start question
How to " drop a pin " for iPhone AND Android users ?
This feature can be a bit unpredictable sending locations to Android with some of them receiving the location and others not ( in actuality they all " receive " the message , just some systems do n't know how to translate the information hence your friends white screen ) . However , you could give something like <URL> a go , since it 's a third party app for both iPhone and Android the messaging systeming is not OS dependent . It has some other distinct advantages but <URL> has a good article aout the location sharing function they added last year .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
I do n't have an exact " developer " answer , but from the usage of app like Facebook or Twitter , it is definitively possible to send a push notification to selected user . Since the main goal of push notification is saving battery , I 'd say deciding in the app if a notification is shown or not is not the smartest way , since you 'll have to send the data to the phone . I would say that ( and that 's where I do n't have hard facts ) Apple keeps an unique ID for every iPhone that you can use on your server as well so that you 'll only have to send to Apple to which phone you want to send the notification to .
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
Is the phone 's lock screen PIN secure enough to be in the repair shop for a few days ? I 'd say no . There are forensic-type applications can that extract your phone data without requiring the screen to be unlocked . It 's fairly easy to backup and then wipe your phone , and later restore it from that backup . Might as well do it and rest comfortably knowing none of your personal data is in the hands of someone else . Besides , you may not get your exact phone back . They may be able to swap it for a new phone or a refurbished phone if they 're an Apple Authorized repair depot . In that case your data may be left on your old phone and sent off to a depot for reconditioning . Who would want that uncertainty ? Backing Up Your Phone Before you wipe your phone to send it in make sure you have a backup ! If you 're using iCloud back up your phone go to Settings - > iCloud - > Storage &amp; Backup and click the Back Up Now button to do a backup . If you 're using iTunes to backup your phone connect to iTunes and do a backup . Wiping Your Phone DOUBLE CHECK YOU 'VE MADE A RECENT BACKUP !!! To wipe the phone go to : Settings - > General - > Reset and click the Erase All Content and Settings button . This will set you back to factory defaults . Send it in for repair . Restoring Your Phone When you get it back it should behave as if it 's a new , never used , iPhone . In this case , after you pick your language , you 'll be asked if you want to set it up as a new phone , restore it from an iCloud backup or restore it from an iTunes backup . Select Restore from iCloud Backup and follow the prompts if you used iCloud to back up your phone . Otherwise select Restore from iTunes Backup and follow the prompts .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
Although there is no official documentation by Apple , you can still get some information by watching iTunes and iOS doing their stuff . This can be done by monitoring log files of both , on the iPhone this can be done over an USB connection . Here 's a couple of what I 've already seen the iPhone doing in the " waiting for xy " sync stages : After copying new media to the iPhone , the media needs to be indexed , e.g. there 's metadata to be processed , thumbnails need to be created etc. . Until that is done , the media ca n't be displayed correctly in the corresponding iPhone apps , so iTunes waits for the iPhone Media Indexer service to complete it 's work . When copying new apps to an iPhone , the packaged - files need to unpack and install , e.g. register in the iPhone 's homescreen , app lists , file extension databases etc , this is done during that stages of sync . The spotlight search might need time to index new files , iTunes waits for this as well ( not always , but sometimes ! ) When iTunes transfers files to an iPhone , it always verifies the file 's contents in several ways , being it archive integrity or hashes that are compared . These processes do need plenty of time , depending on the size of the transferred data , and iTunes waits for successful verification in order to complete the sync . When there are copy failures detected by any of the verification methods , iTunes will copy the files again . Often these processes are not displayed by iTunes , it is done during the " Waiting for items to copy " - processing . iTunes will also wait for copy processes to terminate successfully , there are streams and sockets to close when data is transferred between computers . Although this should happen instantly , sometimes there are failures and the iPhone needs some time . In general , you can say that iTunes utilizes these stages for verification and error correction as well as doing " completional " work . They get extremely useful especially when using WiFi sync , which is much more error-prone than USB . Edit : To view the log files of an iPhone/iPad , no jailbreak is required . The best tool probably is <URL> , a bundle of free open-source software licensed under <URL> . It is capable of handling an iOS device without the need of iTunes , so even on linux machines . Although being desinged for linux machines , it can be run on Mac as well , e.g. by compiling the <URL> , or , even easier , by installing through <URL> . Although I 'm always using it on linux machines , this should work the same way on Mac OS X . You probably need to pair your iPhone first , use the - binary for this . It should find your USB-connected iPhone on it 's own , if it does n't , you can try passing the UUID of your device . After paring succeeded ( it will display a success-message to your terminal interface ) , use the - application to view the log files of your iPhone . It will connect to the - socket of your device automatically , if it does n't , you may pass the UUID again . Then all log messages will get posted to on your computer , e.g. to your terminal output . There is proprietary software as well that allows you to read the logs on your iOS device , but as a command line - and open source-tool should be preferred .
From a window : <URL>
<URL> does exactly that . You can manage places through web interface or the iPhone app . Places marked with a star ( Saved for later ) will be displayed in Saved section in the app : You can rate and review places from the app as well .
As stated by patrix : the personal files of other user 's on the same machine are generally stored in the folder for each user . The permissions on these folders are usually set such that they are private to the individual who owns the files . This means you need to use <URL> to elevate your own access levels in order to see their files . If you are truly an admin , using is something that 's ok , but do so with caution . If you are not an admin then you should n't have the proper privileges to do any of this and your repeated attempts to use are logged in the system access log . To simply list files in another user 's home directory ( let 's call them ) you do : The prefix is POSIX shorthand for " home directory of ... " . To browse freely , you can become that user with like so : This makes you , logged in as and in 's home directory . You can now move around , files , files , etc. as .
One solution would be to use <URL> or <URL> to hold/sync your notes and read them with a simple text editing or note taking app . I use <URL> .
This is not supported by the default calendar app at the moment . An app called <URL> from the App Store might be what you 're looking for . Its listed features include : Works seamlessly together with all iPhone supported calendars ( Google Calendar , CalDAV , Outlook , Exchange , iCal ) . Snooze function with intervals of your choice .
You have two options . The first is to use Terminal to set the folder 's flag . Open Terminal from and type the following command : where is the name of the user 's home folder . This will hide the folder from Finder , but other users could still find it , or change Finder 's preferences to show hidden folders . Alternatively , you could place the home folder for that user in a different location . Open the Users &amp; Groups ( or Accounts ) pane in System Preferences , click the lock to unlock it , right-click on the user , and choose . Then click the Choose button after and find a different location ( you might want to press Shift + Command + . to show hidden folders for this ) . Now , the user 's home will be in a different place so others will have a harder time finding it .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
No . Apple has removed it from the download section of their site as of about January 26 , 2009 . See : <URL> The direct download link in that article now returns a 404 error .
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
There 's no difference besides the storage capacity . As the iPhone does not have an option to extend the memory after purchase , you have to choose the right amount of storage right from the beginning . You can always manage how much space you use by manually choosing which data to sync ( music , photos , movies , apps ) . Generally more available space gives you the freedom of not having to manage your sync settings too much . 16GB should be fine for most people , especially if they are willing to make compromises regarding sync settings . 32GB is good if your like to take lots of photos or have a large music library . 64GB is good if you record HD movies which increase in size very quickly the longer you record .
The reliable way is to get the carrier to unlock it . In the US - this means Verizon 's are sold unlocked in the US whether you have a contract or not . AT&amp;T 's are locked , but they have a <URL> once your contract is fulfilled . Sprint 's <URL> . T-Mobile 's are <URL> when they start selling iPhone . Cheapest depends heavily on your specific contract details and if you want to risk paying a third party to do something the cell carriers do not like . You could always look for a jailbreak and circumvent the lock , but between paying off your contract early or selling your locked phone and buying one that is legitimately unlocked is an easy , and simply about time and money now that unlocked iPhones are mainstream in the US . I suggest dealing locally in selling and buying an iPhone - connect on craigslist or wherever and meet in an Apple store so that you can check the serial number - be safe in a public space , etc. . .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
An OEM dock just popped up in store.apple.com after the 9/10 event : <URL>
end question
start question
Small case for mac book air that will hold charger and mouse ?
The Booq bags generally have tolerances that are too tight . My iPad with the Apple case did n't fit in their messenger bag that was made for it . Since you did n't set a price I would suggest the <URL> case from sfbags.com . I would have bought this bag , but I already had a case for my MBA . I have the version of this case made for the PS Vita and it is an excellent case . There is plenty of room for earbuds , charger , games and extra memory cards . I 'm sure there would be enough room in the MBA version of the case for a charger and cables , and by the pictures probably even the DVD drive if you tote that around .
If it supports the standard USB mouse functionality ( <URL> ) , it should work . Otherwise , you can use <URL> or <URL> . If you have the <URL> installed , you might also see what <URL> says about the device .
I have also suffered with the " Dirty Mouse Ball " problem with the Mighty Mouse . To get it working again , I would hold it upside-down and spin the ball quickly in many directions . This worked the first few times , but later , I found it was not doing the job . I then started using a barely damp microfiber cloth while holding it upside down and rolling the little ball around as much as possible . This seemed to work a little better . Eventually , I found myself having to clean the thing multiple times a week and got tired of it . I replaced it with a Logitech mouse and then later the Magic Mouse and Track pad and I do n't miss the little ball at all . Ultimately , I suggest that you just replace the Might Mouse , even if you have to go with a non-Apple product . Otherwise , I think you will find yourself spending more time fighting the ball than using it .
If you 're looking to check on a system-wide level , then the Server tools that bmike mentioned above might be of more use to you . I do n't have experience with them ; I 'm recommending two tools that are useful for an individual user . ClamXav ( free , http://www.clamxav.com/ ) is based on the ClamAV engine that bmike mentioned . It can be told to scan everything on your hard drive , or just files you tell it to ( e.g. only files downloaded from the web ) . Specific to your needs , from their home page : " Clearly lists infected files " . I presume , but am not certain , that such files include PDF and image files . Virusbarrier ( $ 49.95 , <URL> ) and VirusBarrier Plus ( 99 cents , <URL> ) are both made by Intego . The MAS page claims that this " Finds and repairs Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint documents " and " Finds and eradicates PDF malware " , which seems what you 're looking for . I tried VirusBarrier a couple of years ago , and it seemed pretty decent , but I stopped using it because it was overkill for my purposes . One of those two might be able to sort you out . Note that they both go after Windows and Mac malware , so you need n't worry about sending on malware to a Windows PC if you use one of the above ( in theory , at least ) . If you 're interested , you might also like to look up XProtect . It 's an anti-malware system built into OS X , that looks out for nasty things . It 's not as mature as the two products above ( it debuted in mid-2009 , IIRC ) , but it 's a nice tool to have , nonetheless . As for some of the online services you mentioned , I 've found various pages from the companies about their policy on scanning email . I 've never run into any of these antivirus scanners , so I ca n't comment on their quality . Google has an antivirus scanner in Gmail , as explained on <URL> : Gmail automatically scans every attachment when it 's delivered to you , and again each time you open a message . Attachments you send are also scanned . Checking attachments for viruses protects our users and their information , and prevents the spread of viruses . Similarly , Yahoo! <URL> : Yahoo! Mail automatically scans all incoming and outgoing email attachments for known viruses . We use industry-leading Norton AntiVirus software , so you do n't have to do a thing . Download the attachment and wait for that reassuring message " No Virus Threat Detected . " If a virus is detected , it will be cleaned if possible , and you 'll be given further instructions . I ca n't find anything about scanners built into Windows Live Mail , MobileMe or iCloud . That does n't mean that they do n't exist ; simply that they do n't show up in a Google search . Hope some of this is useful to you :)
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
The physical MagSafe adapter remains unchanged from a pinout perspective ( the shape has altered externally from a T shape to an L shape and back again ) for almost every Macbook except the 2012 Macbook Air and Retina Macbook which use MagSafe 2 ; Adapters are available to connect a MagSafe power supply to these machines , but you can not use a MagSafe 2 adapter to power anything other than the 2012 Air and Retina at present . You need to ensure that you use the correct power rated charger for the Macbooks . Macbook Airs use a 45 watt supply , through to something like 85 watts for Macbook Pros . It 's OK to use a higher rated supply than is required , the charger only supplies what is asked of it , so a Macbook Air on a Pros power supply will only request its 45 watts , not get fried with 85 watts . Conversely , it 's not OK to do the opposite , running a MBP on an Airs power supply will request up to 85 watts of draw on a 45 watt power supply , and burn out the adapter eventually .
Okay , so I found out that there is one option that kind of supports Apple 's Magic Mouse and Magic Trackpad gestures . The <URL> allows you to control your Mac with touch gestures and comes in a wired , USB model . If anyone finds another solution , please post it , because I was really looking for a wired mouse that can do this and would appreciate the input . Thanks again ,
Yes , As it turns out there is not really a better alternative to just pressing and holding the power button until the Mac shuts off . I thought there might have been some kind of a hidden gem like a S.O.S signal that could be signaled via the power button , to tell the computer to shutdown . That is not the case and there is not really a reason for one , due to the relatively low risk for serious damage by performing a hard shutdown with the power button , thanks to the protections built in to the <URL> .
More amps will not mean faster charging . The iPhone ( and any electronic device ) will only take as much current as it requires , and no more . The iPhone will take 1A to charge , and an iPad will take 2.1 A. There 's no harm in using a charger that is capable of providing more current than a device requires , but there 's no benefit either . Providing less current than the device requires will lead to longer charging times , or no charging at all .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
The only legal way to transfer the iLife applications from him to you would be if he had the original iLife installation DVD that used to ship with new Macs . Being that it 's an Air , and does n't have a DVD slot on it , it 's unlikely he still has that media . Unfortunately , you 're stuck with re-buying the iLife applications from the App Store using your own Apple ID . Using his App Store ID to put the software on your Mac and then switching the ID to your account would definitely be on the wrong side of Apple 's terms of service .
As asked and answered on <URL> , there 's an easier way to do this that does n't involve making a new file system in a disk image file : Move your existing file aside , commit that move , then move it back using the case you 'd like it to maintain and commit . Done . Example :
Can I have both a case-insensitive system volume and a case-sensitive volume within an encrypted CoreStorage volume ? Core Storage : can not create a volume within a volume can create a logical volume ( LV ) within a logical volume group ( LVG ) . ... to keep the main system volume case-insensitive ... That 's reasonable . ... to have my home dir be case-sensitive ... Maybe desirable , but please beware : some software for OS X may not work as expected in that environment . I thought first of Adobe , found examples from 2012 and 2013 : <URL> <URL> An example -- OS X 10.9.5 , Mavericks I used Disk Utility to create two partitions from a USB flash drive ( at at the time ) , then erased each of the unencrypted file systems -- and opted to encrypt . For both encryptions I chose the same passphrase that is used to encrypt the FileVault 2 OS X startup volume . The relevant part of output from : Limitations I rebooted the Mac to check whether either logical volume family ( LVF ) was automatically unlocked before loginwindow is launched by launchd . As expected , no automation of that sort . Issues With Mavericks I can find no way to create more than one LV within an LVF . The following articles state that it 's possible to do so : <URL> ( 2011-08-05 ) <URL> ( 2011-08-14 ) <URL> ( 2013-02-25 ) In the Franke article it 's remarkable that the same UUID is used to both ( a ) shrink an existing LV ; and ( b ) create another LV in the same LVF . Unless I 'm missing something , this approach is impossible with Mavericks . For example : Assuming a bug in Core Storage in Mavericks We should review this answer -- maybe add another -- after Yosemite is released . ( I should not expect a fix in Mavericks . )
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
Open System Preferences > Mouse to speed up or slow down the mouse . Go to System Preferences > Trackpad to change trackpad speed . I do n't believe acceleration is native to OSX . I have Kensington Trackball Works installed ( for my kensington trackball ) which has acceleration , and your Logitech Mouse center may have the same . If Logitech Mouse center is System Preferences chances are it will be under " Other " .
Update ( 5/24/2016 ) Salvation is here ! OWC has released <URL> for the MacBook Pro with Retina Display 13 " &amp; 15 " Late 2013 , 2014 , and 2015
I 'm not aware of a USB adapter that directly takes the 4-pin 3.5 mm connector that the Apple headset uses , but you could combine one of the many USB adapters with an adapter cable <URL> . That will convert the 4-pin connector to the separate 3-pin stereo &amp; microphone connectors that are standard on PCs and should work with any USB adapters with an in &amp; out . You will likely lose the volume and clicker controls on the headset .
The <URL> app allowed me to order another case directly after getting my replacement phone . I was determined to do the right thing and wait to see if my original shipment was fulfilled before ordering another one . It seems that my original order has shipped and I can no longer order another case through the app .
I have been following Swype for some time , and the only thing they have officially said was one little peep in Reuters back in June about looking towards iPhone development . In the article they alluded towards a developer running Swype on his iPhone , however no releases or leaks are anywhere to be found . <URL> My guess ... just a guess ... is that they are trying to work around the need to jailbreak your iPhone in order to run it . If you follow the Engadget blog , you 'll be among the first to know . <URL>
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
end question
start question
What are some alternatives to Shazam for iOS ?
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
developers can invite 1,000 testers per application , with different testers for separate apps . Up to 10 apps can be tested at a time , internally or externally .
You should read the big Siracusa 's Lion review in <URL> . The gist of it is , no , every time another program tries to access the file ( e.g. you 're trying to send it in Mail , upload it in safari ) what the other program will get is the current version you 're looking at . Nothing else . See more at this particular <URL>
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
If you 're just looking for a quick signal strength number , option-click on the AirPort icon in the menu bar . Under the connected network you will see several pieces of information : RSSI is your signal strengh in dB . Higher ( closer to 0 ) is better . If you 're looking for noise or the signal strength for multiple access points , I suggest checking out <URL> : <URL>
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
I 've used RoaringApps ' <URL> , which seems fairly comprehensive . However , their servers seem a bit bogged-down at the moment . ( edit - as of July 26 - it 's still very slow to use )
I did figure out the problem ; my router had MAC address filtering on . So , I turned off the MAC address filtering and it works now .
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
According to <URL> , an Apple spokesman stated that the touch-screen iPod Nano does not run iOS .
" Allow Full Access " has nothing to do with using the actual keyboard . The keyboard is accessible for you to use throughout the system regardless of this setting . In short , allowing full access grants the developer of the keyboard additional access to some of your information and gives the developer access to the internet . From the <URL> under " Designing for User Trust " , Allow Full Access does this : Keyboard can access Location Services and Address Book , with user permission Keyboard can send keystrokes and other input events for server-side processing Containing app can provide editing interface for keyboard 's custom autocorrect lexicon Keyboard can employ iCloud to ensure settings and autocorrect lexicon are up to date on all devices Keyboard can participate in Game Center and In-App Purchase The second bullet point is what Apple really wants you to understand . With Allow Full Access a developer COULD send your keystrokes to their server for processing , which might include : analyzing your sentence for grammar analyzing a word for spelling predicting the word you are typing . Apple is highlighting the fact that a developer COULD use your keystrokes for nefarious reasons instead of the legitimate reasons I listed above . It is possible for a developer to record your sensitive information such as credit card number or street address . In my opinion , it is not possible for a developer to write a fully-fledged keyboard extension without requesting full access . Without Full Access I ca n't utilize In-App Purchases , I ca n't sync your preferences using iCloud , I can not even provide a basic auto-correct feature . I just finished developing a keyboard extension for iOS . My keyboard never sends your keystrokes across the internet . I will never see what you have typed . There are no privacy concerns in my opinion , yet you still receive a scary message from Apple when you turn on Allow Full Access . If you have concerns about turning Allow Full Access ON , ask the developer how they are using your data/keystrokes . One additional note , you can not use a custom keyboard to type into a password field . iOS will always use the system keyboard for password fields . Developers that do process your keystrokes will not have access to your passwords , unless you type your passwords into a non-password field .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
You can scrape that information off photos on flickr taken with an iPhone 4S : <URL> Here are a few examples of extremes . The dark end seems to show a max ISO of 800 and max shutter of 1/15 , which several dark photos agreed with , and none of the ten I looked at went further , so here are two examples : <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 Looking at very bright photographs , I saw a few claiming very high shutter speeds ( 1/9259 and 1/2600 ) but none of them matched the same exif format for the shutter speed field as the rest of the iPhone 4S photos I reviewed , suggesting that these fields were modified in post processing . The lowest shutter speed I saw that matched the format of the other 4S exif files was 1/1842 , and the lowest ISO was 64 : <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 This should answer your question for highest and lowest ISO , and highest and lowest shutter speed . Keep in mind I only sampled a few dozen photos on flickr , it 's possible I missed the ends of the ranges . A random sampling from the " interesting " section , showing the mid range of shutter speed and ISO combinations : Shutter speed ISO 0.008 sec ( 1/122 ) 64 0.05 sec ( 1/20 ) 200 0.008 sec ( 1/120 ) 100 0.002 sec ( 1/550 ) 64 0.025 sec ( 1/40 ) 64 0.002 sec ( 1/464 ) 64 0.004 sec ( 1/242 ) 64 0.042 sec ( 1/24 ) 64 0.059 sec ( 1/17 ) 800 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640 0.006 sec ( 1/170 ) 64 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640
Is it mandatory to have an MFi device , to download an app for the Mfi device ? No . For instance you can download the <URL> apps and use them in demo mode without owning or attaching the hardware MFi device they interface with . You keep asking specifically about MFi devices , but there are also a number of non-MFi devices that connect through the headphone jack , such as credit card readers ( square , intuit , and others ) and heart rate monitors ( 60beat . com ) . So far Apple has allowed many of these devices and apps to be developed and sold in the app store , although they prefer people use the MFi program , it 's not always necessary .
That 's not " ticking , " that 's a creak from the flex in the aluminum chassis . The MBP is not a brick of aluminum but a computer inside a hollow shell . While built solid , there is still play in the materials . The sound you 're hearing is likely the case pressing against the RAM , the battery connector , or the metal protector right beside the battery connector ( or perhaps another component inside the machine ) . If you are worried , take it into Apple . But they 'll tell you the same thing .
The best commercial packages of themes for the iWork apps , in my experience , are those from <URL> ( under Design ) They produce themes for both Pages and Keynote , as well as animation and art packs . For free templates , <URL> has a ton of Pages templates , and some decent Numbers templates as well for basic use . <URL> also produces commercial themes , in addition to having some freebies , and an excellent blog and collection of links for other sources of high quality stuff .
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
Most Apple software updates seem to get posted around 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific . Far from a guarantee however , that 's just my approximation based on past experience and a super quick Google to confirm .
end question
start question
How can I repeat a video at slow playback speed ?
You can do this with QuickTime 7 . Grab a copy off the Mac OS X Install DVD . Go Window - > AV Controls and change the playback speed . ( Or something with a similar name ) Then View - > Loop for repeating .
Better than would be to NFS mount your shares over a private network interface running the <URL> . Once mounted , inside the host OS , you 'd rsync in the data with : Or whatever you wanted . Someone already mentioned <URL> and , on its own it wo n't speed up your VirtualBox setup , but it does make doing things like mounting in <URL> much , much easier than doing it by hand . For example , here 's a Vagrantfile that ups <URL> and mounts your Documents directory on your machine via NFS using virtio drivers to on the image . It requires root priveledges to work . You 'll need to add : to your sudoers file via for it to work . Once you 've put that Vagrantfile on disk all you have to do is cd to the directory where you saved it and run and you 're in business . To connect it 's or you can uncomment that line I left in there to run it with a display head . That 's the fastest configuration I know of for host/guest I/O with VirtualBox running Linux as a guest OS .
100 % CPU utilization will not directly be harmful to your laptop . Heat , however , can be . Your MacBook Pro does have several internal temperature sensors that will turn on the internal fan and finally halt the machine should it get too hot . You can see the temperature each sensor is reading by using this free program : <URL> You should still use some type of cooling stand if possible . My 2007 MacBook Pro suffered a broken display from what I believe to be a heat related issue . After heavy use and high CPU utilization the bottom of the display would get very hot . Then , the screen would start to flicker slightly ( but only when the laptop was running hot ) . Eventually , the screen had to be replaced . Using a laptop stand with multiple fans kept my machine running cool enough to prevent the issue from happening again . Also , you do have some control over how much CPU a process gets . For that you can use BeNicer , another free piece of software : <URL>
Try this <URL> or Rename eject.menu in / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu Extras / to something else " eject.menu.bak " restart mac and then rename the file back to original . Not sure if it works but trying doesnt hurt anyone .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
You might find <URL> helpful . <URL> , a free open source product , looks like it is working on this issue . Unfortunately , it is not complete yet . See also this Super User question : <URL>
Thanks to Asmus 's suggestion I found that if you remove your graphic card 's model from the file unspt_gfx_cards you can install AutoCad . So to recap : Copy the . mpkg package out of the DMG file to some place like your Desktop Right click on the package and select ' Show Package Contents ' Browse to Contents/Resources/unspt _ gfx_cards Right click unspt_gfx_cards and open with textedit Remove all lines that contain Intel or GMA ( for your macbook ) and save Double click on the . mpkg to install without hardware restrictions Not sure if you will have any problems running Autocad but at least you should be able to install it .
You can tap on an area of the picture you are taking to adjust the image settings ( including the exposure ) to that area of the image .
Although I never usually have any luck finding them , I used MacWorld 's guide , " <URL> " , and I was able to find the hidden preference : Type the above into Terminal , replacing with the number of seconds you want the banner to last for , and press return . Then , log out and log back in to reload Notification Center .
Yes you can do it using an Active HDMI to MiniDisplay port adaptor like <URL> but as you can see it 's not cheap
Display Recorder from the same author does exactly that . Thanks to Vaccano .
<URL> creates " pseudo-video " devices for lots of different things , so you could display your desktop or any subset of it , or other content you choose . CamTwist 's feature set is likely very similar to Ryan Sharp 's suggestion for ManyCam .
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
Yes you can !!! Open the MPlayerX Preferences window by pressing & #x 2318 ; + , or via the menu MPlayerX & #x 2192 ; Preferences ... Go to the Advanced tab in the Preferences window . In the textfield with the label Extra Options enter , where is the number of times you want to loop .
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
I think I 've fixed my problem . I had 1000 + movies in iPhoto , and since iMovie just treats them as 1 huge " event " it was trying to open an event with 1000 + movies in it . My HD only had ~ 10GB empty . I exported them all out of iPhoto , moved them to an external HD , separated them out into individual folders and imported each folder 1 by 1 as a separate event , keeping the files stored on my external HD . I 've now got my 3 years of video files all imported and have created 3 different projects which I 've taken to completion and posted to Youtube . iMovie is lithe and snappy once again ! So , tips for speeding up iMovie : Free up HD space so you have > 10 ~ 15 % free Make sure your events do n't have too many video files in them ( anything over 50 is getting close to the upper limit it seems ) Consider an external HD , preferably SSD ( You can use multiple drives to hold your " events " . You 're not just limited to your primary HD )
Do you look at the iPhone 3GS at the back when making video call ? Correct . Since the iPhone 3GS has no camera on the side of display , you have to turn it around and talk to the non-display side to have your face show up in a video chat . Less than idea , for certain .
Yes . You just need the right video and audio adapters . Apple sells two adapters to connect your MacBook 's Mini DisplayPort to <URL> or <URL> . Neither of those will include audio , so you 'll also need to get audio cables . Your TV likely includes either optical or composite ( RCA ) jacks for one or more of your DVI or VGA connections . For HDMI , you 'll need a third-party adapter like <URL> . Note that this one does not carry audio either . The most recent 13 " MBP does put audio out over that port , but I 'm not aware of any adapters that can use the audio yet . That same site also sells third-party VGA and DVI adapters that are much cheaper than Apple 's . I ca n't vouch for the quality of the third-party adapters , but I buy most of my cables there , and I 've always had good results .
Just realized , it is on my side and my upload is saturated since I installed Photos - so it is not Apple 's fault : If I am not mistaken , it should be done in about 12-15 days .
end question
start question
Does Avast noticeably affect battery life ?
I tried installing Avast and adding this to crontab : The average CPU use ( for one core ) after about a day was about 1.5 % , but I 'll keep it running for a few more days or weeks . <URL> displays CPU power consumption in Sensors > CPU Package Total . Approximate CPU use and power consumption on my iMac : 5 % : 5W 100 % : 13W 400 % : 25W So 1 percentage point increase in CPU use ( for one core ) from being near-idle might correspond to 1-2 % increase in CPU power consumption . The ratio might be higher for laptops though . And the percentage change in total power consumption depends on the power consumption of displays and other components . Idle power consumptions with display off or at maximum brightness : 11-inch MacBook Air : 4.7 W , 9.0 W 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display : 5.3 W , 17.6 W 21.5-inch iMac : 14.1 W , 41.8 W
I have an IMAP and an Exchange email account on my iPhone 4S and when I only use Exchange my battery drains faster than when only using IMAP . While I have configured IMAP to check for new email every 30 min , I must say I get lots of email in my Exchange account , that probably worsens the drainage . Apple recommends <URL> to " Turn off push mail " , so it is a known fact . How much is battery affected ? I ca n't give you a number , it depens on many factors ( how often data is fetched , number of emails you get , size of the emails you get ) so just test it : disable Gmail IMAP , configure Gmail ActiveSync and compare . -- EDIT -- After reading Michiel 's answer below I was curious and googled " push vs. fetch iphone " and have seen quite a few debates . The outcome tended to be that using push conserves battery life , but some opinions just said " it depends " . My configuration is probably unbalanced and that 's why Exchange uses more battery than IMAP ( which is fetched every 30 min and not the 15 min as I posted in my original answer , now corrected ) . Please take this answer as my personal ( non representative ) experience . In the <URL> above Apple also recommends to " Fetch new data less frequently " . So again , test it and find out for yourself . -- / EDIT --
Usually 4 to 5 hours for me to recharge the 2 AA batteries . Basically I recharge the batteries when its power is lower than 10 % .
I think if the rest of the laptop is still in good condition , then replace it . For one thing , it leaves a bit of a bad impression with a potential buyer . You 're giving them a machine which works only with the plug and if they wants to use it on battery they 'll have to go out and work it out with Apple himself . Personally I 'd expect a pretty hefty price reduction for that . If you replace it on the other hand , you can clearly state so in the description ( eg " battery was recently replaced for $ 120 and should now allow you to work for a full X hours while not plugged in " or whatever ) which actually increases the price and the value of the laptop .
Battery Life <URL> states that the battery of the Macbook Air performs just like the batteries of the Macbook Pro : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . In addition , <URL> reduces the wear and tear on the battery giving it a lifespan of up to 5 years . During this lifespan the batteries will have a fast charge to 80 % of the current battery capacity ( 2-3 hours ) . [ <URL> ] Battery Maintenance Do not leave your Macbook plugged in all the time . The battery juices need to move from time to time . It 's recommended that you charge and discharge the battery at least once per month . Temperature : Keeping your Mac at room temperature ( 22 ° C/72 ° F ) is ideal . Long Term Storage : Apple recommends that you store the battery with a 50 % charge , if you are not planning on using it for at least half a year . The innovation in the design of the battery of the Macbook Air was not about increasing capacity , but about the ability to manufactures them very thin . The batteries of the Macbook Air are <URL> of the Macbook Air .
Here are some tips about the batteries that go inside Apple computers and devices . lithium cells will catch on fire and burn with such intensity that they can ignite almost anything that is combustible if you damage during the replacement . To save space , Apple engineers designed the case of your MacBook to protect the battery - once you open the case , the battery is extremely vulnerable to physical damage or a short circuit . If you lose one tiny metal screw behind the battery and then shut your case it could easily squeeze , crush or puncture a battery cell - setting you up for disaster down the road . that being said , assuming you power off your Mac before you start the replacement , you wo n't lose any data and you probably wo n't damage anything else as long as you are slow and careful . Pay attention to not damage the delicate cables or lose any parts . Be willing to take it to a trained technician if you ca n't be absolutely certain you did the replacement right . dispose of the spent battery properly and insure it is safely protected and packaged so it does n't get punctured and start a fire . Lithium batteries are considered hazardous waste in many places and should it catch on fire , release of very toxic gases will happen . as long as the battery contains the proper parts , there is no break-in procedure whatsoever . You might be on your own if you select an aftermarket part have to do some research with the vendor to be sure you have the correct part .
Nothing . Use it and charge it when it gets low . There are n't any " tricks " to ensuring a healthy battery anymore , but Apple does recommend the following : Be sure to fully charge your portable when you plug it in for the first time , and then run Software Update to ensure you have the latest software . The new Apple notebooks ( 2009 and up ) monitor the health of your battery and charge it accordingly , so there is very little maintenance required anymore . In fact , they no longer even require <URL> . All new Apple notebook batteries are pre-calibrated and ready to use . As for usage trends to ensure longevity , that too is all handled by the OS and you can consult <URL> for more details . To be honest , storing the battery in the fridge or freezer , running it down and then charging it , pulling it out when using AC , or all the other myriad of " tricks " you 'll read about are snake oil . Batteries have a limited life-span , and they start to deplete as soon as they are manufactured . That is the nature of batteries . Using them only exacerbates this phenomenon . There is no magic wand to turn back the hand of time . In closing , Apple has some tips on <URL> . Just follow their recommendations , and enjoy your new computer .
An iPhone ( in working order ) stops charging when it reaches 100 % , even if you leave it plugged in . Or are you perhaps asking about a malfunctioning iPhone , where for some reason this cut-off is not working ?
Yes - triggering a location update does use more battery than if the phone were simply idle and chatting from time to time with cell towers to be ready to receive a notification , email or phone call . No - the high power location drain when you have a GPS mapping program running in the foreground is n't what happens when you use the web site to request one location update . As long as you are not constantly sending a ping noise or managing to hammer the find my phone interface with a non-stop stream of requests , the phone will be quite efficient with the screen off , a quick location update and then it will go back to idle power and consume no more power than if it were sitting in your pocket . Think of the function as this : You log into find my phone ( web or another iOS device ) and the service looks up all your devices and sends one refresh to each . The device gets a notification over either of the connections it always attempts to keep open to Apple via both Wi-Fi and cellular data channels . Apple says - " hey - figure out where you are and then report back " Your phone does it 's location dance as best it can with available GPS , cell tower , and Wi-Fi and then tells Apple where it thinks it might be ( and how accurate a fix it thinks it has achieved ) . Apple says thanks and your phone goes back to being idle ( presumably powering down GPS once not recently requested ) . You then see that location update on your display . Apple caches the data , so you will see the last known location for quite a while before it goes to " location unknown " over a period of hours and the last fix becomes stale .
AFAIK , there 's no special procedure for a new MB/MBP battery . I recently replaced my MBP 's battery myself , and searched Apple support documents for care instructions , but I could n't find anything other than the standard " drain it once in a while . " Btw , my new battery was completely discharged , and it took about 12 hours to fully charge it . I left it on charge overnight and started using the MBP as usual the next day .
Yes , turning on features will use more power . According to <URL> , you can save power by turning off WiFi if you 're not using that feature : Optimize Your Settings Depending on how they are configured , a few features may decrease your iPhone battery life . For example , the frequency with which you retrieve email and the number of email accounts you auto-check can both affect battery life . The tips below apply to an iPhone running iOS 5.0 or later and may help extend your battery life . and more specifically : Turn off Wi-Fi : If you rarely use Wi-Fi , you can turn it off to save power . Go to and set Wi-Fi to . Note that if you frequently use your iPhone to browse the web , battery life may be improved by using Wi-Fi instead of cellular data networks . The same principle is true for all other features ( bluetooth , push email , etc. ) . Turn off what you do n't need to conserve power .
There are slight improvements to the battery capacities of the 5S and 5C over the 5 . iPhone 5 - 1440mAh < - 5.45 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5c - 1508mAh < - 5.73 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5s - 1558mAh < - 5.92 Whr at 3.8 V <URL> In terms of battery life comparison for 5 vs. 5c vs. 5s , they ran some benchmarks in <URL> . In some tasks the 5c/5s are better than the 5 , in others the 5 is better . With the exception of their Wifi browsing test , the new phones are comparable to the 5 , with there being less than an hour difference in battery life . In the Wifi browsing test though , the new phones ran out of juice .57 hours sooner ( 5c ) and 1.3 hours sooner ( 5s ) .
According to <URL> : Use Your iPad Regularly For proper reporting of the battery 's state of charge , be sure to go through at least one charge cycle per month ( charging the battery to 100 % and then completely running it down ) .
All Macs cease charging and let you know this by changing the " orange " LED in the charging cable to " green " when the battery is topped off and you are merely running the Mac - not charging it . The question you ask would be more precisely worded - what harm is it in keeping the battery constantly and always topped off to full ? Your early 2011 13 " MacBook Pro has a lithium ion battery . Luckily , lithium ion batteries have an internal circuit to prevent the battery from being charged over 100 % . There is a very slight chance that something can go wrong with the charging mechanism in the laptop , which would cause the battery to overcharge , but I would n't be concerned with that . Years back , laptop batteries were made from nickel-cadmium or nickel metal hydride . It was recommended that these batteries were regularly fully discharged then fully charged so they 'd continue to hold a full charge , though even following these practices they would eventually lose capacity . Apple <URL> that you fully discharge your battery monthly , and never store your laptop with a charge below 50 % for an extended period of time . In short , it 's perfectly acceptable to leave your laptop plugged in while it 's in use but let it fully discharge once a month for optimal battery health .
When you give an app permission to use your location , in other words enable GPS for it , the app may or may not use it . Some apps use it briefly to get a fix once each time you start the app , some apps do n't use it until you perform a certain action in them , others use it whenever the app is open , and some even continue to use it after you 've closed the app - for instance if you 're doing turn-by-turn directions in the background . To know if an app is actively using the GPS , and thus draining the battery faster than normal , is to look in the status bar next to the clock . If there 's a little white arrow , then an app ( probably the one you 've got open right now ) is actively using the GPS . If you do n't have an app open , and the arrow appears , you can find out which app is using the GPS by going to the app , selecting and going down the list of apps . For each app there 's the app name , and then a selector that determines whether that app is allowed to use the GPS . Scroll down that list and look for a little arrow between the app and the selector . If any app is using the GPS right now , it will show up as an arrow next to the app name . The color and fill of the arrow provide additional information , which you can find out about here : <URL> . That question also gives a screeshot of the screen with an arrow showing , so you can get an idea of what to look for when you go through your list of apps . It 's for the iPad , but the iPhone is very similar in design . If an app is using GPS and you do n't want it to , change the selector to and it will stop using the GPS and draining your battery .
The iPod Touch has a lithium-ion battery , which really does not need to be conditioned like the older battery technologies did . In fact , completely discharging a lithium-ion battery too often can severely shorten its life , so I would n't recommend doing a full discharge too often . And I would n't recommend using something that goes outside the normal voltage range of the battery either . Discharging occasionally , perhaps once every 30 charges , can help to calibrate the battery so that it can given a better indication of run-time . Apple <URL> discharging completely about once a month . Lithium-ion has a limited life-span anyway , typically 300-500 cycles ; and they degrade over time too . How quickly they degrade depends on how hot they 've been stored . ( See <URL> for more information on this )
I had a battery replaced on the day after iPhone 6 launch and the process took 50 minutes door to door . ( Entering the store to leaving ) . We did have a reservation and chose to stay past the " 50 minutes " to let the iCloud restore finish and get key apps from the in store cache / fast internet . I would expect you might get in and out 10 minutes quicker on a less busy day and could wait twice that if several phones were ahead of you to have batteries replaced .
Updating from OS X to Yosemite on Macbook air seems to work OK if you have one Mac partition and one Windows/Bootcamp partition . But ... If you have two windows partitions then the update will cause problems , the new partition setup created by Yosemite update was : One very small partition ( ~ < 200MB ) , probably booting data One Mac partition One Mac recovery tools partition ( ~ 600MB ) One Bootcamp/windows partition The MBR has space for 4 partitions ( ?! ) ; so if you had two windows partitions , the second one ( Fat32 ) might not be visible . In my case Mac could still see it and browse files , but windows 7 seen it as unpartitioned space . I booted with an USB stick ( Minitool Partition wizard free ) , deleted Mac " recovery " partition ( to make room on MBR ) , created that 2nd windows partition from scratch . Did that without changing starting point of Bootcamp partition , otherwise windows might not boot . You are losing the ability to boot into Mac recovery tools . But in worst case scenario you can delete all partitions and boot from network to re-install Mac from scratch . I could n't find a better solution to have two Windows partitions , tried re-installing and re-partitioning around 6 times , windows would fail to boot whenever I touched the bootcamp partition . The tool should also work to re-size the bootcamp patition , as long as starting point remains unchanged .
You should first make a full backup and restore the new iPhone to factory default . Do n't worry about your settings , it 's stored in the backup so you can place it back if you miss something . Or you could try this fix on the iPhone 5 first . Problem resolved ? If the problem is gone you should n't place the back-up back , as something might be damaged inside . You can now manually download every app and add the Wi-Fi settings . Unfortunately : You can not put any part of your back-up back , as it 's damaged somehow . Please Please do n't worry about Wi-Fi settings . You can always ask everyone for their passwords ( at least in my circles ) they 're given out pretty easily . You rather have a fully functional phone and battery rather than all Wi-fi passwords , do n't you ? Please note I did n't add an answer to when restoring to clean default does not fix your issue .
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
end question
start question
Is it possible to detect any certificates not packaged by Apple ?
Chances are you installed the certificate that was required by your employers network . For example at my work place we have 802.1 x authentication on our Wifi , basically users log in with their normal username and passwords instead of a pre-shared Wifi key . When they log in they must accept a certificate from our servers . This does n't necessarily mean that your employer can see your encrypted traffic , however it is very possible . It depends what kind of infrastructure your employer has , i.e. do they have a system that does SSL inspection ? You wo n't know unless someone in IT tells you . You can view the installed certificates through Keychain Access ( Finder -- > Utilities -- > Keychain Access ) . For my 802.1 x Wifi there is a certificate in the ' Certificates ' section at the very bottom of the left column ( not the My Certificates ) . Never-the-less you will be able to see all installed Certificated here .
Use <URL> worked OK for me except for Firefox where it duplicated the book marks each time I used it . Althougn now in Mavericks or because of a later version of Firefox it works
You can use <URL> . This allows you to set the opacity of a window from the Window menu .
In iOS 4.3 there will be Personal Hotspot integrated in firmware . Just wait
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
As far as I 'm aware , if you make a full backup through iTunes , do the upgrade , and restore your data , you will retain the valid apps ' data only .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
There 's no need of backing up the Public Key as it is in the actual Certificate , which can be easily downloaded from the <URL> . When you manually generate a Certificate , you firstly need to generate a Certificate Signing Request through the Keychain Access application . When this is done , both Public and Private keys are generated . The private one is automatically saved into your Mac , whilst the public key is included in the CSR file sent to the Provisioning Authority . One of the items contained in the generated certificate sent back from the Provisioning Authority will be this public key .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
To answer your question : Yes . When you install Xcode 4 ( and its dev tools ) your " old " Xcode folder gets renamed as Developer-old ( provided you already had Xcode 3 installed ) To answer Ricket : Xcode 4 does n't support a few things ( yet ) like Plugins and some features ( like assembly code ) are non existent in Xcode4 ( perhaps yet or never ) so if you rely on some things you might want to keep a copy of Xcode 3 around . If you want to take a look at a good Xcode 4 review ( and see some of the key benefits/drawbacks ) have a look at <URL> .
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
Yes ! It is possible to view the contents of backups . There are several programs you can use , the one I use is <URL> . You can view and extract : Messages Contacts Voicemail ( though I have not tried this ) Call history Notes Safari ( bookmarks and history ) Calendar More if you are willing to dig into folders The free version allows you to view the contents , but has restrictions on extracting them . There is also <URL> which does : Photos Recordings Again , perhaps more This is also a free / paid app , so have a look at what you need . Hope this helps .
It 's not advertised all that well , but Apple still sells the non-Thunderbolt <URL> . As CajunLuke points out , there are other good 27 " displays out there , notably by Dell and HP , just be careful that you 're getting one that is n't low resolution ( 1920x1080 on a 27 " wo n't look great - the good ones are 2560x1440 ) , and has a native Displayport input - as you may be aware , the miniDisplayport to dual-link DVI adapters have some issues .
No . The credit shown in the Mac App Store or iTunes App Stores is not spendable from the retail stores or the online store . There is a physical gift card that can be bought for online store or retail store use , but it 's not the same bucket of funds as the iTunes store gift cards . See <URL> for more details ...
end question
start question
Using memory with a higher MHz rating ?
The short answer is that it will depend on the model of your machine , and the RAM manufacturer you buy from -- but I ca n't tell you any specifics on either . Installing higher MHz RAM is a risk , and here 's why : My 1600 MHz memory did n't pass tests I installed 1600 MHz RAM on my laptop and found that it failed the <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> memory tests . These could have simply been faulty RAM modules , or just not 100 % compatible with my machine . So follow the advice below at your own risk . " But it 's compatible with my Intel processor " Here 's what I 've found : <URL> for my i7 processor ( 2760QM on a Late 2011 MacBook Pro ) says that 1600 MHz DDR3 RAM is compatible . But does that translate for Macs ? Yes <URL> . However , Macs are notoriously picky about RAM , and while 1600 MHz memory might be compatible with Intel , it does n't meant it 'll be compatible with the Apple logic board . So find out if Intel supports it , but that is no guarantee . Costs of 1600 vs. 1333 MHz If the decision between two MHz-ratings of RAM comes down to price , take a look at the <URL> and judge whether it 's worth it . It 's likely that <URL> . Also take into account the risks if it does n't work : you 'll have to return it ( if even possible ) . Is this a false positive ? <URL> in <URL> that 1600 MHz will work because it shows up in " About this Mac " when installed : And then " More Info " brings this up : First , there is the question of whether it will pass memory tests ( see the first section ) . Also , I am unsure on how one can test if it is not being clocked down to 1333 MHz and the full 1600MHz are being used . I am not sure whether showing up there means it works .
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
In Settings -- > Location Services each application that uses location services is listed . In that list any apps that are currently using locations services or have used location services in the last 24 hours includes a little arrow icon . The icons differ based on whether they are currently or recently used location services , and if currently then whether it 's a geofence or regular updates . The icons and description for each icon are included in that settings panel .
A EULA is a contract , not a law . Trouble , if it comes , comes in the form of a lawsuit : " You agreed not to do X ; you did X , harming me , for which I demand $ $ $ as compensation . " That means one party must have been harmed , and would need to know or believe that they have been harmed , and would need make a claim to that effect , and would need to back up that claim , with evidence sufficient to convince a judge ( assuming the other disputes the claim ) . The said party might not know that the EULA had been violated , might not be able to prove a valid contract existed , might not be able to convincingly show harm , or might not feel that it 's worth the trouble to pursue , for example , one person experimenting on their own , vs. a training company running a dozen such VMs off a single user license . How legally binding is a EULA that you have n't actually signed , but was assumed by the licensor based on your having made use of the software ? Here I 'm out of my depth . Shrink-wrap EULAs ( the kind that claim to bind you once you open the package that contains and conceals them ) have been known to have been invalidated . One might conceivably be able to convince a judge that ticking a box that says you agree to some referenced but not necessarily presented terms , does n't constitute agreement . Or not . <URL> ( IANAL , TINLA , etc. )
A faulty sensor could do it . <URL> : " A charge cycle means using all of the battery 's power , but that does n't necessarily mean a single charge . For instance , you could use your notebook for an hour or more one day , using half its power , and then recharge it fully . If you did the same thing the next day , it would count as one charge cycle , not two , so it may take several days to complete a cycle . " Looks like a good case for a visit to the Genius Bar , and perhaps having your battery replaced . I agree it does not seem at all plausible that your cycle count is higher than the days you have owned it .
The second part of that statement " or all flash storage " is universally true . Solid state storage that ships with the current ( 2015 ) lineup of hardware is almost an order of magnitude faster than HDD technology . If you can make a justification that the increased performance is worth the uncharge then a pure SSD storage chain is a first choice/no brainer solution . As for the 1 TB vs 2 TB fusion drive - there could be two items in play : If the SSD component of the Fusion Drive is manufactured as faster than the 1 TB version , that would be a clear win . The page lists the 1 TB flash component as 24 GB of fast flash . The 2 TB drive contains 128GB of fast flash which is 5 times the space for fast file storage . Just common sense . Internal iMac storage is not user serviceable so if you know you are a power user and need 32 GB of RAM , you likely wo n't mind the incremental cost of SSD or larger fusion drive and would statistically be someone that would want more storage in a year according to Apple 's marketing research and experience . I would n't think the sleep image usage would matter on 10.10 or 10.11 for several reasons : The image is not purely based on the size of total RAM . The OS thins the sleep image through memory compression and other virtual memory enhancements . Writing a sleep image file is a large sequential write , which is the one benchmark where a traditional HDD performs quite well as compared to SSD since the drive cache and firmware to write a large chunk of contiguous storage to a spinning drive is quite optimized . SSD really shines for random small IO where the HDD seek times and latency causes large slowdowns .
Here is the result of my conversation with Crucial . Given their quality and reliability as manufacturer and supplier , I personally am tempted to spend a little more and source the upgrade kit directly from them . If any problems then should be easy to have it fixed . [ Mark : Hi Can you tell me if CT3309352 - Crucial and CT2K4G3S1067M are the same part numbers for a Crucial upgrade 8GB kit for the MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " or are these two similar but different units produced by Crucial ? Crucial Agent : When you order by advanced search or by motherboard/system information online , you are shown the " external " part number CT3309352 . The part number that you see on your module is the actual module base part number CT2K4G3S1067M . If you order by advanced search or motherboard/system information , the external part number is included in the packing list with your memory module . The modules are exactly the same . They are the same part . And will work in your MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " . Mark : Thank you . So you are saying depending on the method of search , you will get two different numbers but they are a reference to the identical unit that will be compatible , with above MacBook Pro ? Crucial Agent : For some systems yes . Some times you can look up just by the part number CT2K4G3S1067M and put it in to find it , but it is not always show any results when doing this . Normally only the servers show the actual part number . But this one is listed as compatible for your system and will work . ] So there you go this should help . Cheers Mark
Personally I go with OWC . They are more famous for all Mac related upgrades . Here is the memory upgrade link <URL> Main advantage is you can choose RAM based on your model / make of the year etc. . .
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
Flash controllers generally degrade gracefully , so once a block has failed , it no longer is usable , so you would expect a slow , gradual shrinking of the usable space over time . Once the majority of the blocks start reaching the limit on write cycles ( you need to store different data - not just the same bits to make real change on most flash controllers ) then this reduction of space increases more linearly with time / write cycles . So - it will be quick to not store the entire file , but a much longer time until you ca n't write to 50 % of the drive .
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
You may be able to make use of keyboard combinations by using the ALT or possibly the Windows Key . Example to Copy : Use ALT C or Windows Key C.
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
Those are desktop DIMMs , you want the laptop DIMMs . Try <URL> instead . or <URL> which starts a the Mac search below . 1600 would work , but it would n't be much faster as they would run at the lower frequency , but might have better latency .
You ca n't use slower RAM . In fact I 've had trouble with some manufacture 's RAM even though it met the spec . You need to go to a site that guarantees any new RAM will work in a Macintosh . I did n't think that the original Mac Pro could run Mountain Lion . I 've got a Mac Pro 2.1 , from 2007 , that refuses to allow Mountain Lion to be installed . Did you hack this ?
The Mac mini ( mid 2010 ) is extremely finicky accepting RAM with a faster clock-speed ( some work , some do n't ) . You must use 1066 MHz or buy a pair that is known to be free of issue . For some reason that particular model was <URL> ( many posts on the internet regarding its inability to run under these conditions ) . For what it 's worth , the new Mac mini ( mid 2011 ) do not suffer from the same problem , accepting higher clocked RAM without complaint .
I ca n't say much about preventing this , but there is no need to reboot . Just kill Finder , using Force Quit from the apple menu or in a Terminal window . A new Finder will then be started in the old one 's place .
Here 's how I eventually solved this problem . It took a few steps , and requires some scripting and command line hackery , but it did the trick . Export the pictures you want to update from Aperture to a folder , say Open the album in iPhoto Use this AppleScript to get a list of filenames for the master images Using any text editor , save the script below to and mark it executable ( on the command line ) To use the script , give it the location of the updated pictures , a folder to put backups ( I 'm paranoid of losing data ) and then pipe in the file generated before . For example : If you have n't already , close iPhoto . Then restart it while holding down Option and Command . That should give you a dialog to rebuild the iPhoto . You should only need to rebuild the thumbnails , though you may want to rebuild everything else . <URL> iPhoto will probably take a long time to rebuild the thumbnails , since it will redo all of them . You have a number of albums to do , it 's probably best to update the pictures first , album-by-album , and then rebuild the library . That 's what I did , and it worked pretty well .
end question
start question
Has the Virtual Display screen sharing been removed in Mountain Lion ?
OK , I sussed it out . You can still do it , it 's just that the way you do it is based on context rather than using the appropriate command . Basically , to use the virtual display , you need multiple user accounts on the target machine , and you need an account to be already logged into the target machine such that you can login a 2nd time using the virtual display . Any account you wish to log into obviously needs the associated sharing rights enabled . Then follow the following logic : If no one is logged into the target machine , you will always get the Hardware display showing the normal login screen , when you login from that screen you continue to use the hardware display . If the user you try to login as is already logged in , then it will always switch to that user and continue to use the hardware display If you login with a user who is not already logged in at the hardware display but someone else is ( this is the key , the Hardware display needs to be in use by someone else ) , you get the following message and the ability to use the virtual display . If you want to use the virtual display for privacy reasons , you can not simply switch to it like you could in 10.7 , but you could simply leave the target machine with Guest logged in on the Hardware display to allow you to login as your primary user on the Virtual one .
I 've had the same " need . " I guess we all do sooner or later . Here 's what I did . Card menu > Add Field > Dates . Then select the Date field drop down in the contact and select custom . You can also change the general new contact template in the same Cart menu . I hope this helps .
My suspicion is that the Instagram app was programmed for the older OS and needs an update . You could check their support forums , but it also might be something you just wait out for the next few app updates to post from the vendor . It also could just be server side changes - if your iPad is n't served the complete resolution images , you wo n't have them . ( i.e. the problem might not exist on your device at all ) .
To Remove the Calendar completely . Go to the Mail , Contacts &amp; Calendars Preference in System Preferences select the google mail account and uncheck the Calendars &amp; Reminders To Set the default Calendar for new events . In Calendar the default calendar for new events is controlled in the Preferences . You can set it to Selected Calender to make new events appear for the calendar you have selected or choose a particular calendar
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
Quit Mail , edit the . mailsignature file with a text editor changing the HTML to whatever you like then right click the file in Finder and select " Get Info " then tick the " Locked " checkbox . This prevents Mail from resetting the file to the original version and it uses your version .
You can check the version of Messenger installed by going here : > > > > Version will be displayed next to app icon . And you can check the latest version of Messenger in the App Store by going to its page and check the version . If they are the same , you are good to go . If not , I suggest closing App Store , restarting your iPhone and then checking App Store . It will probably says and you can do so .
AD user @patrix did a great AD blog post on new terminal commands in Mountain Lion . You can find it here : <URL>
This feature seems to now exist in Apple Screen Sharing Version 1.5 ( 481.1 ) Or and then select
There was no DVD for Mountain Lion . Since Lion arrived with the App Store as a digital release , the core OS is not something you re-download from the store . You do n't need to pay to re-download , but you do have to go through the Recovery HD to initiate the download . When you buy an upgrade from Snow Leopard to Lion or an upgrade to Mountain Lion - that installer can be re-downloaded , but when the OS is included with a CPU purchase , you do n't need to have an Apple ID or account to re-download the OS . You just enter recovery mode and run the installer . It downloads the package after verifying eligibility by checking the serial number on the Mac hardware . If you interrupt the process , you can grab the installer from the drive - but it 's not something that the system was designed to deliver to you as a downloadable package . It was designed to download and re-install on an " as-needed " basis without needing an account , a password - just an internet connection and some time to wait for the download .
There are two types of Lion licenses . licenses tied to one mac ( hardware linked license ) licenses tied to one Apple ID ( person linked license ) The former transfers , the latter does not . You can of course hold option when clicking Purchased in the App Store to download another copy of your Lion installer ( or download Lion again onto your mac using recovery ) . The installer would not have asked for your Apple ID if it determined that mac deserved lion due to a hardware linked lion . You could of course install lion the first time on your soon to be sold mac , but the person buying the mac would be " without a paddle " if you had n't prepared them that they might need to pay to reinstall their OS if their mac ever crashes or gets a new hard drive .
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
OK , I sussed it out . You can still do it , it 's just that the way you do it is based on context rather than using the appropriate command . Basically , to use the virtual display , you need multiple user accounts on the target machine , and you need an account to be already logged into the target machine such that you can login a 2nd time using the virtual display . Any account you wish to log into obviously needs the associated sharing rights enabled . Then follow the following logic : If no one is logged into the target machine , you will always get the Hardware display showing the normal login screen , when you login from that screen you continue to use the hardware display . If the user you try to login as is already logged in , then it will always switch to that user and continue to use the hardware display If you login with a user who is not already logged in at the hardware display but someone else is ( this is the key , the Hardware display needs to be in use by someone else ) , you get the following message and the ability to use the virtual display . If you want to use the virtual display for privacy reasons , you can not simply switch to it like you could in 10.7 , but you could simply leave the target machine with Guest logged in on the Hardware display to allow you to login as your primary user on the Virtual one .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
The screen is one of those " live updating " screens like much of iOS ' section has . Like when iTunes Match rolled out , an iTunes Match login form simply appeared in the Music preferences . Or when you go into , how the " Set Up Personal Hotspot " only appears after apparently phoning home to your carrier to determine eligibility . After going to and waiting there for more than a few seconds , eventually the text as seen in this screenshot popped out and informed me of why backups were not taking place . It 's not exactly telling me what has n't been backed up , per the question , but I 'm actually fine with this , because I just wanted to see how much content was not backed up . I would up deciding to delete a previous device 's backup data , and that , along with shutting off camera roll backups ( due to videos ) , freed up enough space for backups to begin working again . Hooray !
To change the default to local just write in a terminal : To change back to iCloud first , type :
From <URL> : Mac to Mac screen sharing , using the username/password , is done in a secure manner . Using a VNC client and the " VNC viewers may control screen with password " is not secure .
end question
start question
What does the mute switch on the iPad do ?
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
Some countries ( notably Japan and South Korea ) have laws requiring camera phones to make audible shutter sounds . I ca n't find a definitive reference for this ( at least not one in English ) , but there are many second-hand references if you Google .
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
StartupSound works for me . It 's true that it is sometimes not totally OK , but if you set different sounds volume , or check-unchech the mute radio button , finally it does the job .
Apple will register a device to anyone who presents it for service . It does n't mean some database does n't still remember to whom it was sold or registered in the past , but in practice it does n't matter since possession is all that matters . As to paying for AppleCare , you should get it in the country where you live if at all possible . That ensures you do n't have to ship the device elsewhere if asked to do so . The plans are customized for the laws of each country - and in some cases , customized for states or provinces as needed within a country . Assuming the device was purchased from the US - you should also be fine buying AppleCare from the US store . Again , the warranty and service are valid worldwide , but in some cases , you will be responsible for shipping it to the country of purchase / AppleCare in cases where local service is not readily available .
<URL> : The Trojan [ FlashBack ] targets a Java vulnerability on Mac OS X . The system is infected after the user is redirected to a compromised bogus site , where JavaScript code causes an applet containing an exploit to load . An executable file is saved on the local machine , which is used to download and run malicious code from a remote location . The malware also switches between various servers for optimised load balancing . Each bot is given a unique ID that is sent to the control server . . The trojan , however , will only infect the user visiting the infected web page , meaning other users on the computer are not infected unless their user accounts have been infected separately , this is due to the UNIX security system . For a lengthier , more technical description , read <URL> .
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
Apple documents the difference between an update and an upgrade as follows : <URL> Updates within each named OS include security , performance and sometimes new features . They are focused on the first two . Upgrade is from Lion to Mountain Lion or Mavericks to Yosemite . These are primarily about large feature introductions and major changes . Sometimes a big change will arrive as an update , but in general you have to purchase ( even if it 's a free redemption ) upgrades whereas updates can be automated with the software update app and or the software update portion of the Mac App Store . Historically , the two were separate , but it 's a bit more confusing now since everything the normal end user sees is in the App Store app . You can see what updates are pending by running the command in terminal and it will only list system updates .
⌘ + ⌥ + ← / ↑ / → / ↓ will let you navigate split panes in the direction of the arrow , i.e. when using ⌘ + D to split panes vertically , ⌘ + ⌥ + ← and ⌘ + ⌥ + → will let you switch between the panes . Note : ⌥ is the [ alt ] key
Both hard links and symbolic links link a path to a destination , however there is a substantial difference you should be aware of : Hard links link a path to a file . This means that if you rename/move the destination file , the hard link follows . Symbolic links link a path to a path . This means if you rename/move the destination file , the link is broken . However , later replacing the file with a different one will make the link work again . Links of both types are made with the ln tool . Hard links are made without any options , whereas symlinks are made with the option . For more information on constructing the command , see : <URL>
The radio frequencies and they respective power are regulated by official sources . In the USA , you will need to go to the FCC web site to get precise numbers for the radio power output . In order to search the <URL> , you will need the FCC ID of the device you want to lookup . All devices that use radio frequency spectrum are required to print their unique FCC ID on a label on the device . It may also be printed on a separate document that accompanies the device . Example for iPhone 4S WiFi radio .
First , the AppleScript that inspects the key state and handles the mic enabling and muting : Note , that the script depends on the <URL> ( and it 's path ) . inspects the state of shift instead of caps lock ( other possibilities are cmd , option , control and caps lock - caps lock , however , means the status of caps lock , not the key state ! ) In the second step we bind the script to a key shortcut . There are many applications that can do this ( some listed in <URL> ) or as an Automator service . ( C&amp;P from Lri 's answer ... ) One more option is to save the script as an Automator service : Open Automator and choose the Service template . Utilities -- Run Shell Script / Run AppleScript . Service receives [ no input ] in [ any application ] . Add the script to the text area and save . Assign a shortcut in System Preferences -- Keyboard -- Keyboard Shortcuts -- Services . So , I assigned opt + shift + M to the script above and it enables the mic , keeping it unmuted as long as I hold shift . The mic is muted again when I release shift .
I am not aware of any manual that contains this information but here is a breakdown , since this is one of the big reasons I got a MacBook originally . The mini display port allows you to add an additional monitor to your MacBook . Support for this is built into the OS directly so you simply connect your external monitor using the correct MD/VGA or MD/HDMI or MD/DVI connector if the monitor does not have a display port and then you can configure how the displays work . This is done under the option in . From the screen shot below you can see I am running a second monitor on my MacBook Pro at the moment and I have set the second monitor to be to the left of the main one by simply dragging it 's rectangle to where I want it . You can also move the menu to a different screen by grabbing the white strip on the primary screen and dragging it to another screen you want it on . Each display can have it 's own separate resolution and even separate backgrounds . The relevant preference panes will automatically show a dialogue on each screen if it supports multiple displays , for example the will show on both screens . You can also choose whether you want to mirror the display or use it as a second screen . In mirror mode it simply mirrors everything on your main display .
end question
start question
How to check the VPN setting created by an app on an iOS device ?
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
I 'm not sure if this sends alerts , but it can monitor up to 250 IP addresses at whatever interval you like . It can display the host , status ( as green/yellow/red ) and ping time . On the app store for $ 1.99 : <URL>
According to this <URL> this is standard for most users . But there is Jailbreak solution with external app called Insomnia <URL> is an iPhone native application that , when enabled , will prevent the iPhone from sleeping , thus overriding its default behavior . This allows background applications to continue to run and WiFi to work long after the screen has been switched off . ( The iPhone 's default behavior is to sleep 30 seconds after the screen has gone off , when not docked and charging that is ) . Downside of this is your cpu etc is still running so battery will go down quickly . There is also a <URL> for Cisco VPN with SBSetting with Jailbreak that might work for non-Cisco software ( as in the built-in VPN ) but as I have n't tested it it 's hard to say :-) It may be that the blog mentions the built-in VPN but I ca n't verify it myself . It 's not clear whether it mentions Cisco app or the built-in VPN ( and just names it Cisco VPN ) .
I 've just checked the <URL> , and there is an option to completely disable the ability to upgrade iOS .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
The iPhone is not completely depleted when the battery " dies . " If you 'll notice , when you try to turn it on when the battery is dead , the screen will come on briefly to tell you the battery is dead -- i.e. , there is still some energy left in the battery . The clock continues to run off of the battery , and takes such a small amount of energy that Apple decided to keep the clock going . Eventually , the battery will completely die ( probably after many days or weeks ) , and the clock will eventually stop keeping time . As Ian C. mentioned , the clock will synchronize when the phone does get plugged in and turned on again , if a network is available .
You can double click the Home Button to see recently run apps and choose the previous one . There is not a hardware or software back button as there is on Android phones . Here is an apple article on <URL> .
In a word ? Nope . The app store provides a couple of facilities for getting applications , but all of them are for the most recent versions . There 's a chance that you may be able to use un-delete software on your iTunes App directory and recover it , if the data space has not already been overwritten . Otherwise , you must preserve IPA 's that iTunes throws into the Trash , else they 're pretty much gone forever . Additionally , to the best of my knowledge , IPA binaries are unique on a downloaded system , for DRM purposes , so I believe you can not simply obtain an archived version from a friend , and send it back into iTunes .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
iTunes Match is a subscription service that allows you to sync your music collection across all devices that you add to the service . Songs are either " matched " or " uploaded " . Matched songs appear much like they do if you have purchased them , in fact if you delete a matched song from your device , the copy you download will be the full DRM-free 256kbps version of that song from iTunes . Without the subscription service , Apple still makes all previous purchases available to you . It knows you have purchased them and allows you to re-download them . In this sense you are getting part of the iTunes Match service but it only works for songs purchased from iTunes . Show All Music does exactly that . It shows all your music whether on the device or in the cloud . Turn it off and you only see items that have been downloaded to your device . This is really handy when you are offline . Nothing worse than trying to use your iPhone to play songs that are still in the cloud when you are in airplane mode . So to answer your question , you need to turn on iTunes Match to be able to see your non-downloaded songs that were not purchased from iTunes or did not " match " songs in the iTunes store . Once you have downloaded everything you can turn iTunes Match off if you like , but every time you turn it on again it " replaces " the music on your device with what is in iTunes Match .
To answer my own question , no , this is n't OS-wide behavior . It turns out one of the Bluetooth printer models we are supporting does in fact re-pair when the iPad is turned off and back on , so it looks like it 's just a limitation of one printer 's hardware .
You can follow the <URL> . The same way works for iPhone , iPod and iPad . The easiest way is to plug your iDevice , open iTunes , click on your device on the left panel of iTunes then click on the serial number . Your UDID will appear :
Inbox → Menu → Settings → account → Action to take when done with a message → Move to bin
In the assistive touch menu you 've to select : device - > more - > screenshot .
By my reading , it does n't . Which rule do you think it violates ? Section 11 covers In-App Purchases , which Amazon 's app does n't use , and which are only required for " content , functionality , or services in an App " . Amazon does n't let you buy anything to extend their app . Amazon 's app also does n't allow purchasing ebooks , which is their only product ( AFAICT ) that might be covered by section 11 . They have a note at the bottom of all ebook pages that says " This mobile application does not currently support Kindle downloads , however you may add the item to your Wish List and purchase it using the browser on your device " . Finally , section 20 explicitly prohibits allowing the user to purchase a lottery ticket , which suggests that there is nothing unacceptable about other real-world purchases . Lots of other apps allow them , too , like eBay .
Yes - triggering a location update does use more battery than if the phone were simply idle and chatting from time to time with cell towers to be ready to receive a notification , email or phone call . No - the high power location drain when you have a GPS mapping program running in the foreground is n't what happens when you use the web site to request one location update . As long as you are not constantly sending a ping noise or managing to hammer the find my phone interface with a non-stop stream of requests , the phone will be quite efficient with the screen off , a quick location update and then it will go back to idle power and consume no more power than if it were sitting in your pocket . Think of the function as this : You log into find my phone ( web or another iOS device ) and the service looks up all your devices and sends one refresh to each . The device gets a notification over either of the connections it always attempts to keep open to Apple via both Wi-Fi and cellular data channels . Apple says - " hey - figure out where you are and then report back " Your phone does it 's location dance as best it can with available GPS , cell tower , and Wi-Fi and then tells Apple where it thinks it might be ( and how accurate a fix it thinks it has achieved ) . Apple says thanks and your phone goes back to being idle ( presumably powering down GPS once not recently requested ) . You then see that location update on your display . Apple caches the data , so you will see the last known location for quite a while before it goes to " location unknown " over a period of hours and the last fix becomes stale .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
From my experience , 3.1.3 is indeed the best version for iPhone 3G , if you do n't want any new or updated app . I 've installed 4.2 on an iPhone 3G and it does become slower , though not so bad . If you put <URL> , you 'll see the 3 outperforming the 4 for most tasks ( other than some native multi-tasking maybe ) . Other than the slightly faster performance , the best iOS for any iDevice is the latest one , like wjlafrance said . Unless it is jailbroken , I ca n't tell what could possibly make iOS 3 slow . On iOS 4 it is only multitasking that can harm the performance AFAIK . Same issue with jailbreaking - gets slow if you install too much stuff running on the background . And an old device will suffer aging impact only on the battery . Hopefully a fresh restore would solve the " sluggish " but I 'm afraid it might not . Anyway you can easily * downgrade without jailbreaking . On 3G , you just * need the <URL> , <URL> and option + click on Restore from iTunes . * It is that simple , but there is more to it and it can become complicated . If you need more details , try <URL> or this another <URL> .
end question
start question
Can Apple Motion export with alpha to bring into iMovie ?
Yes , Motion can export with transparency into iMovie . I have used this exact procedure in the past and can confirm it works great . Using iMovie 's picture in picture with some resizing retains the alpha and lets you overlay whatever you 've exported from Motion into iMovie . The linked question 's answer is from 2011 and things have changed a lot since then , namely the introduction of the ' Advanced Tools ' which include picture in picture ( and have recently been abolished and integrated directly into the workflow ) . This means you do n't have to ' splice ' your video and work on it externally -- it 's all integrated pretty smoothly .
Have a look at <URL> , my new free App for the iPhone . You can manage unlimited different Counters . I intend to update it regularly to add features .
Unfortunately <URL> Best bet is external software OR Final Cut Pro 7 has numerous plugins that reduce noise and grain , but they are all very expensive .
No . Apple has removed it from the download section of their site as of about January 26 , 2009 . See : <URL> The direct download link in that article now returns a 404 error .
There 's no way to turn the touch input off temporarily , but you can prevent the Apple Watch from stopping workouts early . When you start a workout just go to the watch face the way you normally would , the Workout will run in the background and ca n't be stopped until you go back to the app and it stop it yourself . It 's not perfect , as you ca n't see your live progress , but it still works .
⌥ alt/option-click on the volume adjustment to create new keyframes Adjust the volume between these keyframes by dragging .
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
<URL> allows you to AirPlay audio and video from iOS to Windows . It claims to support iOS 9 now also ( note I personally have n't tested the iOS 9 support yet ) . Reflector installs an app that acts as an AirPlay and Google Cast receiver . The app is available for Windows , Mac , Android , or Amazon Fire . Since Reflector supports receiving both AirPlay and Google Cast it can receive audio/video from iOS or Android . It 's from Squirrels , the same company that makes the excellent <URL> app ( which allows you send AirPlay audio and video from Windows and Mac to AirPlay and Google Cast ) .
A quick search gave me two promising applications : Commercial : <URL> Freeware : <URL> I believe that both do what you want .
You can use the " Save as PDF " option in the Print dialog ( drop down is in lower left corner of the dialog window ) .
That 's a catch 22 situation . You want to create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created when you create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created ... If you mean a new Apple ID with an old iCloud email , then no , that 's not possible .
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
After you open the Show Fonts window , you can press Ctrl + F6 to bring focus to the floating Fonts window . To return focus to the window you were in , you can press Ctrl + F4 . On a laptop , you 'll also need to hold Fn when you press the above keyboard shortcuts unless you go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " . After you move focus to the Fonts window , you can press Tab and Shift + Tab to cycle focus through the different columns and the search field .
Apparently not much these days unless you want to play standard definition content or heavily mod the thing . See here for more info on making it into a useful device for that purpose ( Kodi can be configured to stream media from those services you mentioned ) : <URL>
Never forget your little fellow <URL> , sitting in a hard drive near you :) Launch Automator , create a new workflow . Now you need to add two actions : In the " Files &amp; Folders " select Ask for Finder Items and drag it . In the PDFs Category , find " New PDF from Images " and also drag it . Your workflow should look like this : Now read the options for each Action and customize accordingly . Investigate similar actions ( especially in the Files &amp; Folders category ) and perhaps the Photos if you want to transform your images from JPG to something else . In fact , go ahead and look all over automator , there are a lot of interesting things there . :) When you 're satisfied with your Workflow , click " Run " on the top right corner . Watch the magic happens and depending upon the number of items and your CPU power , you might go grab a coffee/tea .
As a workaround , I 've found this : Annotate with Preview or GoodReader . On the iPad , GoodReader can extract the text of annotations , when you select ' view summary ' . This summary can be saved as a txt file . [ Update : GoodReader seems to have removed ' view summary ' in . txt format for some unfathomable reason . A workaround ( at least for me ) is to use the free service , <URL> . You simply select 'em ail summary ' , and the annotations appear in a email message . Send this to your Send to DropBox mail address , and you have a . txt file with your annotations . In may ways , if you use DropBox , this is easier because it cuts out the step of uploading the . txt ] On OS X , I 've downloaded <URL> . I can open an copy of a pdf annotated in Preview or GoodReader , then convert the annotations to . skim format by selecting file > convert notes . Having done this , I can select file > export and there 's an option to export notes as a txt file . If anyone can come up with a more elegant solution , I 'd be very interested to hear it .
The joining clips function in iMovie 10 is located under the " Modify " menu . YouTube video tutorial I made about how to join clips in iMovie 10 : <URL>
The getting started page you posted a link to explains how to create a simple one disk pool . This is the only thing you need to do . Creating a pool will automatically create a file system with the same name as the pool , which is what you call formatting a drive . In your case , you can run from the command line : and you 'll have a new volume named available . If you happen to run software with inconsistent file naming , like Adobe products and possibly Nikon capture , you might want to create a dedicated file system with case insensitivity set using something like :
Open the video file in Quicktime player and then go edit > Trim or command + T and you can trim the video in the editor . Save the video and you 're good to go .
end question
start question
Can I change the clock on the 6th gen Nano to digital instead of analog ?
The 6th gen Nano can now be <URL> which introduced the features from the 7th gen , including 16 watch faces , some of which are digital . Version 1.2 of the iPod nano software brings improved fitness features ( which are better able to detect and track walking or running work outs ) , as well as the new single icon scrolling interface , which replaces the 4 × 4 icon grid . You can switch back to small icons or turn off home screen items altogether from the Settings menu . Last but not least , you 'll get access to all the new iPod nano clock face options .
I could n't find any way of modifying the path , but you can create a folder on your HDD and then symlink it to : Open Applications > Utilities > Terminal . Now you will have to type several commands . Press return after every command for it to execute . When asked , type your password . The snapshots folder has complex permissions . The simplest way to preserve them is to copy the existing folder to the new location on your HDD : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) options are : : archive mode ( recursive ; copy <URL> as symlinks ; preserve permissions , times , owner , group , device files , sockets and fifos ) : output result in human-readable format : verbose , that is , show what the command is doing : preserve <URL> : copy extended attributes like resource forks and ACLs Disable local snapshots ( this will delete and its contents ) : Create symlink : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) Enable local snapshots : Create a local snapshot : If you see a new snapshot dated " now " : you 're done ! If something went wrong or is not working as expected , revert to the original configuration : Disable local snapshots : This will delete the symlink . Should that not be the case , delete it with : Enable local snapshots : Delete alternative snapshot folder on your HDD : ( is a dangerous command that wo n't ask for confirmation before deleting the folder . Make sure the path is correct ! )
No . IPhone will use the cellular connection for push notifications at any time , unless is turned off . Also , if the lock screen is on , then iPhone is connected to the cellular network , not wifi . IPad is always connected to wifi , lock screen or no .
You could either edit property lists that store the setting and reopen the DictationIM process : Or use UI scripting : Both scripts are copied from my answer to <URL> .
I do n't think it 'll work . According to the Apple TV 's <URL> , playing protected content ( which I imagine means the one you 'll get from iTunes rentals and Netflix ) requires <URL> , so using a converter box probably wo n't work . At least the ones I 've found online after doing a quick search specifically say they wo n't work with HDCP .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
The latest Mac models with either Thunderbolt or Mini DisplayPort ca n't directly output composite/S-Video ( older Macs with micro-DVI could do this when using the <URL> ) . Therefore you need a converter box ( powered via USB or separate power supply ) that takes a VGA signal and converts it to composite or S-Video , which can be connected to the TV . You need to get one that can supply the correct video signal for your TV ( PAL/NTSC/SECAM ) , although most will support all of those . <URL> are available in a wide price range - generally the more expensive , the better the quality ( of the signal ) . You will also need a <URL> to get a VGA signal from your Mac ( this also works with the Thunderbolt MBP ) . For the computer with DVI output you will hopefully have a graphics card that can output a VGA signal , in which case you merely need a <URL> . If it outputs only DVI , you 're in trouble , as you 'll need another converter that converts this digital signal to a VGA one . Alternatively you could get a USB graphics card that outputs TV signals directly , although I ca n't seem to find one right now . This would be act like an additional monitor , which may be preferable . In case your TV has SCART inputs ( Europe mostly ) instead of composite/S-video , you 'll also need a <URL> , although this may be included with some of the products mentioned above . The whole setup would look like this :
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
Are you sure that it 's not to be found ? If I look at Preferences → Settings → Keyboard , the checkbox for Use option as meta key is at the bottom . I am on 10.7.1 so it may be something overlooked in the GM of Lion and fixed in the first patch .
Simple answer : Not really . You can , however , enable the " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " option in the Keyboard preference pane : ... and then use <URL> to map F4 to Expose . By doing this , all functions of your current function keys wo n't work and you 'll have to remap all of them using BTT as you like .
In my experience , the cover photo is simply the first photo in the album . When you 're within an album , hit the button in the upper-right corner to manipulate the photos ; then tap and hold a photo until it " inflates , " at which point you can drag it to move it around . You 'll just have to be happy with your album cover being the first photo in the album . ( Edited to clarify the tap-and-hold gesture . )
I ended up testing this myself . Syncing content works Restoring the device works I have n't exhaustively tested everything possible , but I did write up what I have tested in more detail on my blog . <URL>
I just got the iPod Nano 6th generation , and was able to plug it into my <URL> via dock connector without any problems . So , I think the 6th generation iPod dock connector is not different from the 5th generation at all . ( The Altec Lansing IMT325 says on the box that it works with iPod Nano 3rd to 5th generation , which led to my original question . )
You can use the Automator workflows . Choosing PDF on the left and then dragging the action " Set PDF metadata " ( or something similar , my version is in Italian ) on the right part of the Automator window you can put author , title and whatever in one or multiple PDF files . Issues and workarounds : if you update the metadata directly on your PDFs in the iBooks folder it will not update iBooks , so you wo n't see any change . I suggest to copy your PDFs on you desktop , erase the PDFs from iBooks , use Automator to add the metadata and then re-import ( drag and drop is useful here ) the books in your iBooks . I have just finished updating my files , you ca n't go wrong ;)
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
If you can already log in on an account with administrator privileges ( normal OS X account ) and know its login password , you can reset the passwords of other admin accounts in System Preferences > Accounts . If you ca n't , you can reset the passwords of admin accounts in single user mode . See <URL> . If you actually mean the password of the root user , it can be changed from / System/Library/CoreServices / Directory Utility.app / , but you have to be logged in on an admin account and know its login password .
The iPod Nano can be knocked around pretty good and still keep going , but getting them wet is another story . The units have moistures sensors ( much like nearly all of Apple 's handheld line ) are not to be got wet . The phone strap would provide some protection against this , but it does n't make it water resistant or turn the device into an actual wristwatch capable of getting weathered . Washing your hands with the phone attached to your wrist would certainly get water in the unit ( potentially leading to damage and inoperability ) or at the very least , trigger the moisture sensors . An iPod Nano is still an electronic device that should be kept clear of all water and as much perspiration as possible . If the moisture sensor is triggered , your warranty is void . With that said , the units are sealed quite well and would typically only allow water in the headphone jack and the proprietary cable connection port at the bottom ( these are were the moistures sensors are located ) .
Some tool like <URL> might help here , but it 's probably much more than you asked for .
If you launch Archive Utility directly from , you can create <URL> - compressed archives , which can have a higher compression rate than zip compression . However if you 're compressing already compressed files ( like most music and video files ) , you likely wo n't get much space savings , if any . If you want to try however , open up Archive Utility , open the preferences , then change the Use archive format : setting to compressed archive , and create a new archive from the file menu ( ⌘ K ) . This setting only affects archives created when you open the Archive Utility app . Ones created with the Compress option in the Finder 's context menu will still be zip archives .
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
end question
start question
How can I make my iPod Touch home button more responsive ?
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
I can feel the edges of the button on both my black iPhone 4 even when the button is n't depressed - so your description alone does n't necessarily mean there is a defect ( but you should be very happy with your new purchase and it could very well be a defect ) . If you can go to any retail ( cell carrier or Apple ) store and compare your device to others ( or have friends with any iPhone 4 to compare ) it will be very easy for anyone to agree if your phone 's button is different than the rest . No matter where you bought the phone - Apple will exchange it if the hardware is defective at no cost . You also can return a new phone to the seller within 30 days - but getting it in the hands of an Apple tech will be the fastest way to know it 's covered or a defect - or if it 's just a normal variation of the manufacturing process .
I wrote an extensive blog post about this topic a while ago : <URL> Basically , an iPod touch is great as long as you do n't want to use GPS-based location in your app ( you can test general , wifi-based location ) and are only interested in iOS 4 + deployment ( or iOS 5 + if that 's what your iPod is running ) .
You can not at this time . The option to disable 3G no longer exists for the 4S . No word on why Apple disabled the feature . It may be a proactive move to dump old technology as the phone still supports 2G and will switch to the slower network if 3G is not found . There is a rather <URL> regarding this matter on Apple 's forums .
In ( Yeah , a weird place , but hey ho ) you can limit the voice control to music options only , and turn off voice dialling . This does n't disable the long press option , but it does mean that at worst it can annoy you rather than embarrass you ... Note that for Jailbroken devices , there seem to be a number of tweaks and hacks that will disable the function entirely . The following links are from a brief google , and I have n't tested them as I do not jailbreak but they look promising : <URL> <URL>
GPS uses satellites to triangulate your position with great accuracy , however there are other ways to get a fix provided you can triangulate via other means . Apple uses a database of WIFI networks with known locations to help ascertain your location in some instances ( i.e. if you can see WIFI networks A B and E , then you must be approximately located at Z for example ) . Also , using cellular information you can do a similar thing by noting which cells you are able to see and the relative signal strengths you are receiving from them . EDIT : Also , it is possible with a lesser degree of accuracy to estimate your location just by using your IP address . This can be tracked down to a certain extent and while likely not sufficient to be accurate by itself , when you combine this with all the other methods above you can start to get a picture with more accuracy .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
There are several applications for doing this : <URL> Yamipod is a freeware application that works on Windows , OS X , and Linux . It has a simple interface and looks very easy to use . There is a document on how to transfer songs from your iPod to your computer <URL> It is also an iPod manager and an alternative to using iTunes . <URL> Transferpod is avaiable for both Windows and OS X. However , it is not free . It supports the iPod shuffle , the iPod mini , the iPod nano , the iPod classic , the iPod with video , the iPod touch , and the iPhone . Key features : iPod to computer transfer Manage iPod playlists in an easy way Organize entire iPod music/video for your convenience Browse iPod file information in detail Quick search your music and video file on iPod <URL> iPod2iTunes is for Windows . It also is not free . Features include : Connect multiple iPods . Drag and Drop Songs , Playlists or Video back to iTunes . Move entire genres , albums and artists . Keeps your playlists intact . Enhanced searching and grouping of songs . Find duplicate songs within iTunes and remove them quickly . Optimizes iPod storage space . Supports <URL> Support for the latest 6th generation iPods . ( excluding iPod Touch/iPhone )
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
I can add as many phone numbers as I want on the iPhone . When you 're in edit mode in the contact , there 's always a blank line under current phone numbers where you can start typing a new one . If you click on the label of the number , you can select a label ( work , home ) and even a custom label if you scroll to the bottom of the label selection list .
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
Yes . The " location services " work the same way on all iOS devices , while the specifics of how that data is obtained are hidden from the application . This Apple support article might be helpful to you : <URL>
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
If you do n't need any network activity , I would recommend enabling Airplane Mode overnight . Failing that , disable bluetooth and/or wifi if they are unnecessary Disable as much Spotlight search as you can afford to by going to Settings - > General - > Home Button - > Spotlight Search .
No - You have to click on Search and a serach queery will bring up all results accross iTunes . The store page behind newsstand is just a coverpage for the iTunes store . You will find that once you have entereed the store from newsstand you are able to browse and download any iTunes content . It is easier in this case to use iTunes on the desktop of a computer . You can browse in alternate ways by tapping on release date and then sorting by name , most popular or release date . However when you use the iTunes store on an iPad , you have the additional option of filtering results by Category , you can then select Newsstand .
I have n't got my iPod Touch with me but this works on the iPhone if you go to Settings - > General - > Auto-Lock and set it to Never . That should work . Let me know if iPod Touch has removed this . Do n't know why they would have !
You will need to turn on AssistiveTouch prior to needing to call Emergency . Go to and turn it On . This will show a screen overlay of several options , including the home button . ( You can also just tell Siri to turn on AssistiveTouch ) Whenever you need to call Emergency , wake the iPhone the usual way and then tap the AssistiveTouch screen overlay and swipe to bring-up the ability to call Emergency .
end question
start question
In Terminal , how to exit the two fingers history scrolling mode ?
If you want to exit the history scrolling mode and switch to the command output scrolling mode go to the menu . If you want to exit the command output scrolling mode and switch to the history output scrolling mode go to the menu . When you are in history scrolling mode holding allows you to scroll the command output . The reverse is not true . This whole behavior can be disabled in by unchecking Under the checkbox , it 's indicated : When the alternate screen is displayed , send input instead of scrolling the terminal view . Press Shift to temporarily reverse this setting . I still do n't know how the history scrolling mode is sometimes accidentally activated .
According to <URL> , there is no way to turn off burst mode . This can be quite handy for catching just the right shot . However , for those of you that had learned to stabilize your camera by holding down the shutter button instead of tapping it , this can result in a lot of unexpected pictures . This feature appears to be enabled full-time whether you want it or not , so we 'll all need to simply learn to adapt . Or delete . A lot . Here are a couple of alternatives : Tap the shutter button instead of pressing it for long Use third party camera apps
<URL> by John Gruber outlines several possibilities : For OSX : <URL> <URL> For Windows : <URL> On the Mac side , Scroll Reverser looks nice in the menu bar , is free , and works from Tiger to Snow Leopard ( 10.4 - 10.6 ) .
First , you 'll need to install the Terminal Plugin . Run any command from Quicksilver ? Just enter text mode ( by pressing . ) , enter your command and choose either the " Run Text Command in Terminal " action ( opens a new terminal window and runs the command ) or the " Run Command in Shell " action ( runs the command in the background and returns the results to Quicksilver ) Run a script ? Just browse to the script and choose the " Run " or " Run in Terminal [ ... ] " actions .
You can start Firefox directly in a private window , at least two ways , in a Terminal . The first is using the command . In a Terminal , type and press Enter for a synopsis of the command . Note : When passing command line arguments to the application being opened by the command they go with and after the argument . Another way is to use the fully qualified pathname of the Firefox executable , e.g. : See <URL> for additional arguments when starting Firefox from the command line . It 's better to use the command because while the use of the ampersand at the end of the command line will allow the prompt to return in the Terminal nonetheless closing the Terminal will also close Firefox , where it does n't terminate Firefox started with the command when the Terminal is closed .
Whilst it 's not ideal , if it 's that bad you could disable the app bounce notification completely for all apps : To revert , replace with . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
Boot to Recovery HD or internet recovery since the Disk Management Framework is n't loaded in single user mode : If you run into more problems - and and their repair variants might help to get at the underlying error condition on your volume .
In Safari 10.0.1 on macOS Sierra it is quite simple - you have to uncheck View > Always Show Toolbar in Full Screen to hide the toolbar . <URL>
The iPad seems to limit its history to a week , which is presumably an acknowledgement of the limited RAM and storage in comparison to a traditional computer . Adding bookmarks for desired/frequent sites is the only way to make sure they come up easily . There is no practical limit to the number of bookmarks , and you could easily shove all of those bookmarks in a folder you never visit directly .
In add a plist entry to the file such that the key is and the value is . Here is an example : assuming the file does n't exist , use a text editor to save the following code : The full file name and path of the above should be .
Apps which are in the foreground are granted access to the keyboard automatically . Apps which are run by your user account but are not in the foreground require accessibility access to access the keyboard . The list of applications granted access to this is available in System Preferences → Security &amp; Privacy → Accessibility . Here you can add and remove applications to grant and deny access , however some applications may lose functionality . Apps which run as root are not restricted in this way . You will have been required to authorise this before this is permitted . You can check the current list of running root processes in Activity Monitor . Keep in mind there 's no keyboard history maintained -- the apps must be recording it live .
I 'm afraid no such log or history exist . Apparently either restoring a device , as iTunes does not make a backUp of your sample books , or upgrading to the lastest version of iBooks , will make your samples to dissappear .
Continuous scrolling is available for iBooks on iOS but not the Mac . The Mac version of iBooks only allows pagination .
To use a mouse wheel or trackpad to scroll in Terminal.app you 'll need to install <URL> . After installing MouseTerm you 'll need to add to your . vimrc file : If you 're still not able to scroll in elinks it 's possible that it was n't compiled with GPM ( General Purpose Mouse ) support . Since elinks is n't a native application to OS X you probably installed through MacPorts or <URL> . I 'd open the " formula " file for elinks ( by default for Homebrew ) and verify that is n't anywhere to be found . Though your question states you want to do this in Terminal.app I 'd recommend taking a look at <URL> which supports this natively , and has quite a bit more to offer then the stock Terminal app .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
In my experience for Mountain Lion , determining which display is the primary display is usually achieved by dragging the white Menu Bar ( circled in screenshot below ) onto the graphic of another display , thus setting the other display as the primary monitor .
It 's not possible to schedule Airplane Mode unless you have a jailbroken device . If you want to jailbreak your iPhone , there 's a few apps that do this exact thing . This sounds like it would be a good idea so I recommend you let Apple know you want this on their iPhone <URL> page .
How is the PDF compressed ? If it is black and white only , it may be using a compression method that leads to choppy behaviour . I was recently dealing with a product manual that was a black and white only scan . It was compressed using <URL> , and it stuttered enormously when scrolling , even on a top-of-the-line MacBook . I opened the document in Adobe Acrobat , and recompressed it using ZIP , and the scrolling problem went away entirely . If you have Acrobat Pro , the steps I took were : Open the file - > Save As - > " Optimised PDF " - > Change the " Monochrome Images " compression dropdown to " ZIP " - > Ok . It does increase the size of the file ( from 1.2 MB to 3 MB ) , but I can actually skim the document now . I think it mostly boils down to the fact that JBIG2 is compute-intensive , and Most PDF applications do n't render the document much ahead of the current page . If you do n't have Acrobat , and you can post the PDF , I can take a look at it for you .
end question
start question
What screwdriver size is needed for MacBook Pro mid 2012 back cover ?
Yes . The back cover is secured with Philips # 00 screws . Note that is says : The lower case is secured by ten Phillips # 00 screws . You can see the ten screws on the back cover : four each at the top/bottom one each on the left/right
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
To answer your question " Does the 2.8 GHz model come with dual Intel/AMD graphics card or just Intel embedded graphics only ? " , the 2.8 GHz model came both ways . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU was available with either an Intel Iris Pro Graphics only , or with the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics , so you ca n't go by just the CPU . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and only the Intel Iris Pro Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,4 The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,5 So unless the Tech Specs provided by the seller states the Model Identifier as MacBookPro11 ,5 or states it has both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics then you 'll have to ascertain additional information from the seller to determine what Graphics Adapters it has . See <URL> and <URL> as references , as well as the <URL> . I also used information from <URL> to determine and verify my statements .
The Basics : <URL> Time Machine is Apple 's backup solution , included in OS X . An external drive is required . It backs up changed files every hour , and stores as many " snapshots " as it can hold . After the initial full backup , it only stores changes to files , which makes things more efficient , and allows for more granular snapshots . In addition to being able to do a full system restore , you can selectively restore older versions of specific files , which is handy in case you delete or make changes you did n't mean to . Using Time Machine on OS X 10.7 and later also enables " <URL> " , which keeps snapshots of changed files on your main drive when you do n't have your backup drive attached , provided there 's sufficient space . Obviously this does n't help if you have a drive failure , but in the case of accidental deletions , etc. it can be helpful . For more information , Apple 's <URL> article is a good starting point . Online Backup If you 're on the go a lot , you may want to consider an online backup service . <URL> is a popular one , but there 's also <URL> , <URL> and several others . The advantages are not needing an external drive , and having an off-site backup to recover from in the event of something nasty happening to your house . The downside is the monthly cost ( I believe BackBlaze is a flat fee , others have differing schemes based on how much data you back up ) , as well as the time required to back up over the internet . These services only back up data that has changed , so after the initial full backup , things will get faster , but depending on your connection , it could be a bit problematic ( particularly if you 're travelling -- most hotel Wi-Fi I 've used is n't exactly speedy ) . <URL> SuperDuper is a longstanding Mac favourite . It will make a complete clone of your drive to an external drive , which is then bootable and usable exactly like your internal drive . It also has a " smart update " feature , where after the initial clone , it only updates the backup with changed data , to minimize how long backups take . SuperDuper is the best way to get up and running again after a hard drive crash -- you can boot off your backup drive right away and you 'll your full system . <URL> I 'm listing this separately from the other online backup systems because it 's not really a full backup , but it 's definitely worth using . It 's simply a folder that syncs to the Dropbox servers and wherever else you install your Dropbox client . Some limited storage of old versions of files is also included . 2GB is provided free , you can pay if you need more . The best use of Dropbox would be for your current working files . It wo n't store everything , but if you use it for the files you most often need , or those that you 're using lately , you 'll have up to date backups from whenever you have an internet connection . Wrap Up You 'll have to do think about what exact setup suits your needs best . Ideally , a robust backup system would include at least two or three of these options in combination , so that you have multiple fallbacks . For example , you could do a daily or weekly SuperDuper backup , and then use Dropbox or Time Machine to restore the files you 've been working on since your most recent backup . Adding in an online backup service for off-site redundancy will give you some added protection in the event your local backups are lost or destroyed .
I have run Mavericks/Yosemite on a 64 GB SD card and after a clean install , there was about 20-30 GB free . I would say that you could install Yosemite on a 20 GB partition , but I would not recommend anything less than 30 GB .
Apple provides a list of available keyboards here : <URL> Which ones are available depends on where you are located .
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
It depends on how much you care about your warranty . If you want to keep your warranty valid , Apple says you can upgrade your hard drive and your RAM -- and that 's all . To learn how to do it , here are Apple 's user manuals and page references for the current ( mid-2010 ) MacBook Pros : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No . Apple uses special blade SSDs . There are some aftermarket blades made/sold by manufacturers such as OWC . Please pay attention to get the correct blade . They differ from the blades for the MBP 2012 .
I had an old Powerbook G3 that had lost 2 of it 's rubber feet . Instead of trying to replace them with the same ones , I just went to a hardware store and bought the little rubber stick-on feet that you could put on the bottom of furniture or a TV stand or whatever . Cost all of about 99 cents and worked perfectly . They looked something like this :
It is safe to operate the HDD this way . There are many servers that use HDDs vertically . Your main concern , while operating this way , would be the slightly worse cooling . The Twelvesouth guys are saying that they deliver better cooling , but they are comparing it to a closed and put on the table notebook . My experience shows that the best way to keep the notebook cool is to keep the lid open . If I want to use only my external monitor , I close it , wake it with the external keyboard/mouse and then reopen the lid ( only the external monitor works and the cooling is best ) . Note that if you 're not doing CPU/GPU heavy things ( gaming , transcoding movies ) , you 'll be ok .
No , you do n't need a backup any more . iTunes Match stores nothing in the Cloud , it activates your songs in the iTunes Store , and only the songs iTunes does n't have are uploaded to the Apple Server . But if your HDD suffers damage , you have to download all your 50 GB again .
If a unibody Mac is wobbly , I 'd have it serviced sooner rather than later . The tolerances inside are crazy tight in some cases , so a warp could cause subsequent damage to sensitive and costly parts . A trained technician can tell at a glance if the damage was external or due to manufacturing issues . Now , that being said , I 've seen dozens of Macs where people reported they were off and most were the table it sat upon , and not a bend in the unibody frame of the Mac . You can test by measuring how many sheets of printer paper fit under the leg ( s ) that has ( have ) a gap . Then rotate the Mac 1/3 of a turn and repeat the measurement . Then take it to a second flat surface and do the measurement one last time if you 're not convinced that it 's the frame instead of the surface that is off-level . Any wobble that 's less than three sheets of paper is probably nothing to worry about , but what if you needed a logic board repair 10 months down the road and today , your Mac is bent out of tolerance and you were denied warranty coverage since you did n't report the bend until then ? Only by getting it checked will you know if yours was out of tolerance and have a service record to point to in case of a warranty repair question later .
In my experience I would have to say the glossy . Even though the resolutions are the same , I really think that the glossy has much better color reproductions and looks more natural . The anti-glare tends to dull the colors , making it more difficult to judge when making adjustments . In fact , both my wife and I went with the glossy earlier this year for exactly this reason ( photo editing ) . She has a lot more experience with photoshop than I , and she was blown away by the difference in color between the two .
You can run only 2 external monitors plus a third via AppleTV ! If you want you can also run the MacBook Pro LCD , achieving in this way the 4 monitors configuration . This answer comes from personal experience and Apple technical details . I 've the same model and I 've tested all the possible combinations , also trying passive and active DVI connections .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
<URL> to manually create the Recovery HD partition , but it seems complicated for a novice user . If you do n't feel sure about your self into doing this , then I suggest you to re-install Lion .
Yes . The back cover is secured with Philips # 00 screws . Note that is says : The lower case is secured by ten Phillips # 00 screws . You can see the ten screws on the back cover : four each at the top/bottom one each on the left/right
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
end question
start question
Move external HD to a new drive , but have Time Machine think it 's the same ?
Instead of using the finder to copy your files - use a program like ' <URL> ' or ' <URL> ' . This will get you the closest to the two drives being exactly the same . However , I should warn you that when I did this myself , I could not get Time Machine to treat the new drive as if it were the old drive . It insisted on keeping a backup of it as if it were a new drive . ( however , in my case this was the OS internal drive and not an external data drive ) In the end I decided that it was OK that Time Machine did n't know it was the same drive , as I now had two copies of the data ( before time machine even backed up ) from the original flaky drive , and the new drive . I just had time machine back up the drive as if it were brand new . I have n't had any regrets about it . Hope this helps .
Time Machine allows you to backup multiple macs to one drive . You just plug it in , set it up , and you 're good . If you look at the file system , you can see separate backups for both computers . At our home we currently do this with a Mac Mini and a MacBook . The Mac Mini is always plugged in , and the MacBook gets updated every couple weeks . We use a 1.5 TB drive from Western Digital . Given your description , I think this solution with your 2TB drive should work well for you . The data backed up by both macs will not be the same , as no matter how hard you try , both computers will wind up having subtile differences , so the data wo n't be " exactly " the same . Backing up only one system does n't seem ideal to me , but you can restore a MacBook from a Mac Mini backup . It works fine . Also , you realize that the drive must be connected for you to access the photos and music that you have stored there . You 'll have to factor that into your storage solution .
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
I could n't find any way of modifying the path , but you can create a folder on your HDD and then symlink it to : Open Applications > Utilities > Terminal . Now you will have to type several commands . Press return after every command for it to execute . When asked , type your password . The snapshots folder has complex permissions . The simplest way to preserve them is to copy the existing folder to the new location on your HDD : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) options are : : archive mode ( recursive ; copy <URL> as symlinks ; preserve permissions , times , owner , group , device files , sockets and fifos ) : output result in human-readable format : verbose , that is , show what the command is doing : preserve <URL> : copy extended attributes like resource forks and ACLs Disable local snapshots ( this will delete and its contents ) : Create symlink : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) Enable local snapshots : Create a local snapshot : If you see a new snapshot dated " now " : you 're done ! If something went wrong or is not working as expected , revert to the original configuration : Disable local snapshots : This will delete the symlink . Should that not be the case , delete it with : Enable local snapshots : Delete alternative snapshot folder on your HDD : ( is a dangerous command that wo n't ask for confirmation before deleting the folder . Make sure the path is correct ! )
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
In a nutshell : No , you ca n't . A backup is not a synchronisation solution so there is always a 1:1 relationship between your main drive ( s ) and your backup . You can use Time Machine to backup multiple computers to the same network drive , but the backups will always end up as separate bundles . To transfer applications/data from one Mac to another once , have a look at Migration Assistant ( ) . To share data with ongoing updates from several machines , consider defining remote access/folder sharing on a master drive or look into .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
First , I put both the new and old drive into a PC of mine , and loaded up an Ubuntu LiveCD . At this point , my old drive is showing up as / dev/sde and new drive is / dev/sdf ( WARNING : be sure to update the below commands with your device assignments or you can easily ERASE all your data ) . does n't work on the drive because it is a GPT partition table ( ? ) , and so I use instead . I forgot to mention in my question , the drives are of different sizes ( 500gb was old , 128gb is new ) , so I could n't just clone the entire drive . Instead , I recreated the partitions with and copied the MBR over . I most likely went about creating the MBR ( master boot record ) on the new drive completely wrong , but this way worked for me : ( the reason was the first 39 sectors were not part of a partition ) Next , I opened with which there was a problem : the MBR I copied over brought the old drive 's partition table &amp; its sector information ( i.e. new drive thought it was 500gb ) . So I used the " repair " option in as it recommended , deleted partitions # 2 &amp; # 3 , and saved the table . At this point , if I went back into , the disk showed a MBR , and no longer had errors . Next , I created the other two partitions , being extra careful to setup the sector size exactly as the old disk had ( for the # 1 EFI partition and the # 3 Recovery HD partition that is ) . For # 2 , I just did the math , and created the disk accordingly ) . Finally , I used to copy partition # 1 ( " EFI System Partition " ) and # 3 ( " Recovery HD " ) over from the old drive : When I put the new drive in my MBP , I held Command + R to get into the Mac OS X Utilities , at which point I erased my main partition ( at first , the disk was n't listed when I went to install Lion -- probably since I just created the partition and did n't format it ) . I formatted it to the recommended file system ( Journaled -- I forget how they phrased it ) . OS X Lion is currently installing , and seems to be okay . I 'll post back if I get any oddness . Note : mentioned in its help section that it is probably best to use a Mac disk utility if the GPT drive is being use on a mac , so take my solution with a grain of salt . ( I think fdisk says the same warning about NTFS and FAT , but I 've never had a problem with using fdisk/linux to create/format/etc on that end ) .
Boot into the Recovery HD by holding ⌘ R on boot and use Disk Utility on there . This way you can guarantee the disk is not being accessed and can be unmounted successfully .
<URL> may do the trick . Designed to extend the port in bulky cases , it features a MicroUSB port on the side to charge with older accessories that do n't support charging . MicroUSB should also support an iPad charge , though it may be very slow . See <URL> for someone saying they can charge their iPad with a MicroUSB adapter ( admittedly officially supplied by Apple , but the point is the protocol and cable can handle it ) . Worst case it will say " not charging " and will charge in sleep , and when not charging the drain will at least be significantly slowed . You will probably need to plug the microUSB adapter into a high power USB port -- ideally the iPad 10W charger itself . I ca n't guarantee this would work but , were I in your situation , I 'd give it a shot and let us know . You could always return the adapter if it did n't suit your needs . Good luck !
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
I ended up following the instructions in the article I linked to in my original post to move my Time Machine backups to a new drive . It took 28 hours to transfer 1.9 TB of backups . I then ran Disk Utility " Verify Disk " on it and it was good . So , the errors did not transfer over . So now , I can just repartition the old drive to get rid of all the errors , which I will do after a few days of ensuring that this copy of my backups is indeed good . I later tested the transferred backup by reformatting my iMac and restoring from the TM backup , and it worked fine ( I 'm on it now ) .
I realize you tagged this as a Snow Leopard question , but if you upgrade to Lion , the new command-line utility will let you compare backups :
You could set up something like this ( Make sure that your iTunes Library File ( iTunes Music Library.xml ) is on your mac , not on your NAS ) : Create a playlist " On the go " Use <URL> to move the files in the playlist from your NAS ( iTunes media location ) to your mac . On the go , with no connection to your NAS : iTunes will tell you that the files are not available when you click to play , click " search " and select the folder you ´ ve synced the files to . When you add new music on the go , iTunes will copy that to the default location ( / music/iTunes / ) on your mac . When you have access to your NAS again : Check that the iTunes Media Location is your NAS ( Settings > advanced ) and click File > Media Library > Organise Media Library . All Files you added while on the go will be copied to your NAS . Delete the Files in your local iTunes Media Folder .
I have n't found any documentation for this feature yet , so I do n't have any specific answers for your questions about interactions with external Time Machine drives . However , I did do some playing around with the feature while using my laptop on battery . The first thing I noticed is that local snapshots were not enabled by default -- for me , at least . I know that because " entering " Time Machine while my backup drive was detached resulted in the usual error message -- until I executed the following from a command line : After I did this , a hidden volume called was created ( in ) and I was able to " enter " Time Machine . ( Perhaps local snapshots were n't enabled on my machine because I have less than 10 % free disk space ? ) Unfortunately , the feature seems a little half-baked . I tried the following , with pretty unsatisfactory results : Created a new folder , . Forced a new snapshot by running . Verified that a new snapshot was created by looking in . Deleted the folder . Entered Time Machine and browsed the backups/snapshots . The folder was not there in any of the backups . Update : I installed Lion on a second Mac , and without any explicit action on my part , this Mac has a volume . And restoring deleted files from a local snapshot works on this Mac .
macOS Sierra still supports multiple simultaneous connected users . In the example below Sierra is running in a VM and admin is logged in . user is a remote screen sharing session from the VM host machine ( 10.9.5 ) -- an iMac -- and root is a remote session from a MacBook Pro ( 10.11.6 ) : <URL>
In order to create a Time Machine backup to an unsupported drive ( pretty much anything that 's not formatted HFS + ) you need to run the following Terminal command : Your share will now show up as a valid Time Machine destination in the Time Machine Preference Pane . Time Machine will then create a disk image on that drive that will act just like a HFS + drive for Time Machines purposes ( hard linking , etc. ) . One advantage of using a disk image over using the entire drive is that you can limit the size it will grow to of the disk image using Disk Utility . Be sure to check Louis Gerbarg 's <URL> as well for why it 's unsupported and you have to jump through a hoop to enable it .
[ I 'm answering for anybody ending up here , as the original OP most probably is no more interested . I still refer to his problem description . ] I tried using Testdisk 6.13 ( latest stable release ) and it worked like a breeze for both NTFS and HFS + . I had the luxury of an empty HFS + partition , so I just removed it and recovered it using Testdisk - it was rather fast . I followed the following tutorials : <URL> <URL> If you indeed just removed one partition , it should be fast . Otherwise , it might take more time , but probably waiting is the most sensible option . But if you 're really impatient ( as I am ) and you know very well what you 're doing , you might want to read on . A ( dangerous ) tip to speedup Testdisk from my own experience If the partition entry is just removed , Testdisk will look for the start of the partition in sensible positions ( by default , at the start of every cylinder , since partitions should usually be cylinder-aligned ) , ignoring the existing partition table . Once it thinks it found a partition and you confirm its guess , it will skip searching inside the partition . If there is a lot of free space ( without a filesystem ) before the partition , this might be very slow . So I could speed up search a lot by creating a filesystem in an empty partition before the missing one , so that Testdisk would skip that space . However I knew perfectly where to create this filesystem , especially because it did not border with the lost partition . Otherwise , creating such a filesystem can easily destroy the wrong data - hence only attempt this if you know very well what you 're doing .
Apple tried encrypting each user 's files in FileVault ( 1 ) and did away with that when FileVault 2 arrived . The easy / recommended way to do this is make no user an admin so that they can not get around the prohibition to look at other user files . Also , you will have to physically secure the backup drive or trust that no one breaks the policy to not access that drive . One easy thing you could do is have each Mac encrypt the backups by ticking that switch to prevent some users from seeing files from another computer but hat wo n't prevent same computer users that are admin and know what to type . The downside there is for several computers managing the passwords becomes onerous to a less than ideal step up in privacy . I would recommend you set up storage on a Mac mini server and have it serve up time machine to each Mac so that you can control access better than using TimeCapsule . The performance will go up substantially along with the cost . The setup is fairly easy and there are inexpensive books to guide you if needed . AppleCare also supports server so hat is extremely inexpensive for three years of phone support for enterprise caliber support .
end question
start question
Is it possible to only run one application as non-retina whereas everything else is retina ?
Select Netbeans in Finder , right click and press " Get Info " ( or press Cmd ⌘ - I on the keyboard ) . In the window that pops up , check " Open in Low Resolution " .
You could do a clean install youself after formatting the disk . You will end up with exact the same result after doing this . Why the format , you ask ? You wo n't have any Mountain Lion files on your system . Returning to the place you bought it from is as easy , you say ? Returning the device to the store does not make any difference except spending ( more ) time and probably pay gas for the car . If you let them do the update , they will just click the icon in the AppStore resulting in the same result as doing it yourself . ( This does not count for an official Apple Retail Store , but it does ( at least in my country ) for the premium resellers ) Official Apple Retail Store If you have an official Apple Store , it comes as free service to get the OS X re-installed . The only difference that would really help you out is getting a newer replacement from the store , with Mavericks pre-installed . I doubt they will replace it as the device is n't broken and can not be returned for RMA .
There 's no built in function afaik . However - even if you manage to hide the menu bar via terminal magic ( do n't know if there is ) you will still face the issue that windows ca n't lap over the monitor ( since windows ca n't lap between spaces ) , you can only move the complete window to one space/monitor or the other
Instead of your specific recent documents search , you might also like this alternative : This adds a recent items stacks to your Dock that has customizabile viewing options ( grid/fan/list / automatic ) like one is used to . The right-click menu gives you the option to choose between recent applications/documents/servers and favorite volumes/items .
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
You need to drag a tab - Safari wo n't let you drag an entire window into another one . You can hit ⌘ T to create a new empty tab ( thus making the tab interface visible ) , then drag your original tab to the other window .
I would try a local Apple Store or Mac repair shop . There 's a good chance they have a few dead keyboards laying around that they 'd be willing to give you a replacement key from .
Fire . Unfortunately that would seem to be at odds with Amazon 's return policy . If Disk Utility ca n't see the drive , it 's unlikely you 'll be able to access it to overwrite anything ( and overwriting on SSDs can be tricky in any event ) . Additionally , because the drive in the rMBP is a proprietary form factor , it 's difficult to take it out and try to access it from another computer ( which might not help any way ) . There may be adapters made in the future , but I 'm not aware of any for sale at the moment . The best preventative measure for this would be to employ some form of whole drive encryption , like Apple 's <URL> . That way even if someone is able to read the data off the drive , it wo n't be useable unless they have your encryption password .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
Check out the command . You can get detailed information about its use by reading its man entry An in-depth article on the command is <URL> .
Yes . Sign up with apple for their custom B2B store and you can sell apps to only the clients you approve . Your clients will sign up for VPP and you 'll need to set things up when you upload your app to the App Store . <URL> For the administrative hassle , you get the ability to sell purchase orders , set custom pricing , negotiate custom contract directly with your customers and have Apple still do the app review , the QA and app distribution for you . Alternatively , your clients can set up a MDM and custom App Store and you can follow Apple 's instructions for app distribution outside the App Store .
Note that that article was based on the incorrect rumour of a 1704x960 display . The original iPhone display before the 4 had a pixel density of 163 ppi , the old retina displays doubled both horizontal and vertical resolutions to have a pixel density of 326 ppi . To keep the interfaces of apps without retina support the same size , each old size pixel is represented as 4 retina size pixels , in a 2x2 square . The iPhone 5 maintained the same pixel density , but got larger in one dimension , and what the article is talking about was the hypothesis that the iPhone 6 would have the same aspect ratio as the 5 , but increasing the resolution in each direction by 1/2 in a 1704x960 display . Assuming the display was the same physical size as the iPhone 5 , that would give a pixel density 3 times that of the original iPhones , thus " 3x " . So assuming one had ancient assets from a 1x display , a 3x display would need to use a 3x3 grid of its pixels per single asset pixel to keep the same size . The article is just showing that unlike the jump from the original assets to retina assets , the quality of interpolating assets from 2x to 3x is n't anywhere near as bad as from 1x to 2x as the resolution change is smaller . As it turns out , the actual specs of the 6 and 6 Plus are completely different . The 6 has the same pixel density as the 5 but the screen is a bit bigger . The 6 Plus is both larger and somewhat higher density , though not what " 3x " would imply . I 'm not sure how the new phones would handle old assets . Neither of them are related by a simple ratio like the move from the old iPhone to retina . The aspect ratios are almost the same though , so I 'm guessing old apps will default to filling the screen with some kind of interpolation . update : I just found a relevant post here : <URL> it seems that the way this is going to be handled on the 6 Plus is to use 3x assets which are then downscaled for the screen .
Simply download the IPSW of the final build of iOS 8.1 from developer.apple.com , connect your device to iTunes , alt-click the Update button and select your IPSW . No data will be lost and your device will be updated .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
There are several complicated and time-limited things that are causing apps like Tweetbot to very likely get all shut down by Twitter in the near future . My impression is the high price of <URL> not only reflects the high cost that the developers spent to make such a complicated and design intensive app , but also to discourage too many people from " trying " it out as well as a calculation that they need to make their investment back sooner rather than later due to the uncertainty of being dependent on Twitter 's API rule changes . Twitter is in the process of shutting down all third party apps that replicate what you see at <URL> in terms of showing you the timeline . <URL> In a nutshell - in the last 12 months , Twitter has been telling developers to not make apps like Tweetbot since they <URL> and the 100,000 user token limit is really making it impossible for a team of talented professionals to recoup their costs without charging for an app since you need way more than 100,000 users to make money on data or advertising . Twitter wants to make money , developers want to make money , so at the moment the development of great , free twitter apps is n't exactly a hotbed of innovation in 2012 like it was in the past . Many in the development community had assumed that Twitter would bend the rules when their app was n't ready , but with the Windows 8 release , they shut down the most popular client when it hit 100,000 user-tokens even though Twitter does n't even have a windows 8 client ( perhaps yet ) . When that happened , I imagine a lot of projects are being dropped or at least halted . Not only is Twitter putting hard limits on third party app growth , it also is getting more and more exacting in telling these devs <URL> ( with the implied threat that they will shut down those apps if they fail to comply to Twitter 's exact design standards which include serving all promotional content ) So , now that a brief back story is complete , here is your answer : The following OS X twitter clients have been viewed to broadly and/or fully support retina display Macs : <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> Both <URL> and <URL> have free downloads so you can try them both before buying . Check all of them as one is on sale now for half price and prices can change over time . All of the above render text with great precision and have all or many of the app 's graphics in retina . Of course the twitter stream has many non-retina people thumbnails , etc. . .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
An alternative method is to use Safari 's built-in " Reopen All Windows from Last Session " feature :
This can now be accomplished very easily in iOS 7 . ( n.b. . The following assumes that you have already setup your account on the iOS device . These steps described are for a generic IMAP account . Also , when ALL CAPS are used below , it is to reflect how Apple has it listed in iOS 7 . ) Launch the ' Settings ' app on your iOS device Scroll down and then tap on " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " Tap on the email account you want to configure . Tap on the ' Account ' line with the at the top of the next screen On the ' IMAP ACCOUNT INFORMATION ' screen , scroll all the way down until you see ' Advanced ' and tap on it Now you will see a ' MAILBOX BEHAVIORS ' screen , showing you which mailboxes are used for Drafts , Sent , Deleted , and Archive mailboxes . Important : Tap on the ' Archive Mailbox ' line and verify that you have chosen the correct folder on the server where you want messages to be saved . Once you have verified that the Archive Mailbox points to where you want it to go , look for the ' MOVE DISCARDED MESSAGES INTO ' section , and tap ' Archive Mailbox ' ( instead of ' Deleted Mailbox ' ) Important : These changes will not be saved until you properly exit the configuration screen . To do this , tap the ' Account button near the top of the ' Advanced ' screen . When you get back to the ' Account ' screen , tap ' Done ' at the top-right corner . If you 'd like a step-by-step guide with screenshots , I have created one and made it available at : <URL>
FileMerge 2.8 , which ships with Xcode 5.0.1 links to frameworks that are located inside of the Xcode.app bundle . Shared libraries that are used by FileMerge can be displayed by performing the command : The output of this command indicates that FileMerge needs to use the DevToolsInterface , DevToolsCore , and DevToolsFoundation frameworks . : The prefix indicates that <URL> to search for frameworks that are being referenced . Specifically , FileMerge contains in its run path list . When located inside of the Xcode.app bundle , those frameworks are right where FileMerge expects them to be . However , if you copy FileMerge out of the Xcode.app bundle , FileMerge will crash upon launch . This occurs because the referenced frameworks ( referenced above ) are not in the run path list , which causes to exit with an error of . The reason it can not find those referenced frameworks is that a folder at the relative path does not exist , and the frameworks do not exist in any other folders listed in the run path . To use FileMerge without the Xcode app installed , you have a couple of options : Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to one of the folders referenced in the run path list ( or are probably a couple of the best choices ) . Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to be at relative to the FileMerge app ( e.g. , if FileMerge is at , copy the folder to Edit The above answer allows FileMerge to launch , but the application will terminate when you actually attempt to compare files . Apparently the application is looking for platform information at the path . This means that it is necessary to copy from to ( relative to FileMerge.app ) . Here are some steps that could be used to copy FileMerge to a folder at :
end question
start question
How do I change the PIN on an iPhone ?
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
Check in the menubar - > View - > Previous Document/Next Document . The shortcut for Previous Document seems to be altcmd [ and for Next Document altcmd ] on an US-keyboard . On my ( german ) keyboard I use altcmd5 and altcmd6 though .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
Any Mac that has Firewire 800 , including the 13-inch MacBook Pro , has the 9-pin connector . You will need a 6-pin to 9-pin cable .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
It 's looking like a bug . On the phone , if I have a contact that already has a first and last name entered , there is still an option to add a further first and last name field . If I add and fill in the fields , then view the contact in iCloud.com when it has synced , it shows the phonetic first and last names as already in use , with the details I entered . If I remove the additional fields , and then try to add them back using the phonetic first and last names fields which are available on the website version , then sync back they sync to the additional first/last name fields as originally shown . So , in short it looks like they forgot to include the word " phonetic " on iOS5 running on ( at least ) iPhone 4 , the fields are there , and they sync correctly , they just do not show properly .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
This is done the same way with external or internal drives . Start your Disk Utility ( Applications - > Utilities - > Disk Utility ) . In the left pane , select the disk for which you wish to change the partition table ( select the disk , not one of its partitions , disks are at the " top levels " in the tree view in the left pane ) . In the right pane , select the " Partition " tab . You must repartition your drive in order to change to GUID , so in the " Partition Layout " dropbox select " 1 partition " ( or however many you want ) . Click on the " Options ... " button right below the list view showing your partitions and select " GUID partition table " . Adjust your partitions as needed and hit " Apply " .
You ca n't do it natively , and you ca n't do it through an App Store app . You 'll have to jailbreak and search for a blacklist app on Cydia . Of course you can disable SMS and/or MMS entirely on the device , but the iPhone and iOS is designed to have blocking enforced from the cell carrier and not the device . Until and unless your local carrier offers an iOS app so that you can self-block addresses , you 'll need to modify iOS by jailbreaking to have SMS suppressed once they reach the iPhone hardware and software .
Either uploading a new binary update or rejecting the App 's actual binary and then pressing on Ready to Upload Binary should do the trick . As written under Apple 's <URL> : Cryptography and U.S. Export Compliance U.S. export laws require that products containing encryption be properly authorized for export . When you 're ready to upload your first binary for your app or upload a binary update , iTunes Connect presents a series of questions regarding software encryption . The questions are designed to determine the level of encryption in the app according to U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ) classifications .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
The link is broken - please look at some upvoted answers below as well Assuming you are talking about the reference dictionary for looking up the meanings of words ( NOT spellchecking/autocorrection ) , you can not modify that on an iOS device . But in OS X you can add other modules . This page provides some info : <URL>
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
You can read about the differences <URL> About the adapter You gave in the link , a reviewer wrote : If you 're looking for an adapter to charge your 30 pin device * with a lightning cable , then you will not be disappointed . If you wishing to connect your 30 pin device * for sync to your computer * , then you will also not be disappointed for at least some 30 pin devices * . Also many complain that the device they got does not work , so You should look for a more reliable one . There is a post about this that the adapter stopped working after a new software version : <URL> You should consider buying an USB to 30 pin or a more reliable 8 to 30 pin adapter like <URL> ( note that this only allows you to charge the phone . No data transfer )
end question
start question
iPhone : How to prevent maximum screen brightness when charging ?
Upgrade to iOS 4.2 . It fixes both the charging brightness and the locked screen brightness bugs . I just tried it and it works .
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
in Lion this is possible , but do n't remember seeing this anywhere in previous versions . When you start a screen sharing session it will ask you how you want to view the remote session .
I found a solution that works for my needs : As it turns out , I should not lock the screen , but instead start the screensaver , and require the screensaver to immediately require a password . I created a ' Start Screensaver ' service with Automator , and then selected a keyboard shortcut for that service under Settings - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services .
Figured it out : pressing F9 ( Or Fn-F9 if you 're on a MacBook or using a Apple keyboard ) when the Screen Sharing window is active will bring up Mission Control on the remote machine and you can switch between desktops and full screen applications .
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
Upgrade to iOS 4.2 . It fixes both the charging brightness and the locked screen brightness bugs . I just tried it and it works .
Go into the menu on your external monitor . If there 's an option that allows one device to toggle the power on the other via HDMI , make sure this is deselected ( honestly , I do n't think this will have an effect as your laptop is doing the driving , but for the sake of troubleshooting ... ) . I too use an MBP Retina with external monitor ( via HDMI ) . If I shut off the external monitor while it has application windows in its desktop , the screen on my laptop refreshes and said windows are moved to my laptop 's display . However , if I power the external monitor back on , these application windows " automagically " move back to where they were ( same location and size ) on the external ' Desktop ( as long as I have n't shut down the computer in the meantime ) . So , it seems one solution ( if you 're hard set against also using your laptop ' display ) is to leave the laptop open , but decrease the brightness of the screen to 0 . I do this all the time when watching a movie on the big screen , and , truly , the laptop ' profile is no less " bulky " than it would be if it was closed . An additional benefit to this method is that the laptop stays cooler ( than it otherwise would by closing it ) . You can verify this with any free temperature-monitoring app . If the above does not work or is otherwise intolerable , you 're looking at some heavy Linux scripting to get something like this to work ( which , even for an expert programmer , should prove to be a great learning experience , if its even possible ) .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
There is a maximum of 11 pages of apps on your iPad . Those that do n't show up can be launched by swiping all the way left to the iPad spotlight , and searching for the app title . As for maximum number of apps in a folder , I was able to fit 20 ( as you mentioned ) . I was not able to find any official documentation regarding this matter .
Go to Settings > Messages . There 's an option " Show Preview " there . If you toggle this to off , it will stop showing SMS previews on the lock screen . This will also disable the alert popup when a new SMS arrives and the phone is not locked .
Some obvious causes : Need to wait 30 to 60 seconds for the SMC to read the battery and decide what to do check for pencil lead/debris on the mac end of the magsafe check for pins stuck down on the magsafe cord end of things The <URL> on the Mac The battery , all adapter or charging circuitry itself is faulty or detecting something that causes a pause and the mac might need service . ( This is exactly what your mac will do if it needs an 85 watt adapter but you 've somehow gotten your " friend 's " 65 watt adapter - if your adapter is n't putting out enough power , the mac can only run and not support the CPU/GPU load as well as the charging circuitry . Similarly , if the battery is drawing more than designed , the mac will prefer to run than charge and tells you this in the not charging message . ) Due to the way batteries work , they can be out of range at only a certain voltage range so initially it will be good until you reach that one point where the voltage drops too fast and shows aging or a problem with the cells . Do a <URL> at your earliest convenience and think about a visit to the genius bar or other service desk if the problem continues . Take your wall adapter with you when you go as it can be checked with the mac together .
<URL> provides a method of using the Ambient Light Sensor to determin a " location " then the location determines what changes on your computer . While ControlPlane is usually used to change system settings depending on where the computer is located , it could also be used to launch an application ( or AppleScript ) upon sensing a change in lighting .
Currently , there does n't seem to be a way to prevent iTunes from pulling in the voice memos . The closest I 've been able to figure would be to have a script or launchd item that simply removes anything that it sees . Preferable copying them to another directory for storage .
I 'm not sure that this is quite the solution that you 're looking for , but the utility <URL> does make sure that windows return to a set position when connecting an external display . I have n't had a chance to use it myself , but since purchasing a new external display , I must say it 's tempted me . You might also check out this related <URL> , which has more suggestions . A quick search pulled up this <URL> , which might also solve your question by disabling the sleep signal sent when you close the lid ... Someone with stronger terminal-fu than myself might know some direct CLI commands to do this directly .
This feature seems to now exist in Apple Screen Sharing Version 1.5 ( 481.1 ) Or and then select
That 's actually not a bug , but a feature : as the battery ages by charge cycles , your computer wo n't charge if it 's almost full in order to extend the battery 's life . By unplugging and replugging the power supply , you force a battery recharge until it 's full .
Just in case you were n't aware of these options , or have n't already tried this , you could change the Battery settings under Energy Saver . Your question does n't specify what version of macOS you 're using , but here are some generic steps : Go to System Preferences > Energy Saver Select the Battery tab Set Computer Sleep to Never Set Display Sleep to Never Set Graphics to Higher Performance Make sure Slightly dim the display when using this power source is unchecked Make sure Automatically reduce brightness before display goes to sleep is unchecked Exit System Preferences Let us know how you go .
Technical Lithium Polymer batteries , such as those used in the iPhone , are a very well understood battery chemistry and use specific chargers to manage their charging . While the latest charging ICs Apple uses are proprietary ( they work with <URL> for their power managment ICs ) it is unlikely that Apple performs a significantly different charging process than every other battery charging IC manufacturer . This process charges the battery as quickly as reasonable while protecting the battery from damage or increased wear and tear . Please note that the charging IC - or Power Management IC - is located inside the iPhone . So this applies regardless of the external USB powering device you use to charge it . When the battery is full , the charger turns off the charging process . The battery is left alone without current going into or out of it . This is because most Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like trickle charging ( a process you may hear from others where a constant voltage and low current is applied to a battery all the time to keep it topped off ) . Charging ICs therefore turn the current completely off and power the phone itself from the charger . This is the only time the battery is n't charging or discharging - when it 's full and the phone is plugged in . The battery is n't discharged and charged in some sort of cycle after charging is complete . I 'm not sure where this myth stems from , because it would actually place additional wear and tear on the battery . Self Discharge Every battery has a " self-discharge " rate . This is the battery 's natural capacity loss when not connected to anything . For Lithium Polymer batteries this is a low ( compared to other rechargeable battery types ) 5 % per month . The charging IC does check up on the battery and if it loses significant charge over time while plugged in , it will start another charging cycle . But this would occur perhaps once every two weeks after several percent of the battery charge has been lost - certainly not over night . If you leave you phone plugged in for a month , it might start another charging cycle once or twice in that time . Conclusion The phone and its battery , therefore , will suffer absolutely no damage being plugged in for days at a time . Long term storage There is one caveat to this answer : Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like to be stored with full charges . They degrade more quickly if they are n't used and have a full charge . If you are going to store your mobile device unused for more than a month , charge it up fully , then discharge it ( watch videos over wifi or play video games ) until it 's 40-50 % charged . Then turn the device fully off . Long term use If you are using an older iPhone in a fixed installation ( picture frame on the wall , data collection , baby monitor , etc ) while turned on and in use with it plugged into a charger all the time , you should consider disconnecting the charger and discharging it fully once a month . Similar issue to the above - the battery does n't like being " stored " for long periods of time at full charge , and the charger will keep it near 100 % the entire time - degrading the battery a bit more quickly than desired . Going through a discharge cycle will exercise it and help it to last longer . Personal While I use a newer phone now , I charged my iPhone 3GS every day for 8 + hours a day ( ie , overnight ) regardless of how much charge was left - and more often than not , I had used less than 20 % on a given day . I used it for 4 years that way , and never replaced the battery - it still lasted much longer than a day . Since then ( 3 years now ) it 's been essentially an iPod touch , being charged for days a at a time when no one is using it , and being left in the car discharged for days ( or weeks ! ) at a time when it 's forgotten . Battery is still going strong , and this is certainly more than 900 charging cycles for this device . My iPhone 5 and iPad ( 3rd gen ) was used the same way . No negative impact from having them charge all night every night . I 'm now using the iPhone 6 + the same way . This is an expected use case for a mobile device , and it 's running just fine . I expect that to continue to be the case . You can leave your iPhone plugged in all night and it will not be harmful to your iPhone .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
end question
start question
Why are my Apple Developer emails blue ?
Mail automatically highlights emails from Apple . You can turn this off in the Rules tab of Mail Preferences .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
Since the phone is less than a year old , it will be covered by the default AppleCare warranty . I suggest contacting Apple , and they will probably just replace the phone outright .
From Menubar 1 . Edit - > Select All 2 . Message - > Mark - > As Read
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
Yes , you can absolutely delete the folder Developer-3 .2.5 - it should n't effect your workflow in any way UNLESS you want to add an older SDK at a later date . If you are interested in seeing more discussion about it , there is also an <URL> that essentially says the same thing - that you do n't need the folders .
Still works fine . This will allow you to install you own Apps on the device for testing . Otherwise the only way 's to get apps on you iOS device is Jailbreak or App Store .
Most of the third party iPhone ones are mostly safe most of the time . However there is n't a good way to tell which ones are n't . Here is a teardown of an <URL> and a <URL> . I say most of the time since some of the safety issues are only problems if there are faults . But in a poorly designed one , faults can cause fire and/or shock . Also poorly designed ones can get hot , which might be a problem in an enclosed space . I personally would avoid anything that claims to be from Apple but is priced lower than theirs . That demonstrates the seller is willing to lie , so they are questionable to begin with . A reputable seller would n't try to pretend they are selling Apple chargers .
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
If you check the Keyboard pane in System Preferences , you should see an option called . I think you 'll find it checked . The default is to have it unchecked . Then within the Mission Control pane in System Preferences , I think you 'll find that " Show Dashboard " is set to F13 . The default is F12 ( note that the default does n't work if is n't checked ) .
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
If you do n't have other Mail accounts with data that you want , quit Mail.app and delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , quit Mail.app , open the V2 folder inside the above path and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
You can not do this on iOS . Maybe a future iOS will let you select your default browser but iOS , as of version 5 , does not .
You need to update your rules to move mail to the gmail IMAP folders rather than the ones from ' On My Mac ' . When it does that , it is copying them out of the gmail box to your local mail store . You could also have the rules set up in gmail which will parse them before sending mail to your device , so on both your Mac and iOS devices they would already be in the correct location .
After replacing the macbook air for the key " 9 " broken after one day , they replaced the keyboard for free last week for the second issue ( the key " t " not working well ) . Great
The GUI for Disk Utility has always had problems with resizing volumes . You could try diskutil from the command line , if you trust your skills enough . I 'd start the Terminal and write to see all devices connected . To resize a volume from the list you 'd write something like this ( Let 's assume that disk2s2 is 100GB ) : This should create a secod partition with 50gb size , HFS + format ( mac format ) and the name Lion
Open the image that you would like to be the folder icon in Preview . Press ⌘ cmd + A to select the entire image and press ⌘ cmd + C to copy it . Get Info ( ⌘ cmd + I ) on the folder . Click the folder icon on the top-left and press ⌘ cmd + V to paste in the icon . To revert back to the default blue folder ... Get Info on the folder . Click your icon in the top-left . Press ⌘ cmd + X . The folder icon is stored in the folder , as a hidden file . You can also remove the folder icon using the following Terminal command inside the folder with the icon that you wish to remove :
For some reason when it syncs , it sometimes only remembers the iTunes information and does n't read the device information . So you may find that after syncing it will deleted apps you 'd installed and install apps you 'd deleted . It 's very annoying . To get around that , I have set my devices to not automatically sync when plugged in . When I do plug them in , I right click the device name , click Transfer Purchases , and after that has been completed then I sync .
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
Current Apple keyboards ( as of 2012 ) are not N-Key rollover and as far as I know no recent keyboard they have ever made is . I think some of the really old ones were N-key rollover , but ca n't confirm it . You can use <URL> to test your keyboard - click on the embedded flash app and press several keys simultaneously Beware that every keyboard has a different electronic layout and will fail in different key combinations . On my Apple Aluminium keyboard if I hold down the and keys , then press the key , the third key press does not register . But there are other key combinations where as many as six keys will register at once . It is commonly said that true N-Key rollover can only be achieved using a PS/2 keyboard , and that USB keyboards can only achieve 6-key rollover . As far as I know , this limitation only applies to Microsoft Windows . My mechanical keyboard 's spec sheet claims " 6-key rollover with USB , N-key rollover with USB to PS/2 adapter " . When using it with USB on my Mac , I 've confirmed that is in fact 20-key rollover .
end question
start question
Why do I need tuntap for HideMyAss ?
You do n't need any kernel extensions . OS X has VPN configurability built in as well as all the UNIX tuneless and networking code and commands you could possibly need for securing the network . ( It 's BSD under the hood , after all ) . Why that one package needs a . kext could be innocent and performance tuning or to prevent needing a password to change things later or it could be nefarious for any number of reasons .
Newstand content is simply an iOS Application that makes use of the <URL> , so you might start with <URL> and a one year membership to the <URL> . When you enroll in the latter , you will learn what things can be discussed and asked about publicly and which parts of the program are covered by an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) . You do n't need the paid membership to download Xcode and start learning and crafting your first Newsstand app , but you do get access to many training videos , a <URL> on NDA topics . The ability to sign and install apps you develop on some test devices to work on development before they are ready for sale on the App Store is also critical for proper QA . There are also many other paid options to developer Newsstand apps , but I would start with free and training like the dedicated page for developers to learn Newstand : <URL>
You 've set the homepage to open on startup . Go to settings check the option there . You can disable it from there too .
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
It 's not necessary . For more details than you could possibly want , read <URL> by Amit Singh ( author of <URL> ) .
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
Yes it does . It has to verify the firmware with Apple 's servers ( gs.apple.com ) . If it can not , it will error out ( usually presenting a 3XXX error , which is quite often 3004 ) and fail to update .
I think this page explains what you have to do : <URL>
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
I would err on the side of caution and wipe any server that you see odd behavior on that was exposed to the public internet in general without a logging firewall and/or some sort of tripwire or security scan set up to compare what changed since installation . I think one of my OS X servers was compromised for the first time ever during this bash scripting vulnerability window . The time it would take me to search for a root kit is far longer than the time it took me to make one last backup and then wipe it from an external drive and start over . In my case , I had a new user named A Lo created as a standard user . Pretty odd and very un-subtle of someone that manages to gain control of a server with a fixed IP address . Basically , the more sophisticated black hat that has compromised your computer - the less likely you will notice it so from a reliability standpoint - if you notice instability it 's likely cause the people that have compromised your server are inept or sloppy and will cause you to eventually have to reinstall . Just to be clear , any server that 's hidden behind a router with NAT is far less vulnerable than a server running live services 24/7 with a real , static IPv4 and no firewall whatsoever . People that just run OS X should have no concerns at all unless they have other reasons to think they are compromised .
Migration Assistant can use a Time Capsule as a Time Machine backup source , without the need for a direct connection . Once you 've installed OS X , use Migration Assistant to restore from a Time Machine backup , then select your Time Capsule .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
You can save the whole iTunes folder ( it should be at . . / Music/iTunes directory ) and just put it back after you reinstall iTunes on your new Windows system ( new iTunes installation will put it 's new " blank " folder in / Music , just replace with your backup copy ) . By doing so iDevices will recognise your library as the one they had synced with before and will continue to sync with it like nothing happened , hence keeping all the saves on the devices .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
<URL> and <URL> are your friends . A <URL> is due to bad memory management of the application . Basically , it allocates memory but fails to release it when finished . Therefore , as the application continues to run , it keeps allocating free memory until there is no more . The fact that certain browsers use more or less memory has nothing to do with there being a memory leak . Chrome likes to have individual processes for each tab or session ( more memory ) where Firefox does the opposite . Memory is cheap now so there is less of a need to be efficient , but there is a need for higher performance . The real issue is what to do about memory leaks - since most people do n't reprogram and self-patch a program like FireFox - you can quit a program that has leaks or just log out . Mac OS ( as well as most other operating systems ) then release all the leaked memory and return it to the system pool . Leaks happen , so as an educated user you can watch for them and tend to leaky programs as opposed to letting them run continually .
The answer was actually to do with the silly way Apple works when you run a backup with iTunes . Person A backs up their iPhone which has an app called " Whatsapp " . Person B then backs up their iPhone which also has the same app . ( Itunes will not backup Whatsapp as Person A already has ) . Person B later restores their iPhone from their own backup . Silly iTunes then uses Person A 's backed up copy of Whatsapp to restore onto Person B 's iPhone , which later causes the password prompt when performing updates . We used the same laptop 's and desktops to backup iPhones when going from iPhone 5 to 6 , which caused this problem to happen all over the place . EDIT : YES this is 100 % what is happening which is why it is the answer , not sure why the down-vote , but probably from the unhappy guy in the comments that did n't like me calling his precious iTunes " silly " . If you have the problem I had in the question , then this is the answer for it .
Out of the box , there is no / opt file delivered by OS X . This command will show the hidden status of files in root with O being the capital letter , not zero . The command can be used to toggle the hidden flag if needed . Depending on how you got / opt created , you may or may not have issues with the permissions changing again - most tools leave things alone with respect to filesystem flags as long as the read/write/execute permissions are not removed .
The MDM server does need to be available by the device , but Profile Manager itself does not . In other words , the ability to access the Profile Manager does n't need to be present on the device , providing the literal MDM server is accessible .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What is the maximum RAM size for MacBook Pro Mid 2012 ?
The Mid 2012 MacBook Pro can support up to 16GB of RAM by using 2 8GB kits . Both the Retina and non-Retina models ( mid 2012 ) support 16GB of RAM . Per <URL> , you can have <URL> I have personally used the <URL> modules many times with great results . <URL> Since , you said that you already upgraded your drive to an SSD , I assume you know how to remove the bottom cover to access the memory .
According to Apple the answer is no , but OWC has <URL> and found that there are no issues putting 16GB ( 2x8GB ) in the latest generation MacBook Pro . The upgrade does n't come cheap , though - at this time 2x8GB modules will set you back $ 1599 . <URL>
Yes . The back cover is secured with Philips # 00 screws . Note that is says : The lower case is secured by ten Phillips # 00 screws . You can see the ten screws on the back cover : four each at the top/bottom one each on the left/right
Most typically , it is used for the <URL> , which can control iTunes , QuickTime and various other built in software . Additionally , 3rd party software ( see <URL> and <URL> ) also makes use of the device and can tie in much more functionality . In the past ( prior to Lion ) , the Apple Remote was an excellent companion to <URL> , a media manager that some call the predecessor to the Apple TV interface .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
I bought a new 15 '' MBP just one week ago and I considered the same choices . Finally I took the 2.0 GHz for the following reasons : from the pure CPU point of view this would be an endless pursuit : there will always be a CPU with a frequency a bit higher than what you have ; for example you would be tempted to go from the 2.2 to the 2.3 GHz the 2.2 ( and 2.3 ) have 8 MB ( instead of 6 MB ) of L3 cache , that 's my only regret I think it is more useful to upgrade from the 5400 RPM drive to the 7200 RPM , I think there 's a noticeable difference if you 're a software developer then you should really consider to upgrade to the HD screen In my opinion , unless your budget is unlimited these two upgrades are much worth their price than the CPU upgrade to 2.2 GHz ( even considering the GPU and the cache ) .
Apple provides a list of available keyboards here : <URL> Which ones are available depends on where you are located .
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
I will not recommend you do this since it will degrade your wireless performance . The WiFi and bluetooth antennas are located just off the DVD slot to allow more signal to come out . Remember the MBP is a metal cage and wireless signals need a way to come out .
No , the 2012 and early-2013 Retina MBP SSD 's are not PCIe-based , so you could not install an SSD from a late-2013 Retina MBP .
<URL> to manually create the Recovery HD partition , but it seems complicated for a novice user . If you do n't feel sure about your self into doing this , then I suggest you to re-install Lion .
My choice would generally be Lucida Grande or Anadale Mono ; Some days I 'm more in the mood for Monaco though too . If my eyes start getting tired I ditch the small fonts for a few days if possivle . Depending on the shell I 'm running , I 've had Anadale Mono cranked all the way down to 5 point and still readable ( provided I have access to an electron microscope as backup ) .
Battery Life <URL> states that the battery of the Macbook Air performs just like the batteries of the Macbook Pro : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . In addition , <URL> reduces the wear and tear on the battery giving it a lifespan of up to 5 years . During this lifespan the batteries will have a fast charge to 80 % of the current battery capacity ( 2-3 hours ) . [ <URL> ] Battery Maintenance Do not leave your Macbook plugged in all the time . The battery juices need to move from time to time . It 's recommended that you charge and discharge the battery at least once per month . Temperature : Keeping your Mac at room temperature ( 22 ° C/72 ° F ) is ideal . Long Term Storage : Apple recommends that you store the battery with a 50 % charge , if you are not planning on using it for at least half a year . The innovation in the design of the battery of the Macbook Air was not about increasing capacity , but about the ability to manufactures them very thin . The batteries of the Macbook Air are <URL> of the Macbook Air .
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
No need to worry - at present , the only MacBook with a physically different keyboard size ( in the US ) than the rest is the 11 inch Air . The small Air has a full sized " main keyboard " but the top row of function keys are slightly smaller than the top row of function keys on the rest of the lineup . I would presume that the same holds for international key layouts when they have different enter keys or additional physical keys , but do n't know that fact for sure . The cover you mentioned will fit the new retina MacBooks - both 13 " and 15 " - as long as the hardware is a US model .
The explanation on the Preferences panel is wrong and confusing . The Retina display does n't actually run at 1280x800 . Instead it just " looks like " it does . A 13.3 inch screen running at 96dpi ( pixels ( dots ) per inch ) has a resolution of about 1280x800 and the 8pt font and other on screen elements are big enough for the eye to see . When you run a 13.3 at retina resolutions 2560x1800 the fonts are much much smaller and hard to look at , so OS X makes them as big as they were at 1280x800 but more detailed . You get to see the same thing as one would at 1280x800 but at much greater detail 226dpi instead of 96dpi . Resolution is just a big " carpet " of dots , you have a fixed amount of them and you can make the dots bigger to cover more area . For example a 3840x2160 4K TV that is 48 inches wide diagonally has about 90 pixels per inch comparable to a normal desktop monitor . A 15 inch Retina Macbook Pro has 2800x1800 ( a little less than the 4k tv ) but they are packed smaller and closer together on a much smaller surface area , 15 inch wide instead of 48 .
According to <URL> This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . ... so I 'd say ' yes ' .
I have run Mavericks/Yosemite on a 64 GB SD card and after a clean install , there was about 20-30 GB free . I would say that you could install Yosemite on a 20 GB partition , but I would not recommend anything less than 30 GB .
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
end question
start question
Does a Magic Trackpad have a button ?
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
The answer boils down to how much work the compression algorithm can do to squeeze the file down , and how much quality loss you are willing to tolerate . Dark Knight on Blu-ray uses VC-1 encoding at 24Mbps , and it 's around 27GB on disk . Good thing BDs have so much room ! The goal is to give really good quality . The iPhone encodes things around 17Mbps ( according to the file I just checked ) using h. 264 with the High@L4.1 profile . It has to encode things in real-time because it ca n't stream the raw video to flash . Doing things in real-time limits the amount of work the compressor can do and results in higher file size than slower compression . The iPhone could probably choose to degrade the quality of the video in order to get smaller files , but since you can never get quality back , it makes sense to keep quality there at the beginning . The BD rips you 're talking about have two things in their favor . One is that people are willing to accept a much lower quality than the BD in order to shrink the file size . Also , they have plenty of time to compress the files , so they can easily compress at half or quarter real time . That lets the compression algorithms find a lot more ways to shrink the file size without degrading quality . If you want to store the iPhone videos yourself for later viewing , you can certainly transcode them yourself and shrink them . You probably would not want to use the results for a <URL> but they would be perfectly good for keeping memories .
So - It appears that they did remove this feature in Yosemite .
GPS uses satellites to triangulate your position with great accuracy , however there are other ways to get a fix provided you can triangulate via other means . Apple uses a database of WIFI networks with known locations to help ascertain your location in some instances ( i.e. if you can see WIFI networks A B and E , then you must be approximately located at Z for example ) . Also , using cellular information you can do a similar thing by noting which cells you are able to see and the relative signal strengths you are receiving from them . EDIT : Also , it is possible with a lesser degree of accuracy to estimate your location just by using your IP address . This can be tracked down to a certain extent and while likely not sufficient to be accurate by itself , when you combine this with all the other methods above you can start to get a picture with more accuracy .
I 've found the trackpad to be great for general purpose use ( particularly the 3-finger swipe-to-drag gesture and the wonderful inertial scrolling ) but I 've found it too inaccurate for GUI development work . When I 'm laying out screens for software development , or creating graphics for said software , it 's too awkward to exactly position things with . I suspect you will find a similar problem if you are touching-up images etc. . I 've found the ergonomics to be good , to be honest - I mostly use the Magic Trackpad and when that 's not suitable for a job ( see above ) I switch to a Magic Mouse for a couple of hours . I have relatively small hands and find the Magic Mouse to be a really comfortable mouse , with no strain on fingers or wrist even after prolonged use . The trackpad gives you less to ' lean on ' but I have n't found myself with any wrist ache or strain even when I 've been using it solid for a day , etc. .
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
The new iPad , like all iPads , have a combined audio input/output jack , like the iPhone and newer MacBooks . The Genius was correct : Griffin cable should have worked . If it did n't , either the cable or the iPad was faulty . One other possibility is that it was the software . This is n't very likely , but it 's possible that the software you were using had some sort of compatibility issue with the new iPad .
Here is what I would do to troubleshoot it ( with the help of an external mouse ) : Go to System Preferences , then select Trackpad , and make some change on that screen . Try your trackpad again . If that does n't work , reboot . If that does n't work , and if you 're using BootCamp ( or VMware Fusion , or Parallels ) , try booting into the other operating system that you have installed on your Mac and see if your trackpad is recognized there . If that does n't work , try cleaning off your trackpad . Give it a good vacuuming , get any dust out from around the edges . If that does n't work , then ( if you 're comfortable ) it 's time to dig into the innards of your Macbook . One option is that your battery could be impacting this . If your battery life on your Macbook has also gone down , the battery itself could be physically bulging out , and it could move your trackpad enough out of alignment that it wo n't work any longer . If that 's the case , then you need a new battery . If your battery is fine , then it could be that you need a new trackpad . I bought a replacement trackpad from eBay for my old Macbook , and that got me an extra year 's worth of life out of that Macbook . It was a bit fiddly to replace , but it worked .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
The radio frequencies and they respective power are regulated by official sources . In the USA , you will need to go to the FCC web site to get precise numbers for the radio power output . In order to search the <URL> , you will need the FCC ID of the device you want to lookup . All devices that use radio frequency spectrum are required to print their unique FCC ID on a label on the device . It may also be printed on a separate document that accompanies the device . Example for iPhone 4S WiFi radio .
Yes ! Orbit - Cmd + Ctrl and click/drag Pan - Cmd + Ctrl + Shift and click/drag Zoom - Two-finger scroll up/down ( no click necessary )
You 've downloaded adware and possibly malware onto your computer . You 'll need to remove it . To check for adware , try AdwareMedic : <URL> For malware removal , ClamXav is a free and effective choice : <URL> Good luck with the cleanup !
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
The answer is yes , Apple is rejecting the apps that let the user input iBeacon UUID . If you fetch an uuid from a server , that would probably result in the same problem . Just a quote from an article about this issue : We 've been receiving reports that Apple has recently taken its " lock down " of UUID scanning a step further . Before , you needed to specify the UUID numbers you were scanning for in your app , but you could also manually input those numbers . But now , Apple is rejecting apps that have this functionality . Awwapps is one of the documented cases of this rejection : " With the upcoming updates of our iBeacon apps Launch Here and Travel Radar we will remove the option to manually add and edit iBeacon credentials ( UUIDs , Major ID , Minor ID ) . This is not our choice . We do this to keep the apps in the App Store . We 'll do our best to come up with other options to add your iBeacons -- better options ... We will improve on this and extend support to more iBeacon vendors ... Please note that a general scanning of all iBeacons around is not possible on iOS . We rely on your input to cover all commonly used iBeacons . " Source : <URL> Why : Apple decided this for security reason . That allows developers to prevent their ibeacons of being used by others companies . Why it 's not a big deal : Most beacons constructors set up their beacons with the same UUID . So the most commons beacons may still be found , unless the UUID was changed for security reasons . For example , by default , the UUID for all the iBeacons built by Estimote is " B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D " . You then rely on the " major " and " minor " id sent by the beacon to develop your application . iBeacons are n't invisible : It 's possible on Android devices to develop an application able to see all the iBeacons in range , and to get it published on the Play Store without any trouble . On iOS , it 's still technically possible that an application may let the user input the UUID value , it just wo n't be approved by the App Store . And of course , the iBeacons still emits Bluetooth data that still physically exists in the air .
Thanks to <URL> , it would appear to be safe to say that the Apple Watch is more powerful than a Cray-2 : Twice as fast , twice the memory . 2 excerpts from that table <URL> :
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
Your computer has 2 cores , but 4 logical processors . What you are seeing is Intel 's <URL> . This technology puts multiple logical processors on a single core , so that each core can run multiple threads at once . The difference between this and multiple cores is that hyper-threading only duplicates the parts of the processor which control the current state , not the actual execution unit , but multiple cores duplicate everything . This means that your computer will run like it has four cores only if the threads on each core are using different parts of the execution unit , but if the exact same thing was running on both threads in a single core , it would n't be any faster than a two-core system without hyper-threading .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
Actually , the previous MacBook Air 13 " ( 2010 ) used a Core 2 Duo SL9400 or SL9600 which both have a TDP of 17W . The new MacBook Air 13 " ( 2011 ) uses an i5-2557M or i7-2677M which both have a TDP of 17W too . I do n't think we can say that these new CPU consume less power . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> My personnal opinion is that Apple tried to stick to the power consumption while boosting the performance by switching to a more modern architecture . I do not expect Apple engineers to work on switching architecture AND improving power consumption at the same time . So to answer your question : No , I would not expect a longer battery life with these new CPUs . Even a little reduction for those with an 11 " MacBook Air because their CPU switched from 10W to 17W .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
end question
start question
Can I use a Macbook ( or an iMac ) as a Bluetooth Player ?
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
As stated in <URL> , many older Apple machines , and specifically the hardware specified in the question , have no Bluetooth 4 support . <URL> The information on that site provides links not only to iMacs , but most Apple machines .
The memory for the MacBook Pro 8,1 ; 8,2 and 8,3 is the same as for the iMac 12,1 and 12,2 . Just as a point of clarity , the models possible are : Early 2011 MacBook Pro Late 2011 MacBook Pro Mid 2011 iMac Late 2011 iMac
Taken from <URL> support article : OS X Recovery includes a built in set of utilities as part of the Recovery System . To start your computer from Recovery , restart your Mac and hold down the Command key and the R key ( Command-R ) . Press and hold these keys until the Apple logo appears . The recovery feature is limited to OS X Lion , Mountain Lion , Mavericks , Yosemite , and El Capitan .
If you 're using iTunes to play music , it 's actually much easier than that , and does n't require any other software . In iTunes , click on the Airplay icon next to the volume control , click " Multiple " and select the devices you wish to play through . <URL>
I have that exact disk ( WD7500BPVT ) in my late 2010 ( bought it in September ) 13 " Macbook Pro , and it fits fine . No EFI problems when installing , just replaced the disk , formatted it and installed OS X. Excessive head parking I experienced the excessive head parking problem with this disk . I resolved it by using the <URL> utility to set the disk 's power saving settings to the least aggressive setting , which stopped the heads from parking , and it works just fine . I had the same issue ( with a different disk ) in Linux on my previous laptop ; I did an equivalent fix , and it has worked fine for well over 3 years -- so I 'm not worried about the disk , but had I known this before buying it I might have chosen a different disk . When I was googling around for a solution to this problem , I got the impressions that lots of disks behave this way , so I guess it 's not just the WD Scorpio Blue . This is a very common issue with certain disks on Linux as well . Advanced Format on OS X WD says <URL> about their Advanced Format disks on OS X : Mac OSX version 10.4 onwards ( Tiger , Leopard and Snow Leopard ) can use the GUID Partitioning Table scheme ( GPT ) which will align an Advanced Format drive correctly . Mac OS versions using Apple Partition Manager ( APM ) will not align partitions correctly and will not provide optimum performance . Basically ; use GPT , and you 're good .
Does the migration assistant work well across OS versions and CPU architectures ? Yes , this will work just fine . The best way to do it is to get a firewire cable to connect the two iMacs , boot the older iMac into <URL> , and let the installer on the new iMac perform the migration . I believe that Rosetta is n't installed by default , but when you try to launch a Power PC app you will be prompted to install it .
An iPad does n't offer the same capabilities as a Wacom graphics tablet . At best -- Eazel excepted -- you 'll only be able to control the cursor on the mac or pc . There are many of those types of programs for the iPad in iTunes from the free touch mouse ( iPhone only ) to iTeleport ( iPad , US$ 25 ) . Graphics tablets are n't that expensive , especially compared to an iPad . The cheapest Wacom tablet in the USA goes for $ 200 or so . Ask someone you know to give you one for your birthday or appropriate holiday . If you know enough people , you might even be able to find one for free . I gave away my old Wacom Graphire last year when I bought a new Intuos . Ebay shows used Graphires for a variety of prices ; make sure used tablets include the pen and mouse . I also have made video tutorials using a graphics tablet and Photoshop . I have not settled on which video capture software to use . There are too many for me recommend one .
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
Provided you have done what Vlad said ( enable the Bluetooth sharing ) and paired the devices ( which you seem to have done ) , I have absolutely no problem to send files via bluetooth using my Nexus-S . I have ICS 4.03 now , but I had 2.3.x ( where X is 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 if I 'm not mistaken ) . Once you have the devices Paired , if the Mac is in range and with BT enabled , the phone can send files because the Mac should be on the phone 's list of paired devices . I recall that in 2.3.x sometimes it wo n't work , but retrying to turning on/off BT was usually enough . I do n't use it a lot , but I just tried ( after months of probably never touching bluetooth on either device ) and I got this : Here 's my preference pane : and Finally , this is my Phone 's paired list ( two are intentionally blurred ) , but you can see my Macbook Air : Hope you can double-check your settings . For reference : I have Firewall ON I have Firewall Stealth ON . Here 's my Firewall Screen ( app list blurred by me ) :
I assume that you have your presentation or document you want to show on your Mac . If so , the setup I use is as follows : Install <URL> on your iPad and its client on your Mac Install <URL> on your mac . Using AirDisplay " link " your iPad to your mac and mirror the displays . Connect your projector and mirror the display Create a new document in CocoPad and in the right corner choose a " transparent " canvas . Bring the transparent canvas on top of the document you want to scribble on and then scribble with your finger ( or a stylus ) on the iPad Since AirDisplay relies on a wireless network to become an external display , you may want to make your setup more reliable by creating your own wireless network . To do so go to System Preferences - > Sharing - > Internet Sharing and enable it . Connect your iPad to the " created " wireless network and the connection will now be rock solid . Another option that you could try out is <URL> with cocoPad but it is a bit more expensive but with that option you would not need an iPad . Hope this helps
No , not directly . You can buy any number of HDMI capture hardware that connect via thunderbolt or FireWire and use a thunderbolt FireWire adapter .
<URL> sounds like what you want . From the website : It uses short keywords to allow you to search any site you want , right from the toolbar . ... Just right-click on any search box and choose " Create keyword for this search . " Type in a keyword and KeySearch takes care of the rest . ( I have not used it . )
Already asked at <URL> ( Credits to the OP ) . I post the answer here again - slightly modified : There is no version of VMware Player for OS X. Instead , VMware sells a Mac version of their product called <URL> . You may use it as trial version 30 days for free If you do n't want to purchase VMware Fusion , you can : Use Boot Camp to some other OS . The OS itself should run fine . Use Boot Camp and run vmplayer from the other OS . ( Untested since I do not have a OS/X host ) Use <URL> . VirtualBox can use virtual hard disks in VMware 's VMDK format ( <URL> ) .
Yes you can , but you probably will not choose to do so . When you really want to force the display into 2880x1800 you can easily configure it that way . Here are four of the better options available today to do what you ask : <URL> <URL> ( used to be SetResX ) <URL> <URL> That said , items like the menu bar with the Apple icon are extremely small at 2880x1800 and you do n't need the entire screen to at that high resolution for a properly build application to let the windows it controls have the full resolution . The <URL> are pretty good , and you can always reduce your font sizes even while running at the doubled 1440x900 resolution . Most people will never need to set 2880x1800 since they really only care that the applications they use get the retina treatment and do n't need to force the rest of the UI to run with such a dense packing of pixels .
Yes , Numbers can export CSV files . Go to File " Export and click the CSV tab .
Sure - all macs support network boot . You might look at Deploy Studio for help in setting up a server that can network boot images stored on the remote machine . Borrowing a USB drive or another mac in target mode with a working DVD might be faster - but with a little set up - network booting is very doable .
The iMate was the only converter available on the market . If you do get an iMate , the only thing it will work with these days are keyboards and mice . It internally converts ADB keyboard and mice commands to USB keyboard and mice commands , so it will just make your ADB mouse and keyboard look like a USB mouse and keyboard to the computer , no drivers required . In ~ 2001 there was a driver for the iMate that would actually configure it as an ADB bus the computer could see , that way anything with real ADB drivers could use it just like a builtin port . That driver has not been updated in years , and Apple dropped all ADB support from OS X , so at this point USB emulation is the only thing it does . Not that there were many ( any ? ) interesting ADB devices that were supported under Mac OS X anyway .
end question
start question
Is there a way to get Photo Booth not to flash when it takes a photo ?
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
Yes . This is a feature usually only offered by professional photo software . Removing metadata ( like or ) requires an additional step by the one that wants to share his/her photograph . Aperture for example offers to export picture as either an original or a version . When you choose to export a version the meta - and gps-data is removed from the original . I know from experience that sharing via the following options does not remove these and from pictures : Mail for OS X Tweetdeck for OS X Uploading via a web browser Here 's what the metadata of an export as original look like : Here 's what the metadata of an export as version by Aperture look like . This is an exported version of the same original . The data will differ depending on the export options for a version .
Holding the power button and letting the System Management Controller SMC perform an immediate halt is no worse than letting the software initiate the halt . I suppose you could come up with a scenario with the mac in free fall or something relating to the head not being parked , but modern hardware is designed to handle power losses from the wall outlet with great grace and here the SMC is still controlling a soft landing . The power implications are the same even though the applications and operating system do n't get their normal opportunity to save work , close files and get ready for the next time they start . Your files and data could be at risk from this ( think erase and install OS and restore backup files as worst software case ) , but the hardware does n't care of the open files or some pending changes are not flushed from caches before the lights go out .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
You have two options . The first is to use Terminal to set the folder 's flag . Open Terminal from and type the following command : where is the name of the user 's home folder . This will hide the folder from Finder , but other users could still find it , or change Finder 's preferences to show hidden folders . Alternatively , you could place the home folder for that user in a different location . Open the Users &amp; Groups ( or Accounts ) pane in System Preferences , click the lock to unlock it , right-click on the user , and choose . Then click the Choose button after and find a different location ( you might want to press Shift + Command + . to show hidden folders for this ) . Now , the user 's home will be in a different place so others will have a harder time finding it .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
This is a feature introduced with the <URL> . Accessibility improvements : Option to light LED flash on incoming calls and alerts for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 Custom vibration patterns for incoming calls on iPhone New interface for using iOS with mobility-impairment input devices Option to speak a selection of text Custom element labeling for VoiceOver You can change the setting in Settings - > General - > Accessibility options :
Drag the photos from the album to your photo stream . Careful though ; I did this and ca n't find a way to undo what I 've added to my photo stream !
Regarding your comment on Paul 's answer , wanting to leave your computer for a moment : you have to lock your computer . Period . Open System Preferences , click Security ( top row , second to last option ) , under the " General " tab , check the box for " Require password [ immediately ] after sleep or screen saver begins " . Then , when you go to walk away from your computer ; <URL> ( Additional notes : Click the above line . ) Lock your Mac . Walk away . Come back , enter your password to unlock it . Secured console .
One quick way is on <URL> . Enter " Kairosoft " in the search box . Click on any app title link . Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click on the " Other Apps By This Developer " link . This will bring up a custom page for that developer listing all of their app titles and update info . A custom RSS feed is also generated in the upper-right corner of the screen . This feed will update for any new app releases .
The only other app on the Mac that can access photostream is Aperture . So your choices are migrate to Aperture - and that 's even less designed with sharing in mind - or fix iPhoto . Performance issues like you describe can be down to a number of issues - Disk Space , Ram , bunged up caches and so on . What fixes have you tried ?
Open the Spotlight pane in System Preferences . Select the Privacy tab . Drag the Applications folder from the partitions that you do n't want indexed into the list area . Shortly thereafter the duplicate results should disappear from the list , leaving applications from the one Applications folder you want . You might need to force a refresh the LaunchServices database afterward too . Finally restart the Finder with the following command to rebuild any data cached within the Finder .
Edit : this also should work for El Capitan with a 6.33 GB + partition Currently the best way seems to be through , which is also <URL> . First create a partition on the USB key with <URL> : then in the terminal use the command . It can be found in the Maverick install apk . By default the path is . Replace with your own partition name : The output should be along these lines : The setup should take few to few dozens minutes depending on your USB drive . To create a USB installer for multiple OS X versions you can to go through the following procedure : Start disk utility Create multiple partitions formatted as . Give them names like : OS X Lion : OS X Mountain Lion : OS X Mavericks : Generate multiple install partitions using the tool of each OX 10.9 + version and add the other install partitions using disktool : restore the InstallESD.dmg from to restore the InstallESD.dmg from to From experience here is the data usage for each OS X version : OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard : 7.19 GB OSX 10.7 Lion : 4.78 GB ( requires 6.13 GB ) OSX 10.8 Mountain Lion : 4.48 GB OSX 10.9 Mavericks : 5.4 GB OSX 10.10 Yosemite : 5.25 GB OSX 10.11 El Capitan : 6.33 GB macOS Sierra : 4.84 GB
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
The answer I went with was to contact Apple 's support . After spending about 4 hours on the phone over 3 different occasions the problem still is n't solved . They are going to get back to me again hopefully .
Go back one screen to the main Photo Stream screen . From there , tap on the blue arrow for the Shared Photo Stream you want to change , and you can edit the name , subscribers , etc. . Main screen showing the blue arrow on the right : Sub-screen after tapping on the Photo Stream I want to modify :
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
end question
start question
Does the Macintosh classic have the signatures of the original Mac team ?
No . The signatures were really only in the 128K . Each time some the case saw some minor modification , some of the signatures would be cut off in part or in whole . The 512K Mac contained some of the signatures , and the Macintosh Plus contained a few less . At some point , the signatures disappeared entirely . The Macintosh Classic was an entirely new case design , though , six years later . There were no signatures on it . Also , not being fully satisfied , I found a picture : <URL>
you can always use <URL> page to submit any kind of request . if you have this problem in our own iTunes Library , it is easy to assign a new cover to the song or album by just dragging the cover to it or using the option , you know how to do this right ? if you install Last.fm app you can simple play a song and then drag the last.fm cover into the artwork of the iTunes song .
Each app is placed in it 's own sandbox which limits the app 's access to files etc. . More info here : <URL>
Every model of the Macbook Air has RAM . Every computer has some amount of RAM . What led you to believe it did n't have RAM ?
It 's a shelf for a lot of subscriptions . Many more than the standard folder limits . As conceptually you could see it as a folder , but in fact its a newsstand . I tried to find some documentation on the limit for newsstand and could n't find anything but I 've seen some of my clients have a LOT of subscriptions on their shelves .
Unfortunately , a lot of the graphics on the MacBook Pro with Retina Display are a bit choppy ( for example , scrolling and window resizing ) . The new rMBP simply has a lot of pixels , and the graphics card is no better than the one in the regular MBP . In the next few years we can probably expect this to improve with further software optimizations and better hardware offerings . See also : <URL> ( MacRumors ) <URL> ( AnandTech )
I ended up testing this myself . Syncing content works Restoring the device works I have n't exhaustively tested everything possible , but I did write up what I have tested in more detail on my blog . <URL>
No . The signatures were really only in the 128K . Each time some the case saw some minor modification , some of the signatures would be cut off in part or in whole . The 512K Mac contained some of the signatures , and the Macintosh Plus contained a few less . At some point , the signatures disappeared entirely . The Macintosh Classic was an entirely new case design , though , six years later . There were no signatures on it . Also , not being fully satisfied , I found a picture : <URL>
There are some basic approaches to making a laptop as strong as it needs to be . One is the internal chassis , IBM Thinkpads ( <URL> ) were famous for having a cast magnesium chassis along with a metal skin - they defined " business class " and were much imitated . Another is the <URL> approach . Another is unibody . If size and weight did not matter we 'd probably all carry Toughbook-style machines because they 're , ah , tough . Big rubber bumpers everywhere are pretty good protection , but unibody is the nicest compromise between toughness and size/weight . You get more toughness for a given size and weight by combining the skin with the chassis . Before its introduction in laptops the idea of a <URL> design was well known in aircraft , automobiles , even armoured vehicles and rockets . Ignoring the structural strength of the skin material and relying on the strength of an internal chassis wastes weight . By using the skin for structure as well , there is no wasted space or weight . By making the skin a single rigid piece , structural integrity ( not to mention appearance ) is not harmed by joins or fasteners . By machining out what is unnecessary only , the case can be left stronger ( thicker ) where it matters , at the stress points . Cheaper laptops of a few years ago would flex and creak if not picked up with two hands , just the weight of the parts inside would cause the skin to deform . I ca n't flex my MBP 15 " at all , not even if I grab the sides and try to twist . All materials being equal this design is responsible for the strength of the machine . As a material , aluminium ( you may know it as aluminum ) is desirable because : it is easy to source and relatively cheap it is easy to treat for surface toughness ( anodizing ) it is relatively light and strong it is easy to machine what is machined away is easy to recycle simply by sweeping the floor and re-casting Additionally , unibody design can actually reduce cost by reducing the amount of parts in the laptop , by reducing the number of assembly steps and opportunities for failure during and after the manufacturing process . The video here , at <URL> page is the usual stuff with a lot of sexy shots of perfectly arranged MacBook Pros , you 've seen it before . But the segments with huge billets of aluminium being extruded and then machined into unibody components are just incredible so watch it all ! ( How do you know the Dell is even stronger ? Destructive test results with photos , please :-)
Mac OS X 10.5 + stores user 's account pictures within the Directory Service with the exception of an account that has not modified their user picture from when first created . When first created an account contains a ' Picture ' attribute in their user record that is a path to the image in question . This can be read using the command ( ) . If a user has modified their user picture at any time the account picture ( aka cropped version if appropriate ) is stored in the ' JPEGPhoto ' attribute of their user record . Original files can be found at if you 're looking for an Apple provided picture , while your personal original files should be found at . If the files are ever removed from the folder it will not affect your user account 's image whatsoever . If you wish to extract a version of your account picture you can do so by running the following command : . The resolution can vary depending on the original size of the photo and what version of the operating system you 're using when it is saved . If you are running Mac OS X 10.4 , my memory is failing me as I do n't recall if the user picture was stored in NetInfo or not .
Yes , the App Store exists as that was introduced with iPhone OS 2.0 , however most apps on the store do not support iPhone OS 3.1.3 ( the last version available for the 1st generation iPod touch ) . Emojis can be activated through <URL> on the App Store .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
Turns out it needs to be on the internet initially , in order to set up Home Sharing . But once Home Sharing is set up , it can access content on your Mac as long as your Mac is on the same local network , and has iTunes running .
Since <URL> appears to no longer work ... Bookmark this ( or any ) page - then edit the bookmark - call it what you like , but change the url to ... Now you can check your user agent any time you feel like conveniently from your bookmarks - thanks Apple ! Or if it 's just a quick one-off check you want and you 're connected to the ' net , do what <URL> .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
" Available " , " supported " , and " will work " are three very different things . The officially compatible video cards for the original ( 1,1 ) Mac Pro are : NVIDIA GeForce 7300 GT ATI Radeon X1900 XT NVIDIA Quadro FX 4500 ( and family ) NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT These are the only cards that are supported in an original Mac Pro . Unfortunately , most are not particularly available any more . Apple no longer sells any of these cards , except the Quadro FX family ( which is super-expensive and not consumer-oriented ) . I believe most , if not all , of the above officially supported cards are all Apple-specific variants . There are various non-Apple versions of the above , which may or may not work in a Mac Pro , depending on firmware compatibility ( sometimes it is possible to program a Mac-compatible version of the firmware into a non-Apple card 's non-volatile flash , thus enabling the use of a non-Apple version in the Mac Pro ) . But the bottom line is that it is not really possible to purchase these cards anymore ( except for the super-expensive Quadro FX and maybe a small quantity of the others that can be found used on Amazon or eBay ) . That said , there is at least one other card that is currently ( as of Summer 2011 ) available that will work in an original Mac Pro . Although it is not listed as being officially compatible ( and therefore not officially supported ) , there are numerous accounts in the Apple online store from customers who have reported that the <URL> works just fine out-of-the-box in their original Mac Pros . I too purchased one from a local Apple Store and installed it in my original Mac Pro ( running OS X 10.6.7 ) , so I can state for a fact that this card does work just fine , and it does n't require any hacking ( no drivers to install , no firmware to be flashed ) -- it just works right out of the box . It also performs quite a bit better than the older officially compatible cards . It also works just fine in Windows under Boot Camp ( after downloading and installing the Boot Camp drivers from the ATI/AMD website ) . The only caveat ( and it is a very minor one ) is that the installation instructions that accompany the card deviate somewhat from what is actually required in the original Mac Pro , due to minor variations between the internals of the older Mac Pros and the newer ones . For instance , the instructions mention sliding a PCI cage ( to move a retention bracket ) , but the bracket is not present , and the cage does n't move in the original Mac Pro ( each PCI slot has it 's own small retention " clip " instead ) . Also , the power connector on the motherboard is in a different location in the original Mac Pro . If you do some research , you will find various other reports of users having success with other cards ( especially various ATI Radeon variants ) . Oftentimes , it involves updating the firmware ( flashing ) . However , the Radeon HD 5770 is the only currently available card I am aware of that will work out of the box .
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
Using Time Machine within iPhoto to restore an individual picture wo n't restore the edits . You 're restoring the master file , not the copy that incorporates the edits . If you use Time Machine to restore the entire drive , the entire iPhoto Library is restored , edit copies and masters . While you can use Time Machine to restore a system drive , I find using a clone created with <URL> ( or <URL> ) to be faster and more robust . If your goal is to install a fresh copy of the operating system you can do so by installing Mountain Lion over the existing copy . It will leave your user files in place . ( Make sure you have a good backup , or three , before you try this . ) If this is unsatisfactory , you can install the OS on a freshly formatted disk , then bring your user files over from a clone copy using Migration Assistant . See Apple Knowledgebase : <URL>
I 'm pretty sure Apple had a mouse for the Apple II line although I 'm not sure if it overlapped with the Lisa and Mac . The first Lisa had its own operating system which used an early version of Bill Atkinson 's quickdraw routines , had overlapping windows , pull down menus although if memory serves it had a document model more like OpenDoc than what the Mac had a bit later . After the Mac came out in 1984 the Lisa was rebranded " Macintosh XL " and it used an early version of the Macintosh OS until it was phased out . In short , the Lisa was the bridge between the ideas that Jobs , Atkinson and others had seen at Xerox PARC and the Mac . Here 's an excellent history : <URL>
Yes - the computer side of things is the same , but the newer cord layout is needed for Airs or when the space around the port is restricted . The ' L-shaped ' MagSafe adapters were just a newer design which meant the cable went backwards instead of outwards . They should fit just fine and I 've used one or two third-party ones in the past . Just as long as you pick the right power-output you should be fine . Here 's a <URL> article on the matter
end question
start question
How can I back up my OSX 10.6 Installation DVD and create a bootable USB drive ?
Well , here are a few things : 1 ) That OS X installation disk ( 10.6 ) , will only install Snow Leopard for your 2009 MBP You can not use that disk for OS X installs on other machines 2 ) Generally , the applications disk is nearly useless . Your milage may vary , but I 've never , ever used them . 3 ) Obviously your external drive ( USB you say ? ) will have to have enough space to boot the installation process . I 'd recommend 8 + GB if you will actually use this thing . However , you will only need a usb drive as large as the disk image file that we will create later on . So , lets get started . There are probably guides out there that have more comprehensive answers than this , but I digress . You need to use Disk Utility for the following steps . It should be in your Utilities folder . Put the OS X install disk into your Macbook , while your USB drive is also in the computer . Wipe your USB drive , and reformat it as Mac OS Journaled Create a disk image of the CD , saving it to your computer 's hard drive . Once you have created the disk image , it should be on the left pane of the Disk Utility window . Click on it , then select the ' Restore ' tab to the right . You will want the Source to be the disk image file ( the OS X install disk ) , and the Target to be the USB drive . Let me know how it goes ! Charlie
Given the rather tricky use of hard-linked directories , access control settings and other special filesystem features I doubt that you will find a cloud storage which supports all this . Options you may want to consider : copy the whole Time Machine drive into the cloud as an image ( requires a lot of bandwidth at least for the initial copy ) use to periodically copy your data to a remote ( cloud ) system
Yes - when you set the Time Machine to back up to the Time Capsule - you will include the internal drive by default . I would let a couple of backups complete , and then go to the settings for time machine under options and make sure the external drive is not excluded . Kick off a a backup with the external drive connected to make sure it works . If the drive is n't connected when a back up event arrives , the internal will get backed up - but the software will remember and resume backing up the external any time it is connected and a back up happens . You do n't need to always have the external drive connected for this to work , you just lose some chances to back it up when it 's not connected .
As @hirnwunde has pointed in the comments , the article from <URL> works ! From the Finder , open the Applications folder , and then Utilities . Open the Boot Camp Assistant , and then click Continue . The next screen should give you a list of options . UITS recommends making the USB drive installer first . You do n't need to install Windows or download the support software at this time , as it will be easier to do both later . To proceed : a. Verify that the USB drive you will be writing to is plugged in . b. Uncheck the Install Windows 7 or later version and Download the latest Windows support software from Apple options . c. Check Create a Windows 7 or later install disk and click Continue . Your USB drive should be listed in the " Destination disk " area . Use choose to browse to your . iso file ; after selecting it , click Continue . If prompted , confirm your action and/or provide an administrator 's password . The process of writing the . iso file to the USB drive can take 20 minutes or longer .
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
Simply re-download Lion from the Mac App Store and then use Disk Utility to restore the DMG file to a USB stick .
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
You certainly can . In iTunes , you can choose where your music library is stored : If you want multiple iTunes accessing the library , it can get complicated . If other music players just use the folder structure , it should just work . Extra scripts and config options can be set up so that iTunes uses a small local library if the network drive is not mounted , etc. .
That 's pretty normal to see only the files for windows , when you are mounting the ISO image on a windows ! Even if you have inserted a MAC OS Installation DVD ( physical ) into tray and openned it in a windows machine , you would have seen only the Windows files and not the MAC files .
so I figured this out . First of , SD card and USB flash drive use different kernel in OS X , so the solution is not universal . Fist of , if you use USB flash drive : In your terminal type Type your password ( use an admin account ) , then What this does is that it unload and reload the USB storage kernel extension system wise , so it is an equivalent of unplug and replug your USB storage device after the ejection . Similarly , we can do that with SD card reader too ! Type : Tada ! Be careful tho , once you unload the kernel and forget to reload the kernel , you will not be able to read the device at all even if you physically unplug and plugin the device .
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
If you use Disk Utility to image an HFS filesystem into one dmg file , the resulting file is portable no matter what filesystem you store it on . Where things get complicated is incremental backups . If you want incremental backups and a DIY solution , choose a sparse disk image and use rsync to update the band files that you store on NTFS , just like Time Machine does to Time Capsule . If you really just want a painless backup solution , you might select a professional tool set such as ( in alphabetical order ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Since I listed some of the more popular incremental backup software packages ( some are hosted , some you can self host ) , the one that seems to fit your requirement the best is the free CrashPlan software that would be self hosted and need a computer connected to the NTFS drive to host the Mac data as a backup destination .
You probably wo n't like this answer , but as far as I know , there is no legal way to burn those episodes onto a DVD in a way that is playable in your DVD player . The problem is that the iTunes episodes are encrypted with Apple 's FairPlay DRM and DVD players do not know how to decrypt them . In order to make the videos playable in a DVD player , you would need to circumvent the DRM and this is illegal in many countries . As an alternative , you could buy an AppleTV and hook it up to your television . At $ 99 , it is a relatively inexpensive investment , and it would allow you to stream your iTunes shows to your TV while keeping your laptop and iPad free for your own use .
<URL> <URL> There are also some free alternatives , most notable : <URL> and <URL> .
<URL> details a way to do this . Basically you 'll create ( or modify ) the file and add a line similar to : The actual UUID will vary , you can find the UUID for your disk in : In Mac OS X Panther , Disk Utility and the diskutil command does n't display the UUID value . But if you look in the system.log file , when the disk is mounted , you can see something similar to this ( line breaks added for narrower display ) : FireWire HD / Volumes/FireWire HD ... localhost diskarbitrationd [ 87 ] : disk1s10 hfs F0E430C1-5558-3BB3-9FA9-6904B663FEEA Mac OS X Disc / Volumes/Mac OS X Disc The string before the volume name is the UUID for the disk .
If your goal is to completely wipe all data which is on your current boot disk , then follow the procedure below . Insert the Mac OS X CD . Restart the computer . Immediately after the startup sound , press and hold the " C " key to start up from CD . When the Installer screen appears , do not click Continue . Instead , choose Installer > Open Disk Utilities . Select the hard drive to erase . Click the Erase tab . Select the volume format from the Volume Format pop-up menu . Click Options . Select the checkbox for " Zero out data " . ( <URL> ) Click OK . Click Erase . The reason to perform this procedure as described above is it removes all traces of data by securely wiping the entire disk . This means that even with recovery tools , somebody could n't find what was on your disk . It 's the best way to wipe a disk if you 're selling/disposing of your computer or hard drive . UPDATE : Some additional information regarding theories on multi-pass erases can be found here : <URL> TLDR ; Its generally unnecessary with modern disk drives
Open Terminal , and type this command to list all partitions on your hard drive or SSD : Identify the " Recovery HD . " For example : Then run the following ( replacing [ ID ] with your identifier ( will most often be disk0s3 ) . So the following would look like : The disk image inside the Recovery HD partition has been marked invisible , so use the Terminal command to mount it : Now , from the newly mounted Mac OS X Base System Image , double-click the ' Install Mac OS X ' application and proceed past the licensing agreement . Choose the external drive or spare partition when the installer asks where you 'd like to install OS X Lion . Once the installer completes the download , do not restart your system . Rather , quit the installer . If you restart , you 'll likely lose the local Lion installer . Once you have the InstallESD.dmg in the Mac OS X Install Data folder , you can burn it to a DVD , or image it to a USB flash drive to create your very own Lion boot disk . This article was adapted from : <URL> All credits go to : <URL>
I personally have n't seen an easy setting which will let you choose a destination while the course is being downloaded . You still have two options : In iTunes go to Preferences and then select Advanced tab on top . There is an option to change the iTunes Media folder location . You can connect a USB drive and temporarily select that drive for downloads . I would recommend backing up your iTunes library before you try it out . Also , do n't forget to change it back . If you have enough space on your hard drive you can wait until the download completes and then copy the downloaded files to any location you want . iTunes downloads are stored in the following directory usually . ( unless one has selected some other location ) ~ / Music/iTunes/iTunes Media There are separate folders under this for downloaded Mobile Applications ( ) and iTunes U content also .
In order to create a Time Machine backup to an unsupported drive ( pretty much anything that 's not formatted HFS + ) you need to run the following Terminal command : Your share will now show up as a valid Time Machine destination in the Time Machine Preference Pane . Time Machine will then create a disk image on that drive that will act just like a HFS + drive for Time Machines purposes ( hard linking , etc. ) . One advantage of using a disk image over using the entire drive is that you can limit the size it will grow to of the disk image using Disk Utility . Be sure to check Louis Gerbarg 's <URL> as well for why it 's unsupported and you have to jump through a hoop to enable it .
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
end question
start question
Does Adobe Photoshop CS ( version 8 ) run on Snow Leopard ?
It does run , but Snow Leopard does not install Rosetta by default . Rosetta is needed to run PowerPC applications on Intel Macs . You can install Rosetta from the Snow Leopard disk . I believe you will be prompted to do this when you try to run Photoshop .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
As far as I know , the iPhone 4 is the only device capable of running iOS 7 that ca n't be updated to iOS 8 . Ref : Wikipedia - <URL> - &amp; others
If you have an old AppleTV it may be <URL> , but to me it seems a bit like a hack . And I would n't be at all surprised if the license does n't allow it . Your Snow Leopard license is probably an upgrade license for Leopard ( Apple does n't sell hardware without OS , so they only sell upgrade licenses I think ) , and I doubt the Apple TV runs the default version of Leopard . If you can install Snow Leopard then do n't use updates , as the kernel needs to be replaced :)
Okay . . Apple have a perfectly workable website titled " Create a bootable installer for OS X " ( <URL> ) Which tells you what to do via the Terminal , once you have successfully downloaded Install OS X El Capitan.app , Install OS X Yosemite.app and Install OS X Mavericks.app . Their instructions are as follows : EDIT : note , added macOS Sierra , which works with the same method - but is not listed on their website macOS Sierra OS X El Capitan OS X Yosemite OS X Mavericks I was able to use these commands from the Terminal , onto a Disk Utility - made 5 partition USB stick . I verified it with option-down-during-boot ( alt-down-during-boot ) and both of them booted up fine . I was unable to find an OS X Snow Leopard installer from my hard drive or elsewhere , so I 'm considering this question answered . Note : Mountain Lion installer app does not have " createinstallmedia " like Yosemite + Mavericks do , hence I did n't install that one on a USB stick - for that , one would have to use a secondary set of instructions for installing the installer to a USB stick via the usual way ( Disk Utility , mounting , copying , copying some more . . )
From the <URL> page 2 Transfer . You may not rent , lease , lend , sell , redistribute or sublicense the Apple Software . Subject to the restrictions set forth below , you may , however , make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your license rights to the Apple Software ( in its original form as provided by Apple ) to another party , provided that : ( a ) the transfer must include all of the Apple Software , including all its component parts ( excluding Apple Boot ROM code and ﬁrmware ) , original media , printed materials and this License ; ( b ) you do not retain any copies of the Apple Software , full or partial , including copies stored on a computer or other storage device ; and ( c ) the party receiving the Apple Software reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License . <URL> , but the terms of the licence clearly anticipated your wish to sell .
<URL> , released July 20 , 2011 , drops support for all versions of Windows XP and Vista . It supports 32-bit or 64-bit Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium , Professional , or Ultimate . <URL> from Apple Support .
<URL> currently says : " Note for Lion users : There is no official release supporting Mac OS X 10.7 yet , but you can test the <URL> if you like . " I usually do n't upgrade to a new major version of OS X until MacPorts has released their first official support for it . I agree with Jerry Jacobs that you should probably back up your hierarchy before attempting . Then you could try doing to see if that upgrades you from 1.9.2 ( or whatever ) to the 2.0.0 release candidate . If it does , then you can try . I would n't try doing a on Lion without at least being on the 2.0.0 release candidate of MacPorts .
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
As you can find <URL> , in the Apple Developers webpage : Xcode 7 requires a Mac running OS X version 10.10.4 or later . It includes SDKs for watchOS 2.0 , iOS 9 , and OS X version 10.11 . As you see in the attached pic , Yosemite can still be valid to run XCode7 , if it is updated to the 10.10.4 + version required . <URL>
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
Windows 8 needs Boot Camp 5.1 Your Macbook can only run Boot Camp from DVD , not from USB [ same for any Superdrive-euipped Macbook ] &amp; also can , as far as I can tell , only run Boot Camp 4 . That means your only choices are Windows XP or Vista , 32-bit . See <URL>
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
Yes it is possible but it will not be easy . You will probably need to jailbreak your iPad and follow similar procedures when installing Android .
Short answer is no . Cocoa is not designed as a remote procedure call ( RPC ) - esque protocol , while X is . You can not tunnel the interfaces of Cocoa applications like you know it from X11 natively , only using protocols like VNC that transfer the actual bitmap rather than the rendering instructions . On the other hand , you are able to use remotely running X applications via SSH .
Yes it works . I have macOS Sierra with Xcode 7.3.1 . Tested : Simulators Debug on device Validate/Upload to store CocoaPods
The current version ( iTunes 10 ) will run on a PowerPC machine but it has some small limitations ( primarily it can not play High Definition video from the iTunes Store ) System Requirements : Mac computer with an Intel , PowerPC G5 or G4 processor Intel , PowerPC G5 or 1.0 GHz PowerPC G4 or faster processor is required to play Standard Definition video from the iTunes Store 2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo or faster processor is required to play HD video , an iTunes LP , or iTunes Extras from the iTunes Store Mac OS X version 10.5 or later <URL> ( iTunes Download Page )
Go to the photo in Photos , tap Edit , then tap the Crop button to show the Rotate button . Tapping the Crop button is what 's new here as in iOS 7 this was n't required .
Its perfectly safe . You might run into problems with the trackpad driver ( i did ) but a quick search here was all i needed to fix it .
I would run <URL> on it and then you 'll have some actual statistics to make comparisons with and go from there . I would guess your HDD is the problem .
end question
start question
Is there a way to differentiate in iOS mail notifications by account ?
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
This is kind of a yes/no question . No , most people ca n't or wo n't be bothered to turn them off . Yes - you can turn off all network access or block the update servers . The iOS 9 itself does not have a toggle you can flip and the software is designed to let you know the update is available . I 'll leave my opinion aside whether Apple designed this correctly , but from a security standpoint . If you are on iOS 9 - upgrading to patch levels does n't break existing apps and solves known security , performance , energy efficiency and bug issues , so declining a 9.0.x or 9.x update is far harder to justify than just not upgrading to 9.0 in the first place . The best technical way to block iOS 9 updates is hosted on JAMF Nation discussions : <URL> You 'll want to have control over your network , have an MDM and the energy to configure your devices to avoid updates . Basically , preventing this is a short term battle and I know it makes sense to try it from time to time or if your organization needs to buy time - but it 's a pain since the design is to push updates on each device that connects to the internet .
Unfortunately this does not work out of the box . But there is a nice and free plugin called <URL> which gives you this exact feature back , and many more on top . ( See Version 4.0.8 ( Mac OS X 10.9 ) by clicking on " Old Versions " ) . Please close your Mail.app before installing .
OK , figured it out , it 's a bit kludgy , but works . In the javascript console ( the single line at the bottom of the web inspector ) - type this : This forces a page reload on the remote device .
The keys h and j should respectively decrease and increase the delay .
You can still compress a video and bypass Mail Drop when you compose a new email and manually attach the video ( by long clicking email body ) .
The current version of Google Chrome for Mac ( 14.0.835.202 ) is not correctly supporting this behavior , even when the System Preference to " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " is selected in the General Preferences pane ( like the Mail app or Safari does ) . There is an open bug ticket on this issue with Google so at some point the " remember full screen state after close " should be resolved . Here is the bug report link : <URL>
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
If you have asked Siri to Send a new Message to some person , Siri Normally asks " Do you want me to send it " when it thinks you have finished . Saying " Send " normally works . And Siri will say " Ok then I will send the Text message . . " I do not think there is a way to do it after you have used dictation . Apples dictations <URL>
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
This sure takes me back to my university days ... <URL> has still got to be one of the best terminal-based mail clients out there . It 's been around longer than I 'd like to admit . It 's available as a <URL> package : Overall you 'll get a much better experience using something like Mutt than you will with something like because it supports IMAP , POP3 and SMTP -- you do n't have to learn sendmail or anything like that to get it to work with your accounts . You can even use Mutt with Gmail if that 's your bag . See <URL> . Pretty colours ...
In OS X 10.11 the default under System Preferences > Mission Control for the Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is checked . So to not have your Spaces rearranged on you , uncheck the checkbox for that setting . <URL> To have an App tied to a particular Desktop , open the target App on that Desktop , then control-click ( right-click ) the target App 's Dock Tile and select : Options > Assign To > This Desktop <URL> To have an App launch automatically upon Login , go to System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > select the User > click Login Items and add the App . <URL>
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
You can only change what a right swipe does in iOS . You can change what the middle option on a left swipe is , but a full left swipe will still be delete/archive . Check out settings - > mail , contacts and calendar - > swipe options .
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
This is a <URL> . Cellular downloads are limited to a file size of 20 MB or smaller . See comment below , iOS 5.1 has increased this limit to 50 MB .
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
It <URL> the AppleScript is run within Quicksilver 's process ( depending on how you run it ) . If that 's the case , you 'd need to relaunch Quicksilver . If it 's not completely frozen , you can do this quickly with ⌃ ⌘ Q . It might also be possible to set some kind of timeout in the script to prevent it from hanging indefinitely .
Yes ! You only need to enter from safari and not from the app . You choose the song you want to listen to , press the home button , swipe up to multitask and press play !
end question
start question
How to make a small storage in my macbook to act as a USB stick ?
You mean use the partition as a USB drive on an external scanner ? If you start the computer in target disk mode and plug it into the scanner with a USB cord , this may work . If you 're running Mountain Lion or Mavericks , you can use Disk Utility to add a small , FAT formatted partition to your hard drive without erasing it or losing any data . Connecting that partition to an external scanner may prove to be trickier than installing drivers for a scanner .
Assuming you are using bash : If you activate emacs shortcuts with you can also use Emacs to edit the command line : Type Ctrl-XCtrl-E at the prompt to start Emacs Paste and edit your clipboard content into the Emacs buffer Use Ctrl-XCtrl-C to exit Emacs and automatically run the command ( s ) .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
You can define a preset from the print dialog . First change the settings for what you want , and then choose the Presets > Save As ... menu . If you leave your preset selected , it will be selected the next time also , so you will never have to change it .
TextEdit > Preferences > Open and Save Check " RTF-files as RTF-code instead of formated text " and reopen the file .
The old ( pre-Lightling ) connection " unofficially " supported a USB keyboard by plugging it into the <URL> USB port . I not sure if this is still possible with the new Lightning port , although , some companies do make a <URL> . Connecting the Keyboard this way lets you use it in any app that supports Bluetooth keyboards ( which I think is pretty much any writing app ) . It does , however , show you a warning on screen when you connect the keyboard , but you can just dismiss it . If you 'd like to read more about what you could do with the Camera Connetion Kit USB port , check out the Using the CCK for more than just photography section of <URL> . On a side note , you can also use you keyboard to fully control your iOS device by turning on some accessibility settings . I do n't remember exactly what I used when I tried this , but it was either : or : So in short , yes , you will be able to use you computer to control an app through the thunder connection , but depending on what you 'd like to do , you may need to be a little clever about exactly how you implement this so you take advantage of some unofficial iOS features . And , if this does n't work for what you want , I know a lot of apps ( <URL> ) connect to the PC via WiFi . These apps send commands to the PC , but I 'm fairly sure you can make the connection go both ways as long as you do n't need to control anything outside your own app . Hope this helps !
Deeper discharge/charge cycles shorten an Li-Ion battery 's lifespan faster that shallow ones . ( e.g. . One 100 % cycle is more wearing that four 25 % cycles , etc. ) Therefore , keeping an iPad or iPhone on a charger or always topped off between short uses will tend to lengthen the battery 's total lifespan by reducing the number of deeper cycles per annum , all other thing being equal ( such as total time of use ) . " Calibrating " has almost nothing to do with the battery lifespan . It 's mostly needed to help the battery gauge icon behave more accurately . Once or twice a year is probably good enough for that purpose .
There are several ways to accomplish this . Let 's list your requirements : Multiple Macs . Shared files between them . Wired network . Backups either online or local . Remote access to files . While OS X Server is certainly useful here ( especially if you wanted a VPN ) , it is n't necessary . Assuming all of your PCs are on the network , I would set up a NAS ( network attached storage device ) and locate my files there . Many NAS also have the ability to share files out remotely . Alternatively , you could load Dropbox , Box.net , or some similar service on each device , and share specific folders to each user account . This would allow you to more easily integrate devices external to your network into your file sharing system . Each such service offers varying tiers of free space , and you pay as you add onto them . An added bonus would be the ability to roll back file changes , or recover deletions ( at least DropBox has this feature . ) As with any setup , your mileage will vary .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
Okay . . Apple have a perfectly workable website titled " Create a bootable installer for OS X " ( <URL> ) Which tells you what to do via the Terminal , once you have successfully downloaded Install OS X El Capitan.app , Install OS X Yosemite.app and Install OS X Mavericks.app . Their instructions are as follows : EDIT : note , added macOS Sierra , which works with the same method - but is not listed on their website macOS Sierra OS X El Capitan OS X Yosemite OS X Mavericks I was able to use these commands from the Terminal , onto a Disk Utility - made 5 partition USB stick . I verified it with option-down-during-boot ( alt-down-during-boot ) and both of them booted up fine . I was unable to find an OS X Snow Leopard installer from my hard drive or elsewhere , so I 'm considering this question answered . Note : Mountain Lion installer app does not have " createinstallmedia " like Yosemite + Mavericks do , hence I did n't install that one on a USB stick - for that , one would have to use a secondary set of instructions for installing the installer to a USB stick via the usual way ( Disk Utility , mounting , copying , copying some more . . )
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
Take a look at this SuperUser question <URL> . It recommends installing and using the command : You can then use a tool like <URL> to trigger the command <URL> the power failure . <URL> I work on Power Manager , so feel free to ask technical questions .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
I have an external hard disk connected to an AirPort Extreme . Time Machine wirelessly backs up my MacBook Pro to it . In this regard , it works the same as TimeCapsule but as the hard disk is external ( and you get to choose it ) , it does n't suffer from the same reliability problems . I 've found the AirPort Extreme to be a very good Wireless Access Point , too ( and not just for Apple devices ) .
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
I have done this many times since I posted this question . Create usb stick like this : Put the USB stick into your Mac and press the power button while holding down Command ⌘ + Option + O+F At the prompt , type the following : Note : If you are booting linux then use , but if you are booting a Mac OS use . Note 2 : If your stick is in the right side of the machine , then you need to do this : Note 3 : If these commands do n't work , then there is most likely a problem with your media or iso file . I have found that Ubuntu , Debian , and openSUSE work great . I can not get Fedora or Gentoo to boot this way yet . My optical drive does not work anymore , so this is how I install OS X on my machine . I made a live USB stick of the OS X install disc this way .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
end question
start question
Upgrading and selling my MacBook , how do I clean install Lion and iLife ?
If you want to sell your machine but also include installed software , there is a way to set this up that will ensure none of your personal data is on the machine , as well as provide a better box opening experience for your buyer . I would suggest doing a <URL> of your hard disk first . Then , install Lion . Configure a dummy user account named " test " or " admin " or something generic Install the software you want to include Restart your machine in <URL> by holding &#8984; + S on startup . Very carefully , do the following : ( This mounts the root volume so you can make changes to it . ( This removes the flag that tells Setup Assistant that it 's done ) ( Replace " shortname " with the user account name you set up before . This removes the user plist ) ( Replace " shortname " with the user account name you set up before . This removes the User directory ) ( This resets preferences ) ( This restarts the computer ) Verify that your machine starts up to the Setup Assistant and you 're done . That way , your buyer can start up the machine to the Setup Assistant and still retain the software you want to provide them with . Good luck .
Here is the procedure I recommend , for those who are comfortable with the command-line and with Homebrew : Install Homebrew . Run the following on the command line ( in Terminal ) : Edit your shell startup files to ensure that comes first in your . If you use vim as or , add ` export VISUAL = ' mvim - f ' to your environment ( <URL> ) . Check that you installed everything correctly by running Now , you can run the graphical MacVim on a file by running from the command-line . Or , you can run the text-based editor by running . Also , if other programs ( e.g. , git ) fork off a separate editor , they 'll run the graphical MacVim . See also <URL> and <URL> .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
You can install from scratch . To do so : Download the update from the App store . Create an install DVD or an <URL> . Boot from the install drive ( Holding alt or option during boot ) . Using disk utility format the desired partition . Launch the install process on the newly formatted partition . Enjoy the fresh install . Edit : One thing to note is the fact that you do n't have to format the entire hard drive . You can only format the partition containing your OS and do the install on that partition . If you want to install Mavericks on a different partition to allow multi boot ( Mavericks/Mountain Lion ) you can use another partition to do so as long as there is enough free space on it . One important tip to remember is the ability of disk utility at creating additional partitions : Open DiskUtility.app Select the desired hard drive Go to the Partitions tab Under the partitions list click on the add button to create a new partition .
I have it on good authority that all Lion installs are a standard install followed by a migration of data ( local , remote or Time Machine based ) so as long as you are following the official steps , having less to migrate will only be more buggy if you add that " bad data " once the install has finished . If the software installed poorly , the same software should have the same bugs boot after boot after boot . Can you reproduce any of these issues ? It sure sounds like a hardware ( RAM or HDD ) issue instead of some bug in the installer . The only way to know is to clean install Snow Leopard or dig into the specifics . I do n't think enough people have run the installer in the DVD manner you mentioned for any " word on the street reports " to be useful . Sorry I do n't have a better idea other than going through the usual issue isolation steps . <URL> <URL>
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
You can remove all settings and information from your iPhone using " Erase All Content and Settings " in Settings > General > Reset . If that does n't help you can also try the same from iTunes , see <URL> for details . Connect your iPhone to your computer Select it when it appears under Devices Select the Summary tab , and click the Restore button verify to reset to factory settings and erase all data Afterwards you can restore your data again from a previous backup in iTunes .
Internet Recovery If you <URL> , hold ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt + R on boot to begin . An image of OS X will be downloaded from the internet , and can be installed on the internal SSD normally . Once this is complete , you can restore your data from your external drive .
Install iFile for your iPhone/iPod/iPad / whatever ( the free version will do ) and navigate to / var/mobile/Wynd / Swype . There you can find the dictionary and you can edit however you want . Now I have a question for you , where will you find the complete dictionary of words ? :)
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
always is your home folder ( for instance ) . If ~ / . vim exists , that 's where you 'll find it . Unless you 've used vim before , the folder likely will not already exist , so to create the folder , open Terminal.app and type Assuming you downloaded ColorSamplerPack.zip to your Downloads folder you can then proceed with to unpack the content into the folder . A restart of gvim may be required afterwards . On second thought , the same result can be accomplished by just opening Terminal.app and executing
Yes , the App store downloads an installer for Mountain Lion and stores it in the usual spot - / Applications . You should only need a network connection after installing to get updates , etc. . and not to run the installer outright . Be aware that the installation process deletes the installer once you are done installing the OS , so you might make a backup copy of the Install OS X Mountain Lion program before you run it .
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
UPDATE : With XCode 7 it is now possible to deploy an app on your own iOS9 + device for free . Only if you need to publish your app to the AppleStore will you need the paid membership . See qqbenq 's answer for more details . Without being a member , you can only run your app in the simulator . You must be a paid member to be able to install the app on a device . <URL> : Start developing for iOS and Mac OS X with the Xcode IDE , Dashcode , Instruments , Interface Builder , iOS Simulator and a suite of additional developer tools . <URL> : Test and debug your code on iPad , iPhone and iPod touch to finalize your applications .
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
Most switching power supplies use an EMI filter on the front , that looks like this : <URL> -- Schematic created using <URL> The " ground " is connected to the " ground " on the secondary side as well as the earth pin on the plug . If the plug has no earth pin ( or the socket does not have it ) , then when you touch it and an earthed object , a small current flows trough caps C2 and C3 . In most power supplies there is also a small capacitor bridging the primary and secondary windings of the transformer ( again , for EMI reasons ) .
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
Open Terminal , and type this command to list all partitions on your hard drive or SSD : Identify the " Recovery HD . " For example : Then run the following ( replacing [ ID ] with your identifier ( will most often be disk0s3 ) . So the following would look like : The disk image inside the Recovery HD partition has been marked invisible , so use the Terminal command to mount it : Now , from the newly mounted Mac OS X Base System Image , double-click the ' Install Mac OS X ' application and proceed past the licensing agreement . Choose the external drive or spare partition when the installer asks where you 'd like to install OS X Lion . Once the installer completes the download , do not restart your system . Rather , quit the installer . If you restart , you 'll likely lose the local Lion installer . Once you have the InstallESD.dmg in the Mac OS X Install Data folder , you can burn it to a DVD , or image it to a USB flash drive to create your very own Lion boot disk . This article was adapted from : <URL> All credits go to : <URL>
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
If you intend to use the Asus MB169C + while also charging your MacBook , you will need an adaptor , hub , dock , etc. . Here are some examples for you : <URL> <URL> <URL> NOTE : I have not used any of these personally - I have linked to them just to provide some examples of how you can achieve what you want . However , there are many products that will meet your needs varying from cheap to expensive .
end question
start question
Preview.app : easily print current page only ?
Preview under Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) has a " Print Selected Page . . " under its File menu ( or option-command-P ) . This works regardless of showing the Sidebar or not .
I recommend and use <URL> ( donation-ware ) . It 's much more flexible than what Apple provides .
Print Job scheduling was removed in OS X 10.7 Lion . As a workaround , you can pause the printer , print what you want then continue the printer . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this on the following page : <URL>
<URL> seems to do that by default : It 's not really drag and drop , but you could also <URL> like this :
Hmmm probably not the way you want it . You do n't mention what are you trying to print ( Word ? Pages ? TextEdit ? ) , If you use Pages , for example , you could create a template that inserts a page break in the 1st page ( at the beginning ) , so your real 1st page would be the 2nd page . Then use that template as your " blank document " . I know , simple solution but works ;) UPDATE Since you need to usually add a blank page to a PDF , you can use preview for that . Position yourself in the first page and do an : Edit - > Insert Blank Page
One of the easiest ways to do this is to use <URL> . It will let you bind a keyboard shortcut or a trackpad shortcut to many commands , including maximize window . Once you are in the BTT settings page , do the following : Go to the Keyboard tab on top . On the bottom near Keyboard shortcut , enter in whichever keyboard shortcut you want . For Predefined action , choose Maximize Window . There are many other options related to maximizing besides " Maximize Window " : Maximize Window Left Maximize Window Right Maximize Window To Bottom Half Maximize Window To Top Half Maximize To Next Monitor
It appears that at present , that is n't an option . When I created a signature file using the FaceTime camera , I see that first of all , there is no unencrypted graphic file created by Preview . Preview did a new key in Keychain titled " Preview signature privacy " , suggesting that the signature files go directly from Preview 's camera interface to an encrypted file . There is n't a supported way to add a graphic as a signature , and the encryption makes it difficult to bypass the approved new signature process .
This is currently not possible within iOS . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
It is also the tab key . The difference to Windows is , that the " return " key always pushes the default button ( which is the colored one ) . The currently selected button ( which can be changed using the tab key ) is marked through a colored border . If you 'd like to push this button , you have to press the space bar .
This is currently not possible . You can have it at page 1 and page 2 using a normal footer as you 're probably aware , but not automatically move to the last page of a document . You can do it manually as you 're also probably aware by using the section inspector , but that 's still not automatic and would require you to delete it from page 1 and then add it back to page 2 . You can notify Apple that you would like this feature implemented using their Pages feedback page : <URL>
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
Try this ... Save the file locally on your windows computer . Right click on the file and select rename . Remove . pages extension and enter . zip as the extension and press enter . Open the zip file and it should allow you open the file and its contents .
I 've finally found a solution that supports logical page numbers like the other PDF readers I have tried , but also respects custom page numbers embedded within the PDF . <URL> shows the page numbers properly . It 's $ 4.99
NB this seems to be fixed in the most recent versions of OS X , so workaround perhaps no longer required ... Workaround Probably the simplest / safest option is to ' flatten ' the PDF before sending it , by printing it to a new PDF . After completing your form in Preview , go to the Print menu ( ) and use the PDF drop-down in the bottom-left , selecting to to generate a new , ' flattened ' PDF . Flattened simply means that all annotations ( including data in the form ) become indistinguishable from the actual content of the PDF , as if they were part of it all along . This means you ca n't edit them anymore ( in the new , printed PDF ) , which can be desirable , but also means they 'll show up properly in Adobe . The Problem The actual cause of the problem is <URL> from Adobe , and that blog post also includes a script for Acrobat users to recover the data from a form filled in using Preview.app ( it turns out Preview puts the data in the form , but does n't specify how it should ' appear ' , so Acrobat shows it as blank/invisible ) . I 'll leave it up to the reader to decide whether this is a bug in Adobe 's software ( for not showing form data without a specified " appearance " ) or a bug in Apple 's software ( for not including the " appearance " information ) . If you 've been affected by this bug , please consider notifying one/both of these companies of the issue : Apple 's <URL> or <URL> sites . Adobe 's <URL> or <URL> sites .
This has been covered in a <URL> . I encourage you to watch the video , but I 'll summarize here . First , create a little AppleScript that presses the two keyboard shortcuts . Open AppleScript Editor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) and paste this in : Save that as a script in ~ / Library/Scripts ( create the folder if it does n't already exist ) . Now , install the app <URL> . It 's free for up to 10 scripts . Open the FastScripts preferences , find your Select Word script , and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . Now you can press your chosen shortcut in any app and the current word will be selected .
Yes , it actually is normal . If you are in a well lit room , then the backlighting will refuse to turn on . So no , the onscreen graphic would not retain the same number of bars unless you stay in the same room or do not change into different lighting environments .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
Create an Automator print plugin that prints as a PDF-X . Open Automator.app Select " Print Plugin " at the Choose a type for your document screen Select " PDF " from the Actions menu Drag " Apple Quartz Filter to the PDF Documents " to the workflow space on the right When prompted choose if you want to create a copy of the original , add or do n't add In the Apply Quartz Filter to PDF Documents workflow , in the Filter dropdown , choose " Create Generic PDFX-3 Document " . Choose File -- > Save Name whatever you like ( PDFX ) This will add a workflow back that allows for PDFX again . The workflow is saved in your user directory ~ / Library/PDF Services /
Perhaps this is too excessive but you could create an AppleScript which would toggle the size of the cursor . To do so just : Go to System Preferences / Universal Access and check Enable access for assistive devices , this will let you use AppleScript to query and control the user interface of most Applications . Go to / Applications / Utilities / AppleScript Editor and paste this code and save it as Application :
end question
start question
What is wired memory ?
From what I can tell , wired memory belongs to the kernel , the innermost core of Mac OS X. It 's many layers removed from the icons in the menubar , which are just ordinary apps showing themselves in an odd way . Wired memory is used for some of the core functions of the operating system -- things like keeping track of all the applications on your system , or open files and network connections , or chunks of memory used by various drivers . The " page tables " that form a map of your system 's memory are also stored in wired memory , and a system with more memory needs larger page tables . I suspect that the memory used by the integrated video chips in most Macs is wired as well , but I ca n't find anything that says that outright . In any case , much of this information is needed to manage and access memory , and so it ca n't itself be swapped out to disk ! To understand why , imagine an enormous library . Think of , for example , the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford , which has eleven million printed items . There 's no way you could possibly fit all that stuff into a single building -- certainly not one in the middle of a university campus . So instead , imagine that the librarians construct a vast warehouse . ( The real Bodleian Library has about forty sub-libraries of various descriptions , plus storage for really rare books , but this is a thought experiment . ) Most of the books are kept in the warehouse , but anything that 's been used recently is kept in the library . If you show up at the library looking for a book , and it 's in the stacks there , you can read it immediately . If not , ask a librarian and the book you want will be transported from the warehouse and given to you the next day . The information in wired memory , then , would be things like the card catalog , keys to the book delivery trucks , and maps of the route to the warehouse . If you stored these things in the warehouse , you could never retrieve books to bring them back to the library -- so they must be kept in the library at all times , lest the whole system break down . Anyway , getting back to practical considerations : wired memory is basically used by your computer for internal bookkeeping of various sorts . You should n't worry about it . And do n't worry if you have lots of " inactive " memory and little " free " memory , either . Inactive memory is basically memory that Mac OS is keeping something in on the off chance it 's needed again ; if your system needs that memory for something else , it 'll be converted to free memory without any performance hit . To extend the library metaphor , imagine that the library keeps books that have been recently used in the stacks . The space is there in the stacks ; there 's no use leaving it empty , so you might as well keep the books you already have there . There 's no harm in it , and sometimes someone will be able to pick up a book immediately that he would otherwise have had to wait for . Similarly , inactive memory can only speed things up ; it ca n't hurt your computer , so do n't worry about it being too high . Really , you should n't worry about your memory use unless wired + active starts getting close to the 8 GB in your computer . That 's when you could get into trouble , because that 's when Mac OS will start consuming disk space to add " extra " memory , damaging performance considerably . Otherwise , you might as well have something in that memory . Ultimately , unused memory is just a waste of power -- if you have it , you might as well put it to use .
Here is the result of my conversation with Crucial . Given their quality and reliability as manufacturer and supplier , I personally am tempted to spend a little more and source the upgrade kit directly from them . If any problems then should be easy to have it fixed . [ Mark : Hi Can you tell me if CT3309352 - Crucial and CT2K4G3S1067M are the same part numbers for a Crucial upgrade 8GB kit for the MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " or are these two similar but different units produced by Crucial ? Crucial Agent : When you order by advanced search or by motherboard/system information online , you are shown the " external " part number CT3309352 . The part number that you see on your module is the actual module base part number CT2K4G3S1067M . If you order by advanced search or motherboard/system information , the external part number is included in the packing list with your memory module . The modules are exactly the same . They are the same part . And will work in your MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " . Mark : Thank you . So you are saying depending on the method of search , you will get two different numbers but they are a reference to the identical unit that will be compatible , with above MacBook Pro ? Crucial Agent : For some systems yes . Some times you can look up just by the part number CT2K4G3S1067M and put it in to find it , but it is not always show any results when doing this . Normally only the servers show the actual part number . But this one is listed as compatible for your system and will work . ] So there you go this should help . Cheers Mark
It 's the " Inactivity Sound , " called " Bass , " that <URL> plays by default when you have n't been using it for a few hours . And I thought my computer was overheating ! I ca n't understand why anyone would make a web app that non-obviously plays a repeating , scary sound on repeat hours after the user last interacted with it . Terrible . Anyway , that 's one mystery solved . <URL>
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
I had some marginally bad memory that would crash the system occasionally , so for that reason I put the original memory back , and since that time I have n't received this error . So in my case it 's probably related to bad RAM , as odd as that may seem .
I ca n't say much about preventing this , but there is no need to reboot . Just kill Finder , using Force Quit from the apple menu or in a Terminal window . A new Finder will then be started in the old one 's place .
That is the Option key ( Alt on Windows ) . It 's not the same as shift - it 's generally used as a secondary modifier for keyboard shortcuts ( Command being the primary modifier ) and for shortcuts that do n't perform an action ( Option-8 is a bullet point and Option-Shift-8 is a degree symbol ) .
What is Steam ? According to them , they are The Ultimate Online Game Platform . What this actually means is that they are a portal for you to buy , play and update games . With certain benefits . But " steam " is just that . They sell games ( more on this later ) , they offer you a community where you can have Friends , Chat with them , unlock achievements , etc. . If you 're a user of an iPhone/Pod/Pad that has <URL> in it , think of Steam as a pseudo <URL> . Why Steam and not normal retailer ? The advantages of Steam are a few , and I could n't list them all because some things may not be better for everybody , but let 's just say that the strength of the platform and what makes it different from buying a boxed game could be summarized in a few bullets ( in no particular order ) : Very easy to buy a game ( and discover new ones ) Instant buy , start downloading , no delivery costs . Automatic updates without having to worry If you buy a game on your Macintosh and one day decide to play it on your Windows computer , provided that the game is supported in that Platform , you can continue your game there , as if nothing has happened . You re-download the game in your Windows machine and voilá . Friends , Achivements , Progress ... Steam as a platform sports game achievements that you unlock by playing . Discounts , sometimes you will get " cheaper " versions of the games or promos that you can take advantage of . More , I 'm sure there are other advantages but think of an AppStore for games with a plus . Can games be played independently ? Yes and no . I do n't believe you can copy that game over another machine ( tho you could probably install steam on that machine and copy the game ... I have n't tried this ) . But you can play offline if you do n't have Internet . Bonus : Is it worth ? If you have a Mac and like gaming , it 's definitely a big plus , as a lot of games get ported and put into the Steam network . If you 're in Windows , I believe the ease of use and " point and click " nature of the service make it worth . And also the fact that you do n't have to pay to use it . Did I mention it 's a free service ? ;) But Does it have Cons ? Some invaluable readers pointed out a few cons , which I will update ( and I encourage everybody to contribute ) : When you start it , it automatically updates , giving you the sensation that the client is hang . Also if your network speed is not optimal , this process can demand a lot of time . If your network connection is not good , downloading three gigabytes of game might not be the best idea , given that you usually ca n't start playing until almost most ( if not all ) the content is downloaded . In order to play offline , you have to log in , and tell steam " I 'm going offline " , which kind of voids the possibility of an unexpected loss of connectivity or forgetting to do it before disconnecting for example . I did n't mention this , but it 's important to note that not all the Windows games are available on Steam and not all work on OS X. Although decent amount ( and growing ) catalog is available , not every title is there . UPDATE : There 's a dedicating <URL> in Stack Exchange for that . Do n't hesitate asking gaming questions there too , those guys may seem like gamers , but they are n't playing at all ;)
great question ... I 've been looking for a tool that will allow me to emulate TouchCursor for Windows on the mac for a long time . Tried <URL> , DoubleCommand , and some others that I ca n't remember right now :) KeyRemap4Macbook seemed to be closest to what I needed , but I could never get around to configuring it how I wanted it . Your mileage may vary . Check out <URL> that gives some of the aforementioned programs and start playing :)
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
It 's indeed the sound Facebook makes when there is a new notification . Or at least , that 's what it sound like ( very much ) . Recently , Facebook did some testing and as you can hear on <URL> , sounds are very similar . Not very user-friendly , but luckily you can disable this sound if it 's bothering you . Go to your <URL> Uncheck the sound option
Nothing will run while the computer is asleep . Unlike humans , where sleep is different than death , when a computer sleeps it is essentially equal to being powered off . There are a few subtle differences , the primary being that it wakes up faster than from a cold boot . This is because there is enough power supplied to the RAM ( memory ) to keep it active , but this does not mean there is power supplied to the CPU ( heart ) , or that any processes are active . Any processes that are active are below the operating system , in the BIOS of the computer . This is where the " Wake On Lan " feature resides , for example .
I found someone 's <URL> to this exact request over <URL> . It 's a four year old post , but the method should still work .
As you 've noticed , the <URL> . This is by design . The 3G radio consumes less battery power . When does the iPhone switch back to 3G even if it has WiFi signal ? As soon as you wake the phone it will being re-enabling sleep-disabled services like the WiFi radio . If you were previously joined to a wireless network that is still within range your phone should re-join that network a few seconds after you wake it up . Here is where problems can crop up - a burp in your router or temporary interference can prevent the WiFi from rejoining and if your data coverage is fast enough , you may not notice you are now on paid 3G data . Especially if you are streaming video or playing a game and the menu bar is hidden . If will switch back to 3G if you tell it to forget the current Wi-Fi network it 's joined to and have it set to no auto-join any other known network in range . Or shortly after you put it back to sleep . Can I modify this behavior somewhere ? All of the Wi-Fi behaviour is set using the Settings app , under the Wi-Fi menu . You can turn the Wi-Fi radio off completely here . This will stop the phone from searching for wireless networks altogether and you 'll be running completely on cellular data services . ( See # 1 in screen shot ) You can set what the phone does if the Wi-Fi radio is on , networks are detected , but it is not currently joined to any of them . In this circumstance the phone can prompt you to join a network or do nothing and let you manually join a network if you so desire . ( See # 2 in the screen shot ) . You can also manually chose a network here . And , if you 're currently joined to a network , you can click the > arrow next to its name to get the details and , if you want to , " forget " the network and disconnect from it .
Flash controllers generally degrade gracefully , so once a block has failed , it no longer is usable , so you would expect a slow , gradual shrinking of the usable space over time . Once the majority of the blocks start reaching the limit on write cycles ( you need to store different data - not just the same bits to make real change on most flash controllers ) then this reduction of space increases more linearly with time / write cycles . So - it will be quick to not store the entire file , but a much longer time until you ca n't write to 50 % of the drive .
Ability to see per-application sound output : Check out <URL> Within Chrome , you can use the <URL> extension to see what tabs/windows are playing audio .
Yes - at the moment - those link speeds are the theoretical maximum speed at which data can transfer to or from those devices . The EFI firmware version on your MacBook Pro controls these link speeds as well as many other aspects of CPU throttling , so without reverse engineering that code - it 's hard to know what or why the link may re-negotiate at a different speed . In the past , <URL> to increase SATA link speeds for third party drives when they have done the engineering to make sure it will be stable enough - even if they do n't support those drives . Of course they also release updates to improve their OEM parts in terms of speed and reliability so you can monitor those link speeds as well as your actual bottlenecks and <URL> if you feel things are not optimally configured - especially if you have some benchmarks or other data to show that case .
I found a way to fix this issue , thought I should post it since it might help someone else . Granted this fix kinda worked for me since my fans are at their full rpm but you should read the explanation first and then choose to follow the steps yourself , anyways the info . is here : <URL>
If it 's indeed the last model of white polycarbonate " unibody " MacBook that Apple made prior to the discontinuation of the MacBook ( non-Pro/non-Air ) lineup then it will actually support 16GB of RAM ( 2x8GB PC8500 DDR3 1066MHz SO-DIMM 204 Pin ) and that 's vouched for by the specs for that system in <URL> as well as by the <URL> . You 'll want to verify your exact model identifier via the System Information app though ( this app also used to be called System Profiler in older versions of Mac OS X ) . Open up that application , select " Hardware " at the top of the sidebar pane , then look for " Model Identifier " on the right . If it reads MacBook7 ,1 and your " Processor Speed " is 2.4 GHz then you 're good to go for 16GB of memory !
Any <URL> product will do , but it 's possibly more expensive than a single Time Capsule . The advantages are a lot tho . :) You can compare the <URL> . I have used a Drobo ( not pro , not fs , not anything ) and it had problems with certain reliability , but I 've heard nice things about Drobo FS and even Drobo Pro . There are other NAS out there , so find one that you can afford , seek for reviews and go ahead :) . The nice thing about ( Drobo in this case ) is that you put " normal " drives in there , if one fails , you just replace it . BOom . That simple . It works in practice too . I 've had two drive failures while using the Drobo .
end question
start question
How to make a custom keybind that runs an applescript file ?
First , ( Automator - > New - > Service ) to paste the code , and then ( System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services ) to bind the Service to a keyboard shortcut . BetterTouchTool Karabiner
Yup , you still can do it with Quicktime Player . Download it from <URL> . I believe you can also install it from the Snow Leopard install disc . I 'm not sure about the Lion install download . Open the movie and click File > Export : Then you can select Movie to Image Sequence : Set your destination folder and watch Quicktime Player do its magic .
Palm did this with the Pre : the device , like all devices , told iTunes it was an iPod and allowed only the syncing of non-DRM content over the USB connection . As to how the iPhone sorts out what it is to tell iTunes could either be hard-coded or come from a file somewhere in the OS . Either way , this forum is really not the place the find the answer to that question ( nor do I think SO is either ) . You probably should head over to one of the myriad iPhone jailbreak forum . Searching " iPhone jailbreak forum " in Google brings up a whole host of them .
MailRaider Pro for Mac OS X does just what I need in terms of being able to open . eml files WITHOUT the need to setup a dummy account or whatever . It just works - I can just open it . I have bought it , it works on El Capitan . official site : <URL> on iTunes : <URL> It also says it handles attachments , but I have n't tried that yet .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
All files under / System/Library is protected by SIP . So in El Capitan you ca n't do that without disabling it . Boot into Recovery HD , open Terminal under Utilities menu , and type : Restart you computer . Navigate to the kext file , right click Show Package Content . Now go to Contents then you can find the Info.plist file . You might needs to change permission of the file before you can edit it . After you 're done , boot into recovery again . Open Terminal and type : Then reboot and you 're done . Note that your changes might be reverted at a macOS update .
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
is a binary available in a set of tools <URL> . It can also be installed via Homebrew with . <URL> is a SH shell script that calls AppleScript to create an alias . I 'm including the shell script here for future reference incase it goes missing from the nets .
You ca n't , at least not directly . / usr/bin/open will have told some other app to open the file , and then immediately dissociated itself from the whole affair . If you know which app did the actual open , you might be able to use scripting to tell the app to close it . Something like But that pre-supposes that you know Preview is the app , and that this is the correct syntax for telling it to close a document , and that you 've gotten the correct value for the document 's name . You can eliminate some of that uncertainty by specifying the app in the open command , and by assuming that the document will still be the front document when your script wants to close it . ( It might be more robust to refer to the app by its bundle-id rather than name but that 's barely more than a matter of style . ) In general , / usr/bin/open can open just about anything . It behaves like double-clicking , so it can " open " windows ( in Finder ) , applications ( as themselves ) , disk images ( by mounting them ) , network shares ( by connecting to them ) , or even ordinary documents ( by launching the app currently selected as the default app for that document type ) . Each of these flavors of " open " has its own flavor of " close " .
In your case , the problem is the file system on the drive as opposed to how it is connected to your Mac . The drive is most likely formatted as FAT32 system . This is a typical partitioning format that is supported by practically all computers ( windows , linux and mac os ) . FAT32 limits file sizes to 4GB and device sizes to 2TB ( or 16 TB for 4 KB sectors ) . For you to be able to store a file greater than 4GB in size , you 'd need to reformat the drive to either ExFAT ( file size is limited to 16EB , or 16 BILLION TB ) or a MacOS partition format ( called HFS plus , file size limited to 8EB , or 8 BILLION TB ) . I 'd recommend the MacOS partition format for it 's reliability , but only if you 're working in a strictly Mac OS environment . HFS plus is NOT supported by Windows . If you need to transfer files between computers of various OSs , I 'd recommend ExFAT . Note : Changing partition formats WILL DELETE ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE , so make sure you back up all the data on the drive before you start . Back up all your files on the USB drive onto a secure location on your Mac . Open Disk Utility by searching it in spot light or opening it from / Applications/Utilities Select your desired drive on the left side . Go to the " Erase " tab . Choose your desired partition format from the drop down menu , and name your drive as you please . Click " erase " Restore the files back to the drive .
Currently there is no way to jailbreak either an Airport Extreme or a Time Capsule . Whilst they are probably in the same order of difficulty as jailbreaking as say an iOS device , no one has really spent any effort on doing so . Personally I think this is probably for the following reasons : limited target audience ( low numbers of product in the world ) limited 3rd party development support
Safari downloads every file that it is not able to read ( which is pretty much anything but website-formats such as html , css , xml ) There are some plugins that open special formats . The first result from google is this one <URL>
First , ( Automator - > New - > Service ) to paste the code , and then ( System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services ) to bind the Service to a keyboard shortcut . BetterTouchTool Karabiner
As Rabarberski says , can be used to find any process that has the file open . Note that you need to run the program as root , i.e. , using , and that you can give the pathname to the file you 're interested in as an argument , so there is no need for the invocation in the hint that Rabarberski points to . Also , if a process holds a lock on the file , you 're supposed to be able to see that from the FD column in the output . See the manual page for the details . ( When I run on my machine , I see no locked files , so I wo n't guarantee that this works right on the Mac . is after all a generic unix program , and conceivably some features do n't work on OSX . ) You can not unlock a file without killing the process that holds the lock . But you can remove it with from the command line .
There is no built in concept of a menu in the dialogs-alerts within the AppleScript language . The closest you could do would be to name some dummy files ( in a temporary folder ) with the appropriate action and have the user choose the file labeled with the action you wanted to perform . A horrendous " solution " to a problem that needs a cocoa menu - whether you make it in Xcode or someone else does - Xcode/IB is the tool that creates a menu . MacRuby is a nice way to script an app that needs a more full featured UI than AppleScript . You do n't need Xcode/IB to ruby up an app from pure script . You could create a NIB using Interface Builder and script it all using AppleScript , but the nib defines the menu itself - not AppleScript ( even if AppleScript can populate or delete the menu items at run time ) .
You might take a look at VirtualBox which includes a GNU GPL version as well . It offers limited/experimental capabilities to run virtualized OS X VMs , but I think Apple generally forbids virtualizing OS X via their licensing/usage terms .
Check <URL> answer which points you to <URL> so you can toy with extensions and default apps .
<URL> I use and recommend DropDMG since it has many <URL> that make it useful for sharing software such as scripting the building of a DMG file directly from my CI server when I promote a build using the included <URL> . Above : Many options for <URL> , including <URL> and showing a <URL> when opening the DMG .
TextEdit > Preferences > Open and Save Check " RTF-files as RTF-code instead of formated text " and reopen the file .
In Applescript editor File - > Save As and choose File Format as Application . Open Bundle Contents drawer and see the applet.icns file , copy your icon to that . See " Saving a script as an application " in Applescript Editor help .
end question
start question
How to remove/delete a partition in single-user mode ?
Boot to Recovery HD or internet recovery since the Disk Management Framework is n't loaded in single user mode : If you run into more problems - and and their repair variants might help to get at the underlying error condition on your volume .
There are two options for files that came from a Windows drive : Right click on the file and select " Get Info " ( or mark all files and press + + ) to get the file information . There in the " General " - tab you can find and opt-out the " Locked " - option . Trash and delete them . Open / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app and type , then . If that fails , try and enter your password . Mac has other steps if you ca n't unlock the file - see <URL> for details on immutable flags and if the directory permissions wo n't let you modify a file . The two above steps handle the vast majority of locked files on the mac .
Is there a Downloads item in the Store area of the column on the left side of iTunes ? If so then you can click on it , click on the stalled download , and delete it . Edited to add There are a couple of places you might check after quitting iTunes . The first is Make sure it 's empty , and if not , remove what 's in there ( set it aside so you can put it back if it confuses iTunes later ) . The other place is : and look for the file ( or or whatever the game is called ) . Delete this file -- it 's the actual now-outdated game that iTunes is trying to update . Otherwise iTunes has the need to download it stored in its database and does n't care about files . I take it that agreeing to the download does n't help ?
The command will continue the startup process where it left off , leaving you in the normal graphical environment . But note that you will not be logged in as root , it 'll take you to the normal login screen . If you want to log in as root in GUI mode , you 'll need to set a root password ( which you can do in single-user mode with the command ) .
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
The answer was indeed to reset the NVRAM by holding cmd-alt-p-r during boot . Cheers :)
The only way I know how is to modify the System 's " User Template " . Here 's the steps I used to test on Lion . Use a current account to specify the desktop wallpaper you want . ( If you use " Solid Colors " there 's a button in the lower right to pick a custom color . Copy the current account 's com.apple.desktop.plist file to the user template :
If you want to create an AppleScript application to put in the Dock you can use the following code in OS X Yosemite ( and latter , I believe ) . In Script Editor , save it as Toggle Grayscale changing the File Format : to : Application You can give the App a different icon via copy and paste into the icon of the App 's Get Info sheet and then drag and drop the App bundle onto the Dock . You 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully . If you 'd like to use a bash script using the code provided by IconDaemon , the following code will toggle between using color and grayscale based on how it 's currently set . <URL>
Reply from Rovio , maker of the game : This feature has been done in cooperation with Twitter Inc. . Thus , players of Angry Birds Star Wars who have also Twitter accounts got the chance to post the info of their favorite characters on Twitter . Unfortunately we do not have any tool to disconnect Twitter from our game at the moment . However , you can use the ' manage account ' option in Twitter app and remove your account on Twitter before your children start playing the game , or disable the internet connection on your device . To log out of your Twitter account , launch the Twitter app and go to " Manage accounts " ( it 's the button next to the settings button on your Twitter profile page ) . Then remove your default account . When you wish to tweet again , just log in to the app and you 're good to go ! We are still working on developing this feature for future updates , so we apologize for any inconvenience this might cause . Hope you enjoy the game ! Best regards , Kalle Rovio Support Team
The answer was to remove the stored value in KeyChain ( there were multiple for the user ; had to find the one specific to the IP of my NAS ) .
Indeed a severe annoyance . I spent a lot of time on the phone to Apple and no solution was achieved , only " wait " . I ended up doing a simultaneous reinstallation of OS X 10.10.3 and my iOS 8 devices and this has apparently made them go away . I have since upgraded to OS X 10.11 and iOS 9 and they disappeared for several months . However , they have just come back this AM for no apparent reason on startup .
The best practice in storing app credentials is the Keychain . If you really need to recover the password check out this guide <URL> In iTunes , go to the " Summary " section , scroll to Backups , and enable the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option . After recovery , feel free to wipe the new iPhone . In case the app did not store in Keychain , you can use this technique to migrate app data individually <URL> Before we start , we should note this works for any iOS device . So if you want to back up and transfer data for iPads , iPhones , or between the two , this works . To manually backup and transfer data , we 're going to use the free Mac and Windows program iExplorer . You do n't need to jailbreak your iPhone to use iExplorer and it 's easy to pull data from your iPhone to transfer it to your new device . Here 's how to do it . Download the app you want to transfer data to on your new iPad . Plug your iPhone into your computer . Start up iExplorer and wait for your device to show up in the file browser . Click the arrow next to your device name . Click the arrow next to Apps . Find the app you want to transfer data from and click the arrow . Inside the app 's main folder is a folder called Documents . That 's where your saved data and game saves are located . Copy it to your desktop . Disconnect your iPhone from your computer and plug in your iPad . In iExplorer , find the app you want to transfer data to on your iPad using the same steps from above . Locate the Documents folder and copy all the data you just copied to your desktop folder onto the iPad . That 's it , you 're done . Different apps use different save files and occasionally the above process will require you to copy several files over . Other times you only have one file . This process works for most apps , but not all of them . Let 's take a look at a few of the instances where data does n't transfer over properly . Do n't forget to look at the caveats because sometimes this technique does not work .
I asked myself the same question and searched the file system for Nix-related files . That 's what I found : Not sure if I missed some files or directories . Also , I did not remove it myself , so be careful ( and backup your data ! ) when removing stuff with sudo .
The following article may help your problem . :) <URL> : By default , Mac OS X will simply give you a shell when you perform a Single User Mode startup . However , you can force OS X to ask for a password in order to gain shell access . To do so , vi the / etc/ttys and change secure to insecure . Once you have done so , create a password in / etc/master . passwd for root .
You can do this by : In the Finder , press ⌘ ⇧ G to Go to Folder . Type " " Find the service you no longer want Drag it to the Trash
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
Run this Terminal command ( as an administrator ) , replacing " usersaccountname " with the user 's actual account name : When it prompts you , enter your password ( it wo n't echo ) . That user should now be able to administer printers .
If there are n't many photos , the easiest way to do it is simply delete the photos on the phone . Unfortunately , this means selecting each photo individually as there is no ' select all ' option . To avoid individually selecting photos on the iPhone , you 'll want to use the ' delete ' option when prompted at the end of importing . Because iPhoto only deletes the photos that were imported at that time , you wo n't be able to do this with your ' normal ' iPhoto library . To get around this , simply create another ( throw away ) iPhoto library to import the photos . Select ' delete ' when prompted at the end of the import to delete the photos from the iPhone . Then you can delete this throw away library on your Mac . To create a new iPhoto library , hold down the Option ⌥ key when launching iPhoto . This will display a window asking which library you would like to open or create a new library .
In add a plist entry to the file such that the key is and the value is . Here is an example : assuming the file does n't exist , use a text editor to save the following code : The full file name and path of the above should be .
I would recommend using a tool such as Paragon . That way you do n't have to go through the backup , delete , create process . <URL> Check out his article as well ... <URL>
end question
start question
How do I do enterprise iPad recovery ?
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
You will need the recovery key to decrypt the volume if you lose your password or , in the unlikely event that the encryption key associated with the password becomes corrupt . If you elected not to allow Apple to store the recovery key , keep a copy ( or several ) in a safe place other than your computer . Recovery Keys can also be used by System Administrators to mount volumes for maintenance or recovery . ( The Admin does n't need access to an account password ) . It is possible to <URL> . Apple 's <URL> white paper provides more information about the inner-workings .
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
The hard way : Wipe the backup drive . Set up Time Machine again to backup to this drive . Wait for the backup to complete - and find a Mavericks recovery partition on it .
On my iPhone , I can find my MAC address by going into Settings , then General , then About . The wifi MAC address is listed under " Wi-Fi Address " . It 's likely that the MAC address for the iPad is in the same location .
Put your finger on the app and hold there . The app will start wobbling and have a cross in a circle at the top left . Then drag it to where you want . If you hit the cross it will delete the app .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
Ok , it turns out that if you use AirDrop to send the Playground book to yourself , iOS offers to open it in the Swift Playgrounds app .
Tap and hold , you will get a popover until you let go with the full details . Same works with music in the ipod app .
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
I 've always involved the carrier , but I do n't know if you have to involve VZW in the switch . If you have a shared data plan , then you will certainly want to get them involved to ensure you do n't make a stand alone plan when the old SIM hits the new device . I 've had no issues with exchanging a device and not had to pay the fee for enrolling the new device since it simply replaced the old one . If you are on a month to month plan and do n't mind re-paying the activation charge , you could simply set up the new device and let the old device 's plan expire . Much depends on if you use the device to set up the account or want to have verizon enter the details into their system as the different types of accounts have different manners of adding the new device to the plan .
If you 're located outside the US , iTunes Match is unavailable for the time being , due to content licensing deals . When iTunes Match was first announced I believe Apple stated they would be working on bringing it to more countries , but these negotiations always take some time . Hard to give a definite timeframe unless Apple announces something .
I either use the iTunes to iBooks method that Kyle Cronin suggested or use Dropbox if I 'm not near my computer or I ca n't be bothered plugging my iPad in . Dropbox has a send to iBooks command .
I 've looked around for this several times but today I just found its hiding spot -- the 0 key ! Just hold 0 until the alternate characters are shown . In the case of 0 , the only alternate character is ' ° ' .
There are two steps to stopping GitHub Conduit : telling GitHub.app to not re-install the job with launchd and telling launchd to not run it anymore . Disable Conduit installation : Remove launchd job :
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
I found this application that claims to do what you asked for . <URL>
You can recreate the Lion Recovery Partition by following the instructions available at this Apple support document : <URL> Note , you are not supposed to be able to see the recovery partition in normal use , so can you clarify how you have identified it is missing ? What happend when you boot with the CMD-R keys held down ?
Here is the procedure I recommend , for those who are comfortable with the command-line and with Homebrew : Install Homebrew . Run the following on the command line ( in Terminal ) : Edit your shell startup files to ensure that comes first in your . If you use vim as or , add ` export VISUAL = ' mvim - f ' to your environment ( <URL> ) . Check that you installed everything correctly by running Now , you can run the graphical MacVim on a file by running from the command-line . Or , you can run the text-based editor by running . Also , if other programs ( e.g. , git ) fork off a separate editor , they 'll run the graphical MacVim . See also <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
How can I transfer pictures from a USB flash drive with the Camera Connection Kit ?
This can be done by imitating the folder structure of a camera 's memory card . First , find a flash drive that 's compatible with the Camera Connection Kit ( i.e. does n't draw more than 100 mA ) . Create a directory in the root of the USB drive named . Inside create a directory that has exactly 8 characters . Put your picture/video files inside this directory , ensuring that they have an 8.3 pattern filename ( e.g. ) . You 'll end up with a directory structure that looks like this : USB drive root - \ DCIM - \ FAKECAM1 - \ pict0001.jpg - \ pict0002.jpg ...
Have you tried reformatting the unit to FAT using disk utility and then trying to rename ? FAT is the default filesystem for most USB sticks . I had this problem , reformatted it with disk util and it started working .
Yes . It does extremely well with geo-tagging photos without an internet connection . The phone simply saves the lat/longitude in the photo file . What one needs a data connection for is viewing the images on a map - one must download the map to display the pins .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
I would run a terminal command like and also run Activity Monitor to see if other processes are taking precedence to the copy and also inspect the volume of IO operations as well as the aggregate read/write bandwidth . You could have a bottleneck on the drive that is sending the data , the CPU that is doing the copy or the drive that is receiving the data in addition to the raw bandwidth of the external drive 's connection . Also , check in system profiler under the USB tree to inspect that the device is actually negotiated a USB 2.0 connection . Spinning HDD typically have a few hundred iops limit due to seek time even if there is perfect alignment of the data on the spindle so that the next block to be read is always directly under the read head when the drive schedules the next read . Other drive access , file fragmentation and other effects can often slow down a write to 50 iops or less which would clearly limit the transfer speed to 10 Mbps or less given typical block sizes for HFS + filesystems . In short , it might be a slow transfer due to the Mac or the drive sending the data and not a full or fragmented drive on the receiving end .
Since the release of Mac OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) , there is no installer media . The OS is <URL> , and reinstalled from a <URL> that is created on the hard drive . Eventually , Apple will allow you to <URL> that contains the OS . For now , you can <URL> ( or burn a DVD ) . It is expected that your computer did n't come with a USB drive for the OS , and the other models no longer come with DVDs .
First , I put both the new and old drive into a PC of mine , and loaded up an Ubuntu LiveCD . At this point , my old drive is showing up as / dev/sde and new drive is / dev/sdf ( WARNING : be sure to update the below commands with your device assignments or you can easily ERASE all your data ) . does n't work on the drive because it is a GPT partition table ( ? ) , and so I use instead . I forgot to mention in my question , the drives are of different sizes ( 500gb was old , 128gb is new ) , so I could n't just clone the entire drive . Instead , I recreated the partitions with and copied the MBR over . I most likely went about creating the MBR ( master boot record ) on the new drive completely wrong , but this way worked for me : ( the reason was the first 39 sectors were not part of a partition ) Next , I opened with which there was a problem : the MBR I copied over brought the old drive 's partition table &amp; its sector information ( i.e. new drive thought it was 500gb ) . So I used the " repair " option in as it recommended , deleted partitions # 2 &amp; # 3 , and saved the table . At this point , if I went back into , the disk showed a MBR , and no longer had errors . Next , I created the other two partitions , being extra careful to setup the sector size exactly as the old disk had ( for the # 1 EFI partition and the # 3 Recovery HD partition that is ) . For # 2 , I just did the math , and created the disk accordingly ) . Finally , I used to copy partition # 1 ( " EFI System Partition " ) and # 3 ( " Recovery HD " ) over from the old drive : When I put the new drive in my MBP , I held Command + R to get into the Mac OS X Utilities , at which point I erased my main partition ( at first , the disk was n't listed when I went to install Lion -- probably since I just created the partition and did n't format it ) . I formatted it to the recommended file system ( Journaled -- I forget how they phrased it ) . OS X Lion is currently installing , and seems to be okay . I 'll post back if I get any oddness . Note : mentioned in its help section that it is probably best to use a Mac disk utility if the GPT drive is being use on a mac , so take my solution with a grain of salt . ( I think fdisk says the same warning about NTFS and FAT , but I 've never had a problem with using fdisk/linux to create/format/etc on that end ) .
As of writing there is no software that natively supports working with FileVault 2 encrypted drives within Windows . There are ways to access the content of a FileVault 2 encrypted volume on other platforms including Windows ( for example <URL> ) , assuming you have the passkey and sufficient patience , but none that allow an encrypted volume to be used as a regular drive on Windows . At the moment , to the best of my knowledge , there is n't even any software that allows Windows to natively understand drives that use unencrypted CoreStorage volumes .
Bootcamp is a tool for installing Windows on the same drive with your OS X . If you want to have Windows on a USB , then boot from your Windows installation cd and install Windows on the USB . Then whenever you want to boot into Windows , plug your USB , hit alt/option and select Windows as your boot disc . It may be better though , if you find a ready/made Windows USB Edition . Either way , it will work :) Edit : After your first boot into Windows , do not forget to insert the Mac OS X Installation disc , in order to install the Windows/Bootcamp drivers !
The reason the adapters from apple have such a high price is because the product have a chip inside that will make sure the product keeps working . Cheaper product often do n't have such a chip . It is possible that those products work , but they can stop working at a random time . There are products from other companies that are also supported by apple because they pay a licence to develop such products . Every product that has the " made for iPod , iPad and iPhone " logo on it 's cover are supported by apple .
You could use <URL> to try to clone the raw volume ( there are some notes on running it under OS X on <URL> ) . It basically tries to read over &amp; over , getting as much as possible from the disk . This is n't ideal for your situation , since it 1 ) needs enough free disk space ( either a volume or a disk image ) to hold the entire drive , including free space ( i.e. if it was a 200GB drive with 10GB of files , you need 200GB to hold the clone ) ; and 2 ) it does n't tell you which files it could n't read ( you can look at the log and see what blocks it has n't been able to read , but figuring out what files those blocks are part of is not trivial ) . The good news about is that , thanks to its log file , if it missed something you need ( and you have n't modified the target volume at all -- mounting readonly is recommended ) , you can just run it again and it 'll pick up where it left off , and keep hammering on the difficult blocks until they give up their data .
This is currently not possible ( iOS 8 , OS X 10.10.3 ) . A similar question has been asked on the Apple Communities forum , and the consensus there was that it 's not possible : <URL> It 's possible that Apple will add this functionality in a later version of their software/OS .
The short answer is no . The reasons are numerous , but the first is that anything compiled to run on a device can not be run in the simulator because the processor architecture is different . The simulator is simulating a device , not emulating a device . Apps run in the simulator are intel x86 binaries , while apps that run on a device are compiled for some version of the ARM processor .
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
There are some apps that may help you with dark night photos ( though I have no experience with these apps ) . Here you are : <URL> : This app captures 15x more light to capture the best photos in low light situations . It also provides the best tools to help take the perfect shot day or night . <URL> : A full featured camera app with digital flash , 5x digital zoom , geotagging , preview before saving , quick and burst modes , and plenty more tools for night photography . <URL> : Very suitable for night photography , you can take 30 clear photos in 2 seconds in the case of low light . The app only fires the shutter when it detects the iPhone is steady to ensure sharpness .
This totally will not work . iTunes explicitly says gift certificate balances can not be used to purchase other gift certificates . I will call apple tomorrow to find another work around .
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
Using the built-in tool " Automator " , you can define a workflow to batch rename files . To do that , you will have to : Open Automator find it using Spotlight or in / Applications Create a new Workflow Type get into the search field Scroll to the bottom of the list of items and drag Get Specified Item from the Files &amp; Folders actions list on the left panel and drop it into the right panel Click the Add button and find your files Add the Sort Finder Items action followed by Rename Finder Items It the " Rename Finder Items " panel , select " Make Sequential " and " Add number to " Picture Hit the play button and you should be done Have a look <URL> or <URL> for an example tutorials on your specific renaming task at hand . An excellent overview of what Automator does and how powerful ( and simple ) it can be as a personal assistant - see the web page <URL>
Yes . You can use Time Machine with any directly attached hard drive . It is much faster , although if you have a laptop , it is somewhat less convenient to remember to plug the drive in than to use wireless . The folks from Apple were probably recommending a Time Capsule , which is a wireless router with a built-in drive for backups . It 's definitely an easy way to do it , but not required .
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
end question
start question
How to update XCode with a different userid ?
Delete the app from / Applications and then re-download it from your preferred Apple ID . Launchpad deletion is a bit cleaner , but does the same thing , preserving user files created by Xcode , but deleting the application itself . Unless you stored project files in / Applications , you wo n't affect project files or user settings since they get stored by default in / Users
Solved myself , here are the steps : - turn up is this file as backup download latest php vim file from <URL> untar the tarball copy the php.vim to / usr/share/vim / vim73/syntax/php . vim
To get a free C/C + + compiler you have to download Xcode . It includes two C compilers ; clang ( the compiler Apple currently supports ) and an old version of gcc . ( Note current versions of Xcode > = 5 I think only have clang ) Make sure you install the command line tools if you want to use the compilers from outside Xcode . ( These command line tools also seem to be available from Apple 's <URL> if you register but I would get them via Xcode unless you have a very good reason and understand the difference ) . All other compilers I know of use one of these two compilers and their binary tools to set themselves up . ( e.g. package management systems like macports , fink and homebrew need these command line tools to run parts of their infrastructure as well as to compiler their ports - however these package managers include ports of other c compilers e.g. newer versions of gcc . ) IDEs like Eclipse use these command line compilers to do the building of programs . There are some commercial compilers like <URL> but I do not know if these require Xcode or are C compilers .
As a workaround , you can download it directly from <URL> if you have a ( free or paid ) account . Update : At one time the included link above would take one directly to Downloads for Apple Developers after signing in , however as time goes by things change . So once logged into your Developer account add downloads to the address in the address bar so it shows as <URL> and then press enter . You should then be at the Downloads for Apple Developers section as shown in the cropped clip below . <URL>
The hard way : Wipe the backup drive . Set up Time Machine again to backup to this drive . Wait for the backup to complete - and find a Mavericks recovery partition on it .
Yes , you can , as long as you install the command line tools . You can then install the command line tools with For more information ( from the iOS Dev Library , but applicable in this case ) , see <URL>
After going to the Wallpaper section from within Settings.app and choosing an image ; On the iPad , there are ' Set Lock Screen ' , ' Set Home Screen ' , and ' Set Both ' buttons on the top of the screen while previewing the image . On the iPhone , a menu pops up asking whether you 'd like it on the Lock Screen or Home Screen , or Both , after tapping ' Set ' . <URL>
The same thing happens to me in 10.8 . If you hold option before releasing command in the application switcher , the Finder window ( and not the window of the desktop ) gets focus . Holding option makes the application switcher " reopen " the application , so that if for example the application has no default windows ( like a file browser window in Finder ) , a default window is reopened . You could also consider using other methods than command-tab to focus Finder , like <URL> or use Alfred .
You ca n't upgrade a beta device to the final GM release . You need to restore the device with final public iOS 5 release .
You need to install XCode 4.1 from the app store , which will replace XCode 4.0 with 4.1 . When updating XCode to 4.1 you will get a message to quit iTunes to continue the installation . The installation is actually waiting for iTunesHelper process to be terminated . You can terminate the iTunesHelper process using activity monitor . On my Mac the upgrade to XCode 4.1 failed . So I needed to uninstall XCode 4.0 first .
The Yosemite Installer package contains all the divers for all supported models . You are good to go for multiple uses on multiple systems .
Pressing the shortcuts for changing desktops while dragging a window should still work , but the shortcuts have to be enabled in System Preferences . <URL> supports for example assigning ⌃ ⇧ → to moving a window to the next desktop .
Double clicking your source files in the Navigator pane should make them appear in new tabs .
We found a " solution " ( more like a workaround ) which worked for us . Thought I 'd post it , in case someone else is in the same situation . Go to iTunes and change the address of your Apple account and the credit card to the country you want to order the pictures to ( I think you can also do this online from Apple 's website ) Restart iPhoto ; you should now be able to ship prints to another country When you 're done , switch back to the country where you 're living It 's rather inconvenient , but it works .
( Disclaimer : I have n't tried this personally . ) <URL> If I 'm understanding this page of the rEFIt documentation correctly , you should be able to take a 128x128 . icns image , name it " boot.icns " , and plop it in / System/Library/CoreServices on the partition whose icon you wish to change . ( rEFIt automatically searches for . icns images named the same way as the EFI loader file . On OSX , that file is / System/Library/CoreServices / boot.efi )
Whenever we install newer version of xcode , it ask " Do you want to replace the last version or to keep both " , than we need to choose the Both Version option . It will keep both .
I followed the guide from <URL> . By holding the option key when adding the files just stay where they are ( external HD ) and can be used in the iTunes library as well . This seems to be the only solution , as with the symlinks/aliases files can not be added to the library .
This is for iTunes 11.4 , but I think it 's the same in 11.3 and other versions around here , for anyone looking . I had this issue too , because there is n't enough space on my iDevices to update in place . Open iTunes , make sure you 're in " Library " and not the Store . At the top left there 's a drop down menu , it defaults to " Music " . Use it to select " Apps " . Then in the top center area below the status box that shows sync progress and the like is " Updates " . Click that , then " Update All Apps " in the bottom right of the window . Presto , utilizing your computer 's network connection and hard drive for better app updating .
Quit iTunes . Move your current backups to your external drive : Symlink your backup folder :
⌘ Cmd + ` works for me with the same versions of Chrome and OS X , so it might be something specific to your installation . You could try temporarily resetting Chrome 's preferences or disabling extensions . Or change the shortcut from System Preferences or test if it works on a different account .
end question
start question
Where are the good docs ?
I believe that you 're not asking in the wrong place , you 're really not asking a question . What you define like " The Good Docs " is completely subjective . The guide you linked clearly says : Important : This document is intended for use by security professionals in sensitive environments . Implementing the techniques and settings found in this document impacts system functionality and may not be appropriate for every user or environment . If you 're using this guide , you should be an experienced Mac OS X user , be familiar with the Mac OS X user interface , and have experience using the Terminal application 's command-line interface . You should also be familiar with basic networking concepts . Some instructions in this guide are complex , and use could cause serious effects on the computer and its security . These instructions should only be used by experienced Mac OS X users , and should be followed by thorough testing . So clearly these " good " documents are not that good for everybody . In any case , Spotlight does n't index / System because that could be a security problem on its own ( it would need permissions to do that , a set of permissions that you do n't want to give to a userland daemon running all the time , with access to a UI ) . Why would a regular user want to keep an index of / System remains a mystery to me , it only has things that are for the System and not for the user to find and manipulate . You can , however , use the terminal to touch that if that 's what you want , but no user should ever attempt to land in / System , it can only break so many things ... Where did you get the idea that / System is the most important place to keep an eye on files ? Spotlight is a tool to keep an eye on files ? The place to keep an eye on files is in your very own / Users/YourFolder , because that 's all the access you should have ( to write that is ) . Spotlight is an indexing/searching tool , not a tool to monitor files that may seem suspicious in reserved system places . All in all , if you still want those docs , I 'm sure that most of them will be available in the developer 's area of Apple 's website . ( developer.apple.com ) . You can create a free account and start from there . On the other hand , if you are a " security professional " then you are using the wrong tools for your job . Spotlight is ok as it is , if anything , you might want to restrict it . I 'm sure that if you make spotlight run as root it will eventually index that , but of all the possible ideas that come to my mind , that is probably one of the worst security ideas ever conceived . There 's a reason why root user is disabled by default , there 's a reason for sudo and there 's a reason for normal accounts . Use them wisely , use them in peace .
Apple has published <URL> . Unless you are a registered developer , you should contact Apple and they can assist with proper logos and artwork .
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
The notes created in OS X can be found in Google Inbox under unbundled label " Notes " . If you create a folder with [ name ] in OS X Notes app , the notes will be synced to Google Inbox unbundled label " Notes/name " .
If any I think ProCam might do this by default . There 's no specific settings for where to do the rotation , but if I do n't remember wrong it actually rotates the image . I 'm not sure if the app is free or costs anything since I got it thru appoftheday for free . Have a try . If you want I can check it out further so you do n't need to purchase the app ? Edit : Sorry to dissapoint you . Neither of the apps : ProCam , Awesomemize or Awesome Camera does this . I tested all of them by taking a photo upside down and mailing it to myself . The image arriving on my computer was also upside down . If youre into code you should have a look at whats going wrong and how to fix it : <URL>
This is the problem Apple is grappling with right now . I 'm hoping that they 'll have some answer for us this year that helps us deal with the number of competing apps in the app store . In the meantime , I have a few strategies for finding an app that meets my needs : Use the app store search . If you need your ebook reader to support epub , bookmarks , notes , and dropbox , simply type , " epub bookmarks notes dropbox " in the search field of the app store . I like to sort first by rating and check out the highest rated apps , then by popularity and check out the most downloaded apps . Note that sorting by rating and popularity are only available on the iPad . I read the reviews , both at the high rate end and low rate end to get an idea of the types of features people are excited about , and the types of problems people are experiencing . I look at the most recent update notes , and see how long ago it was last updated to get an idea of whether the developer is taking an active role in maintaining the app and is responsive to complaints , or if it 's an old app that works , but probably does n't have new features . At that point the only thing to do is to try out the ones that look most promising . Many apps offer a trial or ad supported version , so the trial can be free in many cases . For others , you 'll have to pay a little to try them out , and if they do n't fit your needs you 've lost a little money and time , but remember that you 're picking an app that should fit your needs for a long time - when you find it it will be worth the effort and money you 've spent on other apps looking for the perfect one . Use internet reviews/forums Do a google search for " best ebook reader ipad " or similar , and you 'll often get dozens of " top ten " style lists from people who have spent some time not just reviewing a few apps , but comparing and contrasting them . You have to do a bit of wading , and you are going to have a hard time finding less popular subjects , " best lawn care app " is n't going to give you such collections because few people will have taken the time to check them out , even though many exist onthe app store . Ask in appropriate forums This site , Ask Different , does permit apple and iOS specific product recommendations , for instance , and there are many other forums that are fine with such questions . You can check out the tag <URL> to get examples of the style of questions allowed here . The tag has this note which might also give you tips on asking for a recommendation : Recommendations can easily be subjective and local to one person or time . Please be specific about function and broad about timeframe so that your question , once answered objectively , is of use to the community .
I believe that airdrop transfers directly into your downloads folder . Should anything happen to interrupt the transfer , you will likely end up with a file called " transferred_file.txt . download " , the file is renamed to remove the . download upon completion . If you have any . download files sitting there and not changing in size , they are failed downloads and can potentially be restarted ( if they originated from Safari ) , or removed . You can test this by transferring a new large file , and watching the file get created , increase in size , then get renamed .
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
Apparently , Push Notifications Permission are reset if the devices are restored or the app is uninstalled for a day . Extracted from <URL> The first time a push-enabled app registers for push notifications , iOS asks the user if they wish to receive notifications for that app . Once the user has responded to this alert it is not presented again unless the device is restored or the app has been uninstalled for at least a day . Therefore , these preferences must be stored where iOS System Settings are stored .
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
The actual data is stored in a hidden directory called at the root of the volume . There is a special virtual filesystem type called which translates the raw data in these hidden directories into a virtual Time Machine drive which is automatically mounted on
They appear to be part of the workflow , which means they would be saved wherever the workflow file is saved . This varies , depending on what kind of workflow you are creating . Services are saved in ~ / Library/Services Folder Actions are saved in ~ / Library/Workflow/Applications / Folder Actions Applications and Workflows are saved wherever the user saves them .
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
Have a look at this hint : <URL> You can ( temporarily ) show the location of the current desktop picture by executing the following command from the Terminal : You can revert this behavior by executing the following :
Its on : Notice though this is the system library , not the user library , so its right on the root of the drive and not inside your user folder . Its hidden by default . Go to terminal and type to open it . Hope it helps ! Edit : On Finder , you can hit CMDShiftG and paste the path to go to the folder . ( thanks Sjoerd )
Deleting the files from an individual app and doing a clean install of Mountain Lion are two different things . As per mckeed 's answer , you can use AppZapper to delete an individual app , other alternatives being <URL> or <URL> , although the latter could be a bit overkill for what you want . Fresh install for ML is a different story though , I did a fresh install the other day and I 'm super glad I did - I 'm one of those people who just collects apps and files they do n't need and everything gets a bit clogged after a while . Simple instructions to do so are : Start off by backing up whatever you need ( I know this ones a bit obvious ) , save anything you want to keep to an external harddrive . You 'll need to get your hands on another external harddrive or usb stick at least 8gb , and it has to be empty as we 're going to use this to make a mountain lion boot disk . If it 's not empty , do n't worry we 'll erase it in step 7 . Download mountain lion from the app store , but do n't install it otherwise the app disappears and you 'll have to re download it . Secondary click ( right click , whatever you want to call it ) the install icon and choose " show package contents " from the menu . When the contents of the install file are displayed you 'll see a folder called " SharedSupport " , open this up and you 'll find a file called " installESD.dmg " . Copy this file somewhere so you know where to find it . Open " utilities " in your applications folder and open " Disk Utility " Plug in your blank USB drive from step 2 . You 'll now see it in the left pane of the disk utility window , click on it to select it . Click on the " Erase " tab in the main disk utility pane . Change the " format " dropdown to MAC OS Extended ( Journaled ) and then name your disk something that makes sense to you like " Mountain Lion Install " . Click erase . Click on the " Restore " tab in the main disk utility pane . In the " source " section , you 'll need to navigate to and select the " InstallESD.dmg " file we copied earlier . In the destination tab you 'll need to select your now clean drive . Click Restore . The drive and your mac will now make whirry and buzzy noises for a while . When it 's done cooking it will tell you . You now have a Mountain Lion boot disk . Restart your computer with the new Mountain Lion drive plugged in still and immediately hold down the option key when it starts back up . If you 've done this right , instead of booting OSX you 'll see a picture of your drive to select . Click on the disk you created earlier to boot from it . Now the scary part . You do n't want to install just yet , somewhere on the screen there is an option for utilities , I think from memory it 's in the top bar . Click utilities and select " disk utility " which looks alot like ( actually exactly like ) the disk utility app you used to make the disk earlier . This time , select your macs harddrive in the left pane and click the erase tab , make sure the format is set to MAC OS Extended again and click erase . You 've now erased your harddrive . Close out of the utilities window and continue the installation as normal installing Mountain Lion onto your newly clean Harddrive ! Hope all this helps , best of luck !
This is fine ! Go ahead ! Symlinks or hard links are followed by the system , so you 're free to create them within any of those folders , or indeed the folder itself .
The best commercial packages of themes for the iWork apps , in my experience , are those from <URL> ( under Design ) They produce themes for both Pages and Keynote , as well as animation and art packs . For free templates , <URL> has a ton of Pages templates , and some decent Numbers templates as well for basic use . <URL> also produces commercial themes , in addition to having some freebies , and an excellent blog and collection of links for other sources of high quality stuff .
end question
start question
What are the keyboard layouts of a MacBook Pro 15 " ?
You can find this out yourself . Open System Preferences - > Language and Text - > Input Sources . Check the boxes for the keyboards you want . Then , check the Show Input menu in menu bar box . Click the new menu bar item , select the keyboard layout you want to see , go back to the menu bar item , and click Show Keyboard Viewer . This will work from any computer , and you can see any layout . The first picture was snapped while a full sized keyboard was connected , the second shows the option key held down - and is what you will see if you have a smaller bluetooth or built in keyboard connected .
The video out on MacBook Pro uses a Displayport / Thunderbolt port . To hook up to a VGA or DVI cable , you need an adapter . Alternatively you could buy a cable which has Displayport on one end and DVI or VGA on the other . The adapters do n't come as standard so you 'll need to buy one in an Apple store , online or use a third-party cable .
For me , Hazel works best when I 'm using it in conjunction with other tools . On its own , in can seem a little lackluster or underwhelming , but when combined with other applications or used as the ' glue ' between them it really shines . One of my uses is to automatically organize PDFs of schedules from work . I 've got a Dropbox account , and make use of <URL> to allow me to email attachments straight into my Dropbox . The issue is that they 're not always consistently named , and I do n't feel like manually renaming them . I have Hazel watch the destination folder , and when a PDF arrives , whether its named 7.30 , 7/30 , 07-30 , etc , it automatically renames it , moves it to folder with other already acted on files , and archives away old versions . The result is that I have a nice archive of schedules , all consistently named/sorted . I use Hazel to help out with video encoding/tagging tasks . After encoding a file , Hazel picks up on it in the destination directory , and automatically renames it based on a consistent naming scheme . Once it does this , it applies a label to the file , and moves it to a new folder where files awaiting metadata live . Any file here gets passed through an automator script that adds some basic metadata ( show type , year , etc ) before passing it into <URL> for the final touches before throwing it into iTunes . It also handles more mundane tasks . Some trackers list . torrent files with a . txt extension . Hazel will monitor the downloads folder , and if a file with a . txt extension shows up , it checks the file 's " Where from " attribute , and if it matches a trackers website , it changes the extension to . torrent and moves the file into my Torrents directory so that Transmission can add it . There are times when I do n't need to see my Bootcamp volumes mounted on the desktop . Hazel can check for this volume , and it if sees it mounted , it 'll run a shell script to unmount it .
You can change this setting later at any time . It does n't affect the AppStore . The region setting will affect the availability of certain features which are n't available in all regions yet such as Apple Pay and Apple News . Apple News is only available if you set your region to Australia , UK or US . Apple Pay is additionally available in Canada .
Apple iMac and MacBook Pro models did not have UEFI firmware and the ability to boot Windows installers from USB flash drives until the 2012 model year . Your firmware does not have the ability to boot from a USB flash drive Windows installer . You should install Windows using your DVD drive . If you no longer have a DVD drive , you may still be able to install using the Windows 8 iso file . This have been done successfully using Windows 7 on a 2010 15 " macbook pro ( MBP6 ,1 ) . If you wish , I could update the procedure for Windows 8 . ( Or are you installing 8.1 ? ) . Anyway , go <URL> for more information . To install directly using the GPT partitioning table is only recommended if your computer has a UEFI . Your model does not . Most people who succeeded usually have a problems with one or more drives not working properly . There is no advantage in trying . Installing using the MBR partitioning table will work without any problems . You do n't have to use BootCamp . Most who don , ' t , want something different than the default ; such as an extra NTFS or ExFat partition . The procedure depends on what you have in mind . Updated Procedure for Installing Windows 8.1 Using VirtualBox The original steps are posted <URL> . Steps 1-14 . No change Steps 15-17 . Substitute Windows 8.1 for Windows 7 . Step 18 . No change Step 19 . Images slightly different , but not worth updating . Step 20 . The rest the virtual machine installation will be repeated again after booting Windows on the physical machine . For most questions , you can use the default answers . Use the provided answers below when the following windows first appear . When asked a second time , you can provide your own answers . ( Hint : For a better view , click on the image or open in a new window . ) When the following window appears , enter a name for the computer . You will enter this same name later . I used the name Shark . Choose any name you like . <URL> When the window below appears , choose Customize . <URL> VirtualBox creates a virtual Public network for your virtual machine . Therefore I would click on " No " in the window shown below . <URL> To be safe , I would not let any updates download or install until after the Boot Camp Support Software ( the drivers ) is installed . Therefore , when the window below appears , I would choose " Do n't set up Windows Update ( not recommended ) " . <URL> When the window below appears , choose " Create a new account " . <URL> Select " Sign in without a Microsoft account " , when the window below appears . <URL> Enter a temporary user name , password and password hint , in the window shown below . You can delete or disable this account later . <URL> Step 21 . Replace From the Start Menu , select " Computer " to open a window containing the hard disk drives and devices with removable storage . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " File Explorer " to open a window containing the devices and drives . The first image will be slightly different . Replace Select " Start Menu → All Programs → Accessories " , then right click on " Command Prompt " and select " Run as administrator " , as shown in the image below . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " Command Prompt ( Admin ) " . Disregard the second image . The Desktop shown in the third image will be different . Step 22 . Replace Windows Explorer with File Explorer . Step 23 . Same instructions . Replace image with the following . This step takes a long time to complete . <URL> Step 24-26 . No changes .
I would n't purchase this machine unless it 's still covered by AppleCare . Inspect it closely for nicks and dents , indicating a drop . I would check the Console logs for any indication of ongoing OS level problems . Unfortunately testing hardware can take a while , but is worthwhile before buying . Run AHT ( see <URL> ) and do the quick test . To do it you 'll probably need the original disks that came with the machine . The only other thing I can think of would be to verify that modules such as bluetooth , WiFi , Ethernet etc , are showing up properly ( and information is being populated in ) system profiler . To get there , hold option while going to the apple menu - it 's the first option . Listen for loud fans , can indicate overheating or bad sensors . Aside from that ... it 's always risky . Check Apple 's stock of refurb units . They come to you refurbished by Apple , with a 1-year warranty , and often do n't cost that much more than a CL unit , but with much less risk .
I 've used smcFanControl when I had a 1st Gen Macbook Pro 15 '' . It 's not harmful in the sense that the fan is designed to be on , but of course , like any other mechanical device , the more you use it , the faster it wears out . If your Macbook Pro is getting too hot , try one of those utilities to see if it helps . In any case , getting a cooling pad is not a bad idea . Depending upon the type of work and conditions that you have , a Fanless may be enough . I believe the " best " fanless was the <URL> . And for cooling pads with a Fan , you 'll have to see and trust the power of <URL> . These generally use a USB port to drive a couple of Fans . Among the best features you can look for are the provision of an extra USB ( so you do n't lose your port ) , portability if you move and sound level of the fans , whether they can be turned on/off , etc. .
If you are talking about a Thunderbolt equipped 15-inch MacBook Pro then yes according to this : <URL> Interestingly you can also drive two from a 13-inch MacBook Pro , it will disable the built in display .
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
Looking at your data - your storage has to be performing horribly . SSD HD : 245/249 .77 GB Used To fix this : Make a bootable backup and test it ( or make sure your Time Machine or off-site backup is solid and you know how to restore / how long that will take ) Make a new user account Delete your main user account and let the Users &amp; Groups preference pane delete all your user files . Boot the mac into recovery and run disk utility to check the directory structure and most importantly - allow the unused blocks to be trimmed . ( alternatively you could boot into single user mode and run fsck on the unmounted volume . That trims unused blocks equally well ) Once that is done , start up the Mac and log in to your new test account . Collect timing statistics on what you wish to benchmark . Make sure you have repeatable numbers ( maybe run 5 tests - see if you have to discard high/low values - if so , better to make 10 measurements ) . Now that you have a solid benchmark of how the software performs with enough space on the drive to arrange the storage efficiently and for rapid read/write performance , you can contemplate moving back some or all of your user files from your backup . I like to keep 50 GB or 10 % of free space on my SSD - whichever is the larger amount for maximum performance . Any less than 6 GB free + size of RAM is a danger zone and means I am sacrificing serious speed to have the drive that full . Get a <URL> , or <URL> or spinning HDD to hold your large files and you will probably have to do nothing else to speed up your Mac .
The Dell monitor came with a Mini DP connector , which was all that was needed to carry the image . It also came with a USB connector , which has then allowed me to use the Dell soundbar . The font smoothing on the Dell is not as good as on an official Apple monitor , which is somewhat annoying as the hardware is the same , it 's a software problem . When dragging a window from the laptop screen to the Dell screen , you see OSX change the algorithm it 's using to something more rubbish .
Suggested problem tracing / and repair ) steps ( after each test the performances ) . Some applications will force use the Nvidia card ( without automatic switching ) . Yes the ZOOM feature adds stress to the GPU . Vacuum clean the inside of your Mac to improve cooling . Google and Install gfxCardStatus , Leave on Dynamic Switching . From there it will Monitor and Alert you to what apps switch you to the Nvidia Graphic Card . Also open the Activity monitor - Energy tab , where you can see when the Nvida card kicks in , and does it switch on/off irregularly . Monitor your Console log for irregular ( fast ) GPU switching . Do some <URL> : GpuTest is a cross-platform ( Windows , Linux and Max OS X ) GPU stress test and OpenGL benchmark . GpuTest comes with several GPU tests including some popular ones from Windows ' world ( FurMark or TessMark ) . worst case remove the Nvidia card , and go without it .
I have an external hard disk connected to an AirPort Extreme . Time Machine wirelessly backs up my MacBook Pro to it . In this regard , it works the same as TimeCapsule but as the hard disk is external ( and you get to choose it ) , it does n't suffer from the same reliability problems . I 've found the AirPort Extreme to be a very good Wireless Access Point , too ( and not just for Apple devices ) .
From what I 've seen so far from others with the same laptop is that it 's normal . One possible fix/improvement to this is the latest Apple SMC update which contains some fixes for this : <URL> It also reduces the amount of noise your fans start making with even a little bit of load so it is quite useful .
It depends on how much you care about your warranty . If you want to keep your warranty valid , Apple says you can upgrade your hard drive and your RAM -- and that 's all . To learn how to do it , here are Apple 's user manuals and page references for the current ( mid-2010 ) MacBook Pros : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No need to worry - at present , the only MacBook with a physically different keyboard size ( in the US ) than the rest is the 11 inch Air . The small Air has a full sized " main keyboard " but the top row of function keys are slightly smaller than the top row of function keys on the rest of the lineup . I would presume that the same holds for international key layouts when they have different enter keys or additional physical keys , but do n't know that fact for sure . The cover you mentioned will fit the new retina MacBooks - both 13 " and 15 " - as long as the hardware is a US model .
The simplest way to confirm a hardware problem is to boot your machine using a different startup disk and testing the issue in question . To do so you would require an external HD or USB drive , with an OS installed on it , preferably Mac OS . Simply connect such external media to your machine via USB or Firewire and boot up the computer while holding down the ' Option ' key . Creating bootable USB : <URL> Changing your Startup Disk : <URL>
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
end question
start question
How can I keep my Macbook Pro cool and avoid fan noise ?
Fan speeds are related to the temperature of your laptop . If you 're just interested in monitoring the temps , <URL> ( $ 16 ) has an excellent temperature monitor that sits in your menu bar and can track any of the dozen temperature sensors built into your MBP . There are various free apps which purport to allow you to control your Apple laptop fan speeds . <URL> <URL> <URL> -- seems to be out of date , wo n't run on Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) EDIT : After looking at those in depth , it appears that they let you increase fan speeds , but otherwise do n't interfere with Apple 's built-in fan controls . You might try running the fans at high speeds just before recording to cool your machine , then shut them off when you start recording . Then , if the fans come on during recording , you 've done the best you could , and you 'll just have to record in shorter segments if fan noise is an issue . I 've found that the best solution to keeping my computer cool and the fans off , even when really tasking the processor , is to put it on a little stand to allow plenty of airflow underneath . Personally , I swear by <URL> -- I 've been using them with my Apple " pro " laptops since 2004 -- but there are many alternatives . Finally , I 'm not sure what you 're recording , but you could try using a directional USB microphone to eliminate extraneous noise from your recording environment . There are many excellent options on Amazon for under $ 100 ( be sure it is Mac-compatible before purchasing ) .
I 've been monitoring my fan speeds for as long as I 've had my device . At idle , the lowest it gets is hovering around 2000rpm . The left fan is usually closer to 2100rpm , actually . The maximum speed appears to be 6000rpm , which occurs during gaming and heavy CPU loads . <URL> lets you monitor and control your fan speeds . The minimum setting is 2000rpm and the max is 6000rpm , so I think we can safely conclude that these are the standard maximum and minimum values .
You can use your thumb to click on the lower part of the track and the index finger to move . As long as you keep the trackpad pressed with the thumb you can release the index finger .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
I have read it somewhere before ( <URL> ) that on some heavy loads ( especially GPU loads ) , 2011 MacBook Pro charger may not supply enough charge . There are no official confirmations , though , as far as I know . Please check , however , that the " 0:09 " minutes are referred to the remaining time and not the " remaining time until fully charged " . I suppose it is the latter . I may also point out ( but only as a last thought ) that if you keep your Mac always under charge , the battery may stop charging at certain times to preserve lifetime .
every few weeks ( 3 or 4 ) , disconnect the iPad and use it until you have about 50-75 % battery left , then charge/connect it again and your battery will not suffer at all .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
<URL> Because of how Find My Mac works , you must deselect the box next to Find My Mac in the OS X System Preferences > iCloud pane to remove your device from your iCloud Find My iPhone , iPad , iPod Touch , or Mac device list . One of the ways this persistence is implemented is by writing a Find My Mac token to <URL> , the persistent memory in Intel Macs . You can see this token by running the following command in a terminal : On my Mac , the result includes my name , Apple ID , and the name I gave the computer , along with some encoded information that probably includes a key of some sort .
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
I Just found <URL> with a google . Not used it but it says it can " sync your home and work computers -- even if they 're not connected -- by syncing them both with an external hard drive serving as a " shuttle " for your data . "
When duplicating a photo within the Photos app , you are now given the option of duplicating as Still Photo . On your Mac , right-click the Live Photo , then Duplicate 1 Photo . On iOS , open the Share Sheet from your Live Photo , then tap Duplicate . The option to Duplicate as Still Photo will appear . Select that , then delete the original to drop the video portion from a Live Photo . You can actually select multiple Live Photos and process them as a batch this way .
Unfortunately <URL> Best bet is external software OR Final Cut Pro 7 has numerous plugins that reduce noise and grain , but they are all very expensive .
The MacBook Pro has the same number of pixels as the Cinema Display but a smaller area to show them on . That makes the pixels on the MacBook Pro smaller . Since windows and text are a certain number of pixels in size , screens with smaller pixels will make them appear smaller . The solution is to choose a lower resolution on the screen with smaller pixels ( the MBP in your case ) . Choosing a lower resolution means that each pixel of data will be drawn across multiple physical pixels , making everything bigger . I ca n't tell you exactly what resolution to use on your MBP to get things close to the same size , but it should n't be hard to find out with a little testing . Open System Preferences - > Displays and go to the Display tab of the window on your MBP . Check the Scaled radio button and pick the second resolution on the list that appears . If that is n't big enough , move on to the next ( lower ) resolution , etc. . Stop when you get to one that makes things similar in size across both displays . Note that , as a result of this , your MBP 's display may not look as nice . Things wo n't look as crisp and some resolutions will have to stretch things sideways .
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
For some possible solutions check out : Solution 1 <URL> If the warranty on your MacBook Pro is no longer valid , like mine , do n't worry . Simply take a small piece of paper , such as a Post-It , and fold it in half . Stick it over the spot on the ribbon cable . Then reinstall the removable battery . The battery should exert enough pressure on the piece of paper to keep the ribbon cable working . If your MacBook Pro is still under warranty , take it to an Apple service center . While Apple has not officially acknowledged that this is a widespread problem , it 's afflicted the machines of many owners , so surely it 's not unknown to them . Demonstrate the steps described above to whomever is helping you as letting him or her see the problem as it happens eliminates the guesswork and may help expedite the time needed for repairs . Solution 2 <URL> THE FIX ? I rolled up a sticky note and placed it on top of the cable . When the battery is locked in place , it puts pressure on the cable , and makes the keyboard and trackpad functional . Solution 3 ( Apple ) Apple support forum dedicated solely to this issue : <URL> THE SOLUTION : This is a HARDWARE problem ! After playing around with removing the battery and noticing that this often returned functionality to the keyboard I surmised that this had some sort of physical aspect . Sure enough , there is a section of copper colored tape/wiring exposed in the batter slot that is slightly bowed where it 's smallest . When I depressed this with my finger tip on this portion to basically flatten it out flush against the housing ; I found that all functionality was restored !
Yes . You just need the right video and audio adapters . Apple sells two adapters to connect your MacBook 's Mini DisplayPort to <URL> or <URL> . Neither of those will include audio , so you 'll also need to get audio cables . Your TV likely includes either optical or composite ( RCA ) jacks for one or more of your DVI or VGA connections . For HDMI , you 'll need a third-party adapter like <URL> . Note that this one does not carry audio either . The most recent 13 " MBP does put audio out over that port , but I 'm not aware of any adapters that can use the audio yet . That same site also sells third-party VGA and DVI adapters that are much cheaper than Apple 's . I ca n't vouch for the quality of the third-party adapters , but I buy most of my cables there , and I 've always had good results .
I 'm fairly certain the green light is hard-wired to the camera , there 's no way to activate the camera without activating the light , precisely for privacy reasons . If you 're really concerned about it , you can always just use a piece of electrical tape to cover the camera ( or fold a piece of cardboard over the top of the lid for a non-sticky solution ) . Frankly I would n't worry too much about the risk of malware . That particular piece of malware ( <URL> ) was contained fairly quickly by Apple , it 's very unlikely that you could be infected by it now , unless you maintain an unpatched system . There have been a few OS X security issues lately ( such as <URL> ) , and they get a lot of press , but the actual amount of harmful software out there for a Mac is extremely low . My advice is to keep your system up to date and avoid downloading files from questionable sources . But other than that , do n't worry too much , unless you have a highly sensitive job ( in which case there should be other people whose job it is to worry about it ) .
end question
start question
iPhone 4 free case - replacing phone voids current order ?
The <URL> app allowed me to order another case directly after getting my replacement phone . I was determined to do the right thing and wait to see if my original shipment was fulfilled before ordering another one . It seems that my original order has shipped and I can no longer order another case through the app .
There 's an option to downrate the sample rate within iTunes when you sync to iDevices , however this has it 's issues and advantages : songs are reencoded on the fly during sync the original sync will take a long time ( in order of hours ) only songs needed to be synced will be re-encoded so choose your music carefully This option is only available when your iDevice is connected . Select your device from the iTunes left hand side bar , then choose the Summary section from the main window . The option is labelled ( in the English locale ) as " Convert higher bit rate songs to ... " as in the image below . In current versions of iTunes , the Capacity bar at the bottom will resize to show your savings if you choose to sync .
Yes , but only with the iPad in sleep mode . The iPad requires at least 500mA from a USB port : Apple peripheral devices may request more than 500 mA ( Milliamps ) at 5 V ( Volts ) from a port to function or to allow for faster charging . Such Apple peripheral devices include : iPad iPhone Alluminum Wired Keyboard * About wired keyboard we get the information : * When connected to a computer that supports a connection of 1100 mA at 5 V , the first port on the keyboard to have a device or peripheral connected to it that requests standard 500mA power will receive that power . At that point , 100 mA at 5 V is available through the remaining port on this keyboard . This keyboard does not support extra power out of its two ports simultaneously ; it requests extra power from the host computer to provide power out of either one of its two ports , then the second keyboard port receives the standard 500mA . Note : Apple computers and displays that were introduced before 2007 support only 500 mA at 5 V from their ports and do not offer additional power . [ <URL> ] As the wired keyboards can provide the minimum 500mA required by the iPad ( just like older Macs can ) , it should be possible for it to power the iPad . However , it can not provide an additional current which would allow for faster charging . But , the new iPad can only charge in sleep mode when connected to a low powered USB hub : The fastest way to charge your iPad is with the included 10W USB Power Adapter . iPad will also charge , although more slowly , when attached to a computer with a high-power USB port ( many recent Mac computers ) or with an iPhone Power Adapter . When attached to a computer via a standard USB port ( most PCs or older Mac computers ) iPad will charge , but only when it 's in sleep mode . Make sure your computer is on while charging iPad via USB . If iPad is connected to a computer that 's turned off or is in sleep or standby mode , the iPad battery will continue to drain . [ <URL> ]
Go to settings > phone First line is My Number
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
I can add as many phone numbers as I want on the iPhone . When you 're in edit mode in the contact , there 's always a blank line under current phone numbers where you can start typing a new one . If you click on the label of the number , you can select a label ( work , home ) and even a custom label if you scroll to the bottom of the label selection list .
Can I have both a case-insensitive system volume and a case-sensitive volume within an encrypted CoreStorage volume ? Core Storage : can not create a volume within a volume can create a logical volume ( LV ) within a logical volume group ( LVG ) . ... to keep the main system volume case-insensitive ... That 's reasonable . ... to have my home dir be case-sensitive ... Maybe desirable , but please beware : some software for OS X may not work as expected in that environment . I thought first of Adobe , found examples from 2012 and 2013 : <URL> <URL> An example -- OS X 10.9.5 , Mavericks I used Disk Utility to create two partitions from a USB flash drive ( at at the time ) , then erased each of the unencrypted file systems -- and opted to encrypt . For both encryptions I chose the same passphrase that is used to encrypt the FileVault 2 OS X startup volume . The relevant part of output from : Limitations I rebooted the Mac to check whether either logical volume family ( LVF ) was automatically unlocked before loginwindow is launched by launchd . As expected , no automation of that sort . Issues With Mavericks I can find no way to create more than one LV within an LVF . The following articles state that it 's possible to do so : <URL> ( 2011-08-05 ) <URL> ( 2011-08-14 ) <URL> ( 2013-02-25 ) In the Franke article it 's remarkable that the same UUID is used to both ( a ) shrink an existing LV ; and ( b ) create another LV in the same LVF . Unless I 'm missing something , this approach is impossible with Mavericks . For example : Assuming a bug in Core Storage in Mavericks We should review this answer -- maybe add another -- after Yosemite is released . ( I should not expect a fix in Mavericks . )
FYI , iPhone 4 does have heat sensors and if it gets dangerously hot it will show a black screen with a yellow warning sign and shut down . It 's perfectly reasonable to be concerned and take the measures you have to increase heat dissipation , but batteries warming on charging is quite normal . I would n't worry unless the iPhone displays an overheating warning consistently .
Typing in Terminal will open the current working directory in a Finder window .
Actually no , iOS and OSX version of iWorks are 2 different softwares although linked by iCloud ( AppStore &amp; Mac AppStore " are " independent ) . iWork for OSX is free for every Mac bought after October 1st 2013 . There are <URL> without any illegal download . Does Apple know that or do they do that on purpose ? That a good question that I do not know the answer .
Case-sensitive and - insensitive filesystems under OS X are a mess ( to say the least ) , primarily because some well-known and big software companies require their software to be installed on an case-insensitive filesystem . Otherwise these applications would n't really work because accessing would never work with a file named on disk . OTOH for TM backups this is not really important because you will never run an application directly from your TimeMachine drive . Using a case-sensitive filesystem in that case covers both possible options without negative impact .
All of the battery and power usage information ( including approximately how much power applications and certain system processes use over time ) is stored in and . This data is both used to aid in the calculation of battery percentage and to unmask power-hungry applications . Apple 's algorithm for battery percentage is based on a number of factors : the maximum capacity of the battery ( known based on the battery that the iOS device was manufactured with ) , the remaining capacity of the battery ( calculated based on <URL> ) , power usage over time ( stored in ) , and current power usage ( calculated based on <URL> ) . This data is all put together to extrapolate an estimated remaining capacity which iOS displays as the battery percentage . When the iOS device is in a different mode other than iOS ( such as <URL> or <URL> ) , it does not store or read any information from the database ; it uses the direct method of determining the capacity of its <URL> : simply the Voltage that the battery is currently outputting . Take a look at a <URL> , and you may wish to read <URL> .
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
You can use an Automator Workflow . Something like this : Sort Finder Items step will sort image names descending ( IMG_0003.jpg , IMG_002.jpg , IMG_001 . jpg ) . Make Sequential step will rename them sequentially ( IMG_0001.jpg , IMG_0002.jpg , ... ) . Copy Finder Items step is optional , just to be sure not to mess with original files .
No . This multitouch gesture ( as well as a few others ) are iPad only . The gestures existed for iPhones and iPods in the iOS 4.3 Beta , but were removed before the public release . iOS 5.0 re-introduced the gestures for iPad .
Decided to try restoring my iPhone . That seems to have fixed it .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
You can download the <URL> from <URL> page . It 's definitively not free of either license or copyright . The licensing terms stipulate only running it on Apple hardware and furthermore restricted on how to use it with virtual machines on top of Apple hardware . You need to also consider the <URL> if you download the free-of-cost Mavericks software from that store . Below is a relevant extract from the OS X Mavericks licence : 2 . Permitted License Uses and Restrictions . A. Preinstalled and Single-Copy Apple Software License . Subject to the terms and conditions of this License , unless you obtained the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or under a volume license , maintenance or other written agreement from Apple , you are granted a limited , non - exclusive license to install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple - branded computer at any one time . For example , these single-copy license terms apply to you if you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware . B. Mac App Store License . If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store , then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ( <URL> ) ( " Usage Rules " ) , you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running OS X Mountain Lion , OS X Lion or OS X Snow Leopard ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ; ( ii ) If you are a commercial enterprise or educational institution , to download , install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software for use either : ( a ) by a single individual on each of the Mac Computer ( s ) that you own or control , or ( b ) by multiple individuals on a single shared Mac Computer that you own or control . For example , a single employee may use the Apple Software on both the employee 's desktop Mac Computer and laptop Mac Computer , or multiple students may serially use the Apple Software on a single Mac Computer located at a resource center or library ; and ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software , for purposes of : ( a ) software development ; ( b ) testing during software development ; ( c ) using OS X Server ; or ( d ) personal , non-commercial use . The grant set forth in Section 2B ( iii ) above does not permit you to use the virtualized copies or instances of the Apple Software in connection with service bureau , time-sharing , terminal sharing or other similar types of services . Bold added for highlighting purposes ; the bolding is not present in the original licence .
I got the Incase Snap Case through the free program , and it does n't cover the bottom of the unit at all ( except for the sides ) so it should work for you , unless your dock connector is massive :
I think I psoted the question a little too ealry . Anywyas here is exactly what I was looking for : Settings >> General >> Accessibility >> Guided Acess >> Turn the guided access on and also enable the sleep/wake button . You could put in a password now or later ( when you turn it on using the triple trigger and start guided access it will prompt you for a passcode ) Enjoy !
end question
start question
Does OS X Have An Inbuilt " Self Cleaning " Feature ?
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
Found out the issue was indeed the RADIUS certificate , as Apple deprecated the SSLv3 cryptographic protocol and the RC4 symmetric cipher suite in iOS 10 and macOS Sierra . <URL>
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
If you 're thinking about using Xcode 4 and Lion as a " stable " coding environment , do n't do it now . Lion has a lot of bugs already " enjoyable " and quite possibly a lot more to be found in the following weeks . You 'll have to reinstall your OS/Xcode quite often when new releases become available . It 's nice to try things ( " new " AppKit stuff ) and investigate if certain things work in Lion or how will they react to new tech like " Versions " , Full screen , apps being resizable from any corner , etc. . All these new things will require new code and current devs will certainly want to add these capabilities . That 's what this is all about . Other OS X betas in the past were certainly stable ( especially after a couple of releases ) but I ca n't recall a " first " one being barely usable beyond experimentation . Launchbar is buggy as hell at the moment .
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
The <URL> indicates that Tiger ( 10.4 ) and Leopard ( 10.5 ) both include Ruby . I can verify from machines in my own home that Lion ( 10.7 ) , Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) , and Mavericks ( 10.9 ) all come with Ruby . I ca n't personally verify that Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) contained Ruby , but it would be shocking if it was present in the previous and subsequent versions but not Snow Leopard . If your target audience is people who bought their computers or upgraded their operating system on or after April 29 , 2005 , you should be safe using Ruby in your installer .
There are two approaches that could lead to less power consumption : a display that is enabled to have a dedicated greyscale mode ; less pixels to be in charge of software that automatically renders " less " if you tell it not to render any colors Whilst the first is definitely not applicable as the iPhone features an LCD screen , the latter is something I once inspected . I made an iPhone draw a couple of dozen lines per second and then print how many it could render in 30 seconds . Having the accessibility feature enabled I hoped for a higher score in my little " benchmark " . However , it resulted in no improvement at all . Actually the iPhone was slower having grayscale activated . It might be misleading but a lower benchmark , here , indicates more CPU cycles , hence more power consumption . So unless the iPhone actually caps CPU power on grayscale mode ( which I doubt ) your iPhone consumes even more power in grayscale more . This is probably due to the fact that it first renders the view in color , then caches it and puts the gray-filter on it . Side fact : on iOS9 you will have a " low power mode " available for your iPhone . I already use iOS9 on my main device on a daily basis and the power saving functionality is awesome ! My iPhone survived a 6-day music festival whilst taking pictures , checking mail in the mornings and sometimes calling people . So do n't worry about it too much , in a few weeks your iPhone will last surprisingly long .
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
There 's a first time for everything but , but basically : no . Unless you have found the mother of all security bugs , so humiliating that it would overshadow Apple 's entire Mountain Lion release , the bug to end all bugs and live on in infamy , it just is not going to happen . Not to mention , fixing and testing bugs generally takes time . The fastest Apple bug fix ever , to my knowledge , took <URL> but that 's very unusual for a company its size . In general it takes weeks , in many cases months , even years .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
Two avenues can solve this problem : Find and disable whatever firewall is intercepting the DHCP return traffic since your Mac needs to see what IP address the route is assigning it . When it does n't get a response , eventually the DHCP request times out and your OS self-assignes an IP in 169 land . Inspect the network traffic or the router logs to see if and why the Mac DHCP broadcast packet is being ignored . The router could be out of IP addresses , not allowing that MAC address or just an odd network condition is preventing the router from seeing the OS X request for a DHCP address .
iCloud documents are cached locally in ( represents your home folder ) . They 're synchronized via HTTPS ( even when the application is closed ) and the files ( some of them , at least ) , are stored on <URL> . When opening , editing and saving a TextEdit document from iCloud , these requests are made : request to request to request to Amazon S3 request to request to request to
Apple has just announced OSX Mountain Lion which incorporates iMessage into the OS in the form of the Messages app . This will work in the same was as iMessage for iOS . <URL> You can currently <URL>
You can install coreutils with . will be linked as . Read the caveats when you install coreutils .
end question
start question
How to run remote applications on OS X like X11 does ?
Short answer is no . Cocoa is not designed as a remote procedure call ( RPC ) - esque protocol , while X is . You can not tunnel the interfaces of Cocoa applications like you know it from X11 natively , only using protocols like VNC that transfer the actual bitmap rather than the rendering instructions . On the other hand , you are able to use remotely running X applications via SSH .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
In System Preferences , click Universal Access then Keyboard : You 'll find the options for sticky keys in there .
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
Fusion Drive is an OS X specific way of caching data . If you use Bootcamp on a Fusion Drive you will get Windows on the hard drive only . Some information from this <URL>
Go to the network preferences panel in System Preference Select airport , then ' Advanced ... ' Press the plus button It will work even when the network is n't near .
Facetime does not include this functionality directly . One of the possibilities you have is using <URL> feature .
<URL> can change key combinations like control + c to command + c everywhere : You can add your own settings in <URL> . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> . You can change text editing shortcuts by creating a DefaultKeyBinding.dict . See <URL> and <URL> . Related questions : <URL> <URL>
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
<URL> , so you could <URL> and then install Nautilus using that : You should then be able to run it using the terminal command . You may see the following during installation : Running the commands manually should be enough to run directly after installation ( without rebooting ) .
Nice HDD setup ! Load Terminal.App in the utilities folder , and use the following command : sudo pmset - a hibernatefile / Volumes/OtherVolume/sleepimage Obviously change / OtherVolume/sleepimage to / YourOtherVolumesName/sleepimage From <URL> . ( EDIT : that webpage shows even the author did not succeed with this method . Likely reason is the other drive is not ready to read the image when trying to wake up . Apple says the sleepimage must be on the root drive . I myself am getting a crash when trying this . )
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
If you want to remove Java 6 ... From <URL> , do the following : Remove the " system " JVM installed and maintained by Software Update Remove any Java Developer Previews Do NOT remove any content in the JavaVM.framework . Those items are required by Java 7 , 8 , 9 + as well as Java SE 6 . No modern version of OS X has a Java JDK inside there anyway .
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
It does run , but Snow Leopard does not install Rosetta by default . Rosetta is needed to run PowerPC applications on Intel Macs . You can install Rosetta from the Snow Leopard disk . I believe you will be prompted to do this when you try to run Photoshop .
I have been thinking the same since I learned about Nvelo Dataplex and recently I stumbled upon <URL> It looks like they are working on versions for Mac , Linux and Windows .
Here is a quick summary of running OS X on non apple hardware with ( and also without ) support from virtualization such as VMware . Possible - yes Supported , licensed , intended - no Legal - you 'll need a lawyer to help with that in your specific location . So , as long as the hardware was Mac you would be probably licensed for Lion and later OS X to run visually no matter what intermediary OS you used as part of the virtualization chain . The how is n't going to be easy since you 'll have to defeat either VMWare 's checks to prevent any Windows person from running OS X or OS X 's checks to ensure it 's running on Mac hardware .
Indexing of an AFP-network drive is n't a problem : To enable spotlight indexing on a network drive open and enter : To disable the indexing of a connected network drive : To check the status of indexing on a connected network drive : <URL> In the comments there , a Synology NAS has been mentioned explicitly : MacHouis • a year ago Thanks a lot , it works very fine :) :) :) . I had to mount the volume ( a Synology Ethernet server ) in afp to start the Spotlight Indexing ... thanks thanks thanks ... This also works for older Mac OS Xs ( in the example below it 's Lion ) . Make sure that you 've switched to ' Shared ' in the search window :
end question
start question
How to mute the camera shutter sound effect ?
Some countries ( notably Japan and South Korea ) have laws requiring camera phones to make audible shutter sounds . I ca n't find a definitive reference for this ( at least not one in English ) , but there are many second-hand references if you Google .
The only way to stop burst mode during timer photos is to turn the flash . When the flash is the camera will only take 1 picture . My recommendation is to provide feedback to Apple <URL> and let them know how you feel about this limitation .
I 've had an iPhone 4 since the day it came out . After the first year or so the oleophobic property has completely gone : it 's now no different to my old iPhone 3G screen in terms of finger smears . I 've never cleaned it with any sort of chemical agent but I 've also never kept it in a case that covers the screen , and it spends a lot of time in my jeans pocket . So the answer is yes , under some conditions it certainly does wear off over time . Your mileage may vary , of course : kept in a case , or carried in a bag or purse where the screen does n't get rubbed , it should last much longer .
In terms of hardware , according to <URL> , Mac Minis ( and most other Macs ) since early 2006 come with a 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack and models since mid 2010 also come with an HDMI port , both of which should support multichannel audio if your source material provides it . You can find the specs for your own Mac by clicking the " This Mac " item in the left-hand pane . Specs for the current ( Mid 2011 ) <URL> say : HDMI port supports multichannel audio output and for most of the other models , as an alternative to the 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack , this <URL> says that you can also use a mini Display port to HDMI adapter to receive multichannel audio and video ( though I 'm not sure what software support for this would be like ) : These computers supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort : MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) and later MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) and later MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) and later iMac ( Late 2009 ) and later Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) To connect your television or other HDMI devices to your Mac , use select third-party Mini DisplayPort to HDMI adapters that conform to the VESA v1 .1 a DisplayPort Interoperability Guidelines Depending on the software player , it should be just a question of connecting the HDMI/optical output to your recevier and getting multichannel output . I use <URL> and get 5.1 surround sound output ( AC3 or DTS ) over HDMI , and I believe the latest " Eden " release supports 7.1 . It also does blu-ray ( rips only , I assume ) , DVD and has an excellent plug-in system which <URL> . Alternatively , <URL> is an another alternative and will do much the same thing . Once you get your media set up , both will work pretty much out-of-the-box . As for a TV tuner , <URL> looks very good .
The microphone and speakers on Apple laptops are located in the lower case , not in the display . What you are noticing are the permanent magnets installed in the display to keep the lid closed without a mechanical latch .
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
The mute-setting does not transfer from the phone to the watch .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
StartupSound works for me . It 's true that it is sometimes not totally OK , but if you set different sounds volume , or check-unchech the mute radio button , finally it does the job .
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
All current iPods support the same : Frequency response : 20Hz to 20,000 Hz Audio formats supported : AAC ( 8 to 320 Kbps ) , Protected AAC ( from iTunes Store ) , HE-AAC , MP3 ( 8 to 320 Kbps ) , MP3 VBR , Audible ( formats 2 , 3 , 4 , Audible Enhanced Audio , AAX , and AAX + ) , Apple Lossless , AIFF , and WAV This is from the Apple <URL> . So , since they all support the same bitrates and formats , the quality does not change between models . Get whichever you want . The real sound quality difference will come from your speakers or headphones . Note : If you want the best sound , use the Apple Lossless format .
You can use <URL> which basically just sets the volume to 0 when you shutdown and then turns it back up after login .
With an Application such as <URL> navigate to where you 'll find a file called which contains the following : The DCIMLastFileNumber parameter is quite self explanatory . Set the number at which you want the counter to start at and restart the iPhone to apply the changes .
Yes , the application is called " Photo Booth , " and lives , I 'm pretty sure , in / Applications/Photo Booth.app After you 've taken a photo , you can drag an image to the desktop or to a folder in the Finder to save as a jpg image .
The volume up/down feedback audio file is called volume.aiff and is located in :
I could have sworn I 've managed to use a USB keyboard with my iPad , and it shipped to me with 4.2.1 installed . Maybe my keyboard uses less voltage ( it 's one of those semi-novelty foldable ones ) . Perhaps you could get around this limitation with a powered USB hub ? Update : I 've recently heard rumour of <URL> .
I 'm afraid there is n't an easy way to do so . As far as I know , there is no app which can do what you want ... So I 've come up with two alternative solutions . The most easy one is to connect your iPhone to your Mac , launch <URL> ( which comes by default on your Mac ) , select all the photos and delete them . Here is <URL> how to do so . You can do this on your iPhone as well , without a Mac , but you 'll have to do it manually . Which is n't a grateful job if you 've got over a 1,000 photos ... Open the camera app , hit the upper-right icon ( share ) , tap all the photos you want to delete ( they are marked with a red check-icon ) and then hit delete .
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
end question
start question
What can change so the app store fails on a network where purchases used to work fine ?
You should be able to filter your firewall logs down to requests originating from your computer/your phone 's local IP address , and look it it 's outgoing requests . I 'm pretty sure all that app download traffic takes place over bog standard HTTPS , 443/tcp . Ensure all apps have stopped running , open App Store , move over to the Updates category , wait for all traffic ( app image requests and the like ) to die down , then tap update . The next series of requests should fail , and you should have the reason relevant to your own configuration .
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
You can do it , but do it with caution . I 've run network home directories before , which is essentially what you 're describing , and iPhoto supports it fine . On your standard Desktop OS , simply create alias to the iPhoto library on your network share in your User home directory photos folder . You can also set iPhoto to use a new library in a new location by opening iPhoto with Option ( Alt ) held down , where it will then prompt you to locate the new library ( which would be on your network share ) . The biggest issue you 'll have to address is ensuring it 's not open and being edited by two iPhoto instances at the same time . I 'm not 100 % sure how it will behave , but you can bet not well . You could get situations where photos become orphaned , etc. .
In app purchases do fall under the same rule , however if your Apple ID is signed into , say a family computer , he could approve it himself on that device .
To get an app for free ( if you did n't get the choice to pick None as payment option ) you should open your installed ITunes program . Then from within the program go to ITunes Store and pick any free app and try to buy it ( Google Translate or some other one ) . It will tell you to login/register into ITunes . If you create account from there you will have a choice to pick None as payment option . This worked for me several times for my customers .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
I solved this using Mac Os X Lion install DVD . Boot your Mac from Mac Os X Lion install DVD by holding Option key at startup When a window appears go to menu and find Terminal and run it From inside terminal you can copy any files ( I used commands : df , ls , cd , mv ) This works for Macbook Pro late 2011 but will not work for 2012 and later models because Apple prevented them from being able to boot from install DVD or USB . Thus all recovery tools like DiskWarrior Boot DVD , Drive Genius and similar will not work on 2012 and later macs . The other option is to ask a friend with Mac to make a Recovery USB using <URL> and make a DMG file from it using Disk Utility and send you over internet . Then use the <URL> application under Windows and burn DMG on your USB stick . You will be able to boot from this USB stick into Recovery Mode and from there you can run Terminal to copy \ move files or do whatever you need . Apple should distribute some bootable ISO or DMG image which can be downloaded from their website and burned on disk or USB and used to recover Mac offline .
Yes , although there are <URL> that cover the same ground already on SE . You can DL app store apps ( including Lion ) on your girlfriend 's computer . Then she can log into her own apple account and buy other apps . The only thing you need to be aware of is that for updates , you can only update the apps you bought with that particular account . So if you want to update Lion ( not likely as it will come through software update ) or other apps , you will have to re-log into your account . I believe most apps have a 5 computer limit .
Most apps with in-app purchases have the ability to redownload those purchases if , for instance , you delete the app &amp; need to reinstall it , or if you are loading the app on another device with the same AppleID . Below , the Restore Purchase button in GarageBand which allows me to download loops I have purchased :
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
I think if all you 're doing is telling your friends about your app and encouraging them to post honest reviews in the App Store , that 's probably fine . If , however , you were trying to get your friends who 'd never even used the app to positively review it in the App Store , that would probably be considered a breach of that rule .
Yes - set up a DHCP reservation on your TimeCapsule using the Airport Utility of your choice . I prefer using a client ID so you can easily change things when you get a new server , but typing the MAC address in also works .
" Up to six people in your family can share purchases from iTunes , iBooks , and the App Store without sharing accounts . Pay for family purchases with the same credit card and approve kids ' spending right from a parent 's device . Easily share photos , a family calendar , and more to help keep everyone connected . " <URL> In-App purchases are not supported by Family Sharing . <URL> If a free app has been shared and a user makes in-app purchases , this is supported ; however , if the user leaves the group in which the app was originally shared , the user will need to purchase the app on their own and then restore their purchases .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
No , the compiled code must be submitted via a Mac . One " workaround " is to install OS X into a virtual machine on Windows , but that violates the OS X user agreement . So yes , you 'll need a Mac .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
Mac OS X 10.5 + stores user 's account pictures within the Directory Service with the exception of an account that has not modified their user picture from when first created . When first created an account contains a ' Picture ' attribute in their user record that is a path to the image in question . This can be read using the command ( ) . If a user has modified their user picture at any time the account picture ( aka cropped version if appropriate ) is stored in the ' JPEGPhoto ' attribute of their user record . Original files can be found at if you 're looking for an Apple provided picture , while your personal original files should be found at . If the files are ever removed from the folder it will not affect your user account 's image whatsoever . If you wish to extract a version of your account picture you can do so by running the following command : . The resolution can vary depending on the original size of the photo and what version of the operating system you 're using when it is saved . If you are running Mac OS X 10.4 , my memory is failing me as I do n't recall if the user picture was stored in NetInfo or not .
end question
start question
How do I know which nvidia graphics cards work with a Mac Pro ?
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
Yes this is normal . Both the 15 " and the 17 " MacBook Pro have two graphic cards and use the Intel HD graphics for normal function and switch to the ATI Radeon when a more graphically demanding application is being run . Also when you connect the external display the ATI card kicks in in order to drive both of your screens . This is why you get the blue screen flash when you connect and disconnect an external monitor ( the graphics source is being switched )
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
No , I have suffered some Game Center outages in the past , but could not find a source directly from Apple which stated so , not even the iCloud status page . The <URL> now lists the status for all Apple internet services , including Game Center .
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
Hold down the Command or Ctrl key and click on the icon or file name in the center of the title bar of text edit 's document window . Be sure to click on the title itself . The containing directory structure will be shown in reverse-hierarchical order .
The SuperDrive does only work with the MacBook Air , but the MacBook Air supports a lot of other drives . For example there is the <URL> ( $ 37,75 ) . Cheap , fairly fast and not very ugly :) Or the <URL> . ( $ 45,80 ) A bit more expensive , but it support way more formats and speeds :
Running OneNote on Mavericks here , and right now it does not support tablet input in the way you have described ( I wish it did ) . A possible compromise is to run Windows and OneNote in a virtual machine ( or BootCamp ) , but it really depends on your needs and what you 're willing to put up with .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
You will find an up to date list of carriers and frequencies on <URL> . For other countries see <URL> . You can use your iPhones as follows ( <URL> ) : iPhone Quad band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) iPhone 3G In addition to previous : Tri-band 3.6 Mbit/s UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) iPhone 3GS In addition to previous : 7.2 Mbit/s HSDPA iPhone 4 quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) . Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz not yet officially supported by Apple ) iPhone 4S quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz unannounced ) This means you can use your iPhones on any carrier on the 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz frequencies as a GSM phone , and access to data at the slow GPRS/EDGE speed . For higher speed access you will have to look for carriers who provide the right technologies at the right frequencies . This mean the iPhone will not work on networks operating in the 1700 MHz frequencies and it will not work on 1800MHz 3G ( UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ) networks as it only can use this band for GSM .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
The retina display of the new iPad has both ... a four times higher pixel density a better color saturation More vibrant colors will improve the looks of anything displayed on the screen . So this should make " non-retina compatible " games more fun as well . However , all of the iOS apps by Apple are in high-res and due to the huge difference in the used pixels , non-retina apps will appear to have worse graphics . The retina display is theoratically able to display four times the content . Apps that make use of only 1/4 of the pixel resolution are perceived less detailed .
Apparently , I had to plug the keyboard into the USB port closest to the middle ( Mac Mini Late 2012 ) , then it worked .
Thanks for all answers ! The problem was solved , it was turned out to be caused by a Safari plug-in ( notifier of Gmail ) . Method : inspiration ( sorry guys I just found it out by realizing I installed a weird plugin ... really hard to explain how the idea came to my mind ... ) .
<URL> is a free app that lives in your menu bar . When you click it , it tells you which graphics card you 're using . It also has a beta feature that lets you manually switch to one or the other . Hope it serves you well .
<URL> to manually create the Recovery HD partition , but it seems complicated for a novice user . If you do n't feel sure about your self into doing this , then I suggest you to re-install Lion .
end question
start question
How do I hide folders in OSX ?
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
With the Apple TV connected to your development machine via USB . Steps In XCode from the menu Window - > Devices Select the Apple TV on the left representing your device . On the device , configure the screen the way you want to capture it . Click the Take Screenshot button . It will save the screenshot to your desktop of your development Mac For reference : <URL>
Hold & #x 2318 ; and drag it out of the menu . If date and weekday are shown , they will also be removed . Alternatively , you can disable and customize the clock in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Date &amp; Time & #x 2192 ; Clock .
This is not done via any Firefox configuration option , but an account wide Java setting : Open the Java Preferences utility which you can find in Applications - > Utilities . There , under the Advanced tab , and " Java console " , choose " Show console " .
Internet Recovery If you <URL> , hold ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt + R on boot to begin . An image of OS X will be downloaded from the internet , and can be installed on the internal SSD normally . Once this is complete , you can restore your data from your external drive .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
You can use <URL> . From the website : Features Unified location bar with search bar Search directly using location bar Quickly switch engines using search engine keywords Define new search engines It works on Snow Leopard and Lion . NB : it requires you to install <URL> . See the <URL> on the website .
Updated at May 2015 , with current solutions . Free solutions <URL> - Successor to MacFUSE <URL> Last updated 2010 , pretty much abandoned in favour of the Paid version , Tuxera , unless you want to build from source . Last version linked from <URL> Paid solutions <URL> <URL> MacFuse is abandonware , and has n't been updated since 2009 .
Before Sierra , this was n't an option . In Sierra - use the Advanced finder options and check the option ' Keep folders on top when sorting by name ' <URL> Before 10.12 , Finder just did n't have a " group the folders " at the top/bottom there are legions of Mac users that put all sorts of characters in their folder names so that they sort above or below when sorted by name . There are all sorts of <URL> , but then everything is arranged by kind first , and secondarily alphabetically . If this is a deal breaker - check out the many apps that run in place of the Finder . Here is a query to get you started : <URL>
George Garside 's path is correct . Latest JDK released today from Oracle . I advise downloading directly from <URL> . Use the symlink to create your variable . Add the following to your or profile . Just downloaded the kit and added the above to my . As you can see , variable is now clearly defined : Returns :
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
You have a few choices . <URL> , site down , claims to do this . <URL> claims to zoom an app and hide the menu bar . Not sure if this will work , for example , with the Finder . <URL> does a so-so job . Hidden menu , but the shadow is there and the space is not usable According to <URL> you can edit the plist of the app and have the menu bar become hidden . Add the following to the Info.plist in the app bundle :
The option offered by techraf is one way to go , but I do think there is a built-in OS X option available that will meet your needs ( or most of them ) . In every OS X ' Open ' dialogue box or ' Save as ' dialogue box you have a drop-down menu which you can click on to select other locations . Clicking on this will also list your recent places and allows you to open from or save to these as needed . Depending on your setup , you may need to click on the arrow button appearing next to the field ( on the right ) to make the drop-down visible . As an aside ( and you 're probably aware of this - but for the benefit of others ) on a related note you can access recent applications and documents under Apple Menu > Recent Items . You can also increase/decrease the number of recent items listed here by accessing System Preferences > Appearance on older systems or System Preferences > General on newer ones . Hope this helps . [ EDIT ] Okay , here are some images showing an example of how to view recent places in Mac OS X Save As dialogue boxes and Open dialogue boxes . These examples are based on OS X El Capitan , but other versions also work in a similar fashion . <URL> <URL> Please note : Various applications may display these dialogue boxes differently , but all offer the ability to view recent places In my images , Desktop is shown in the Where drop-down menu . However , this may be different depending on your circumstances If you ca n't seem to see a list of recent places , make sure if there is an arrow next to the Save As field that it faces down ( see below ) <URL> Hope this helps !
Open Safari and go to Preferences , then click on the Advanced tab . There 's a checkbox at the bottom titled " Show Develop menu in menu bar " . Check that then close the Preferences window . You 'll notice that in your menu bar between Bookmarks and Window you have a menu called Develop . Near the bottom of that menu list is Disable Images -- click it . Now your browsing experience is image free !
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
You can easily install by typing the following : To be able to install it , you need <URL> installed and <URL> . To install type : To enable type :
In Lion and Snow Leopard , you can create a network from the AirPort menu and choose whatever SSID you please . The same dialog should be available from the network preference pane in System Preferences if you prefer that avenue .
Alternatively you could import them in the mail.app on your new mac using the " Mail " - > " Archive " - > " Import mailboxes " - > " Apple Mail " menu option and then choosing the ~ / Library/Mail folder on your old mac ( or a copy of that folder on an USB thumb drive , CD-R etc ) .
Print Job scheduling was removed in OS X 10.7 Lion . As a workaround , you can pause the printer , print what you want then continue the printer . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this on the following page : <URL>
I have no experience with this , but I found a <URL> .
end question
start question
Screen capture software that streams to Apple TV ?
Ability to stream content of your screen to Apple TV is coming in <URL> .
Ability to stream content of your screen to Apple TV is coming in <URL> .
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
Currently it ca n't . Photo Stream settings are detected via the iCloud preference pane and is global to your machine . Until it can support multiple iCloud accounts , iPhoto can only connect to one Photo Stream at a time . Since it 's only a temporary store of the last photos taken I am assuming Apple will most likely not make this possible . I normally move my photos from the Photo Stream to Flickr to achieve this since you can have multiple Flickr accounts . Look into <URL> with photo upload if you want to merge photos from multiple devices into one collective stream . From there you can use the Mac client and Folder Actions to automate importing , processing and other tasks as needed .
The free screen capture tools built into QuickTime and the OS will allow you to take full screen video capture as well as partial captures . You can then edit these down using preview and iMovie to crop and adjust them . This takes time , so there is room for some inexpensive apps that help you by pre-defining the capture area so you do n't have to edit down a larger file or worry about being pixel perfect each time you make another capture using the mouse/trackpad . I use <URL> for static images and used <URL> for video images until Mavericks came out . It does n't work now , so <URL> is my tool of choice if QuickTime does n't cut it . I 'm hoping Screeny gets updated since it 's lighter and simpler . Nothing will replace ScreenFlow for big projects due to it 's post production workflow tools , but you might be well served by a less expensive option or even prefer simplicity over complexity if that 's more important than a one time cost . Skitch is currently free , Screeny is $ 15 and ScreenFlow $ 99 - all are available on the Mac App Store .
This seems to work on my AppleTV 2 and MacBook Air . Last night I turned on the AppleTV to browse my main library on a Mac Mini and the MacBook Air library showed up as well , even though the lid was closed and the computer was asleep . I have not experimented enough to know if this works with the power adapter unplugged . This was a very pleasant , but apparently undocumented , feature to discover . Perhaps it arrived in the most recent AppleTV update .
Really , the only difference is that the UI ( User Interface ) will be different between the Apple TV and the PS4 . UI is the arrangement of any virtual objects that the user interacts with , so virtual buttons , menus , etc. will vary from platform to platform . Honestly , if you want to use it JUST for Netflix , what you have is probably fine , at least not worth spending an extra $ 69 over . However , Apple is rumoured to unveil a new Apple TV very soon , which could have new features like a touchscreen remote , 4K support , a dedicated App Store , and more . So at least wait until Wednesday to make your final decision . You can read all all the rumours about a new Apple TV <URL> . And watch the Keynote on Wednesday , September 9 at 12 PM CDT <URL> .
The only super major differences the 1st Gen Apple TV 's has from the new ones is the ability to store Movies , Music , Content , etc because they have a physical hard drive in them for doing those things . The other things is that they can connect to TV 's through Red , Blue , Green Component Cables . They also do not support Airplay with out a hack or a software fix . Also , the newest Apple TV , the 3rd Gen , allows for 1080p HD playback , where the older ones only support 720p HD playback . There are also a few other minor differences in size , power consumption , software options/OS and so on . The new Apple TV 's do not have hard drives or Component Cable outputs and support Airplay out of the box . Airplay is probably the biggest feature that makes people who do n't want to hack to jump ship to the newer box . It is pretty cool . The 1080 HD playback is nice , but depending on your TV , may or may not be noticeable/important . Some people like the older ones also because they can be hacked and used as linux computers ( <URL> ) with actual storage and since they can also store things on them , you can take it with you and have videos/music on it and not require internet for streaming your content . Though the biggest reason is most likely the hack-ability of them , they are tiny computers with a decent amount of power . And since they are n't sold any more and are still sought after , that would explain their above average price . The new Apple TV 's require internet of some kind or at least a local network for stream video and movies and data from a computer or the internet . They are also significantly smaller too , the older Apple TVs are much larger . You can see all the differences on their wiki page , it lays out the differences in features between the devices and even talks about most of the hacks that are available . Very informative . <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
LICEcap is free ( GPL ) , works on MacOSX , and capture animated GIF directly . <URL> It 's never too late ;-)
AirPlay sends MP3 , AAC and H. 264 compressed data directly to receivers , thus a very high compression in some cases and very good for the rest . Apple 'd developer documentation covers the basics as well as some tips for preparing content so that it streams/forwards well . <URL> The decoding of the streams is done by a chip ( and encoded as well - the same on iOS as on OS X ) so you can see which devices support AirPlay and deduce which GPU and CPU families have the hardware to do this both rapidly and in the case of iOS with low power usage . This iOS support matrix is very handy to see each iOS version and the CPU/RAM for various models even though it does n't call out AirPlay support specifically .
It is none of them , however it is compatible with VNC .
Pretty sure that there are hardware differences allowing support for 1080p , not present in prior gen Apple TVs . So if that is the case , then a software update ca n't add in that support . We will not know for sure until we can see the spec and a complete teardown of the new Apple TV . We might be in luck for a UI update , though . So according to ars techinca 's <URL> Apple TV First let 's start with the Apple TV . The device looks the same as the second-generation device and , in fact , the new interface that Apple touted during the event will also be coming to the second-generation version via software update . The only thing new about the third-gen Apple TV is 1080p capabilities plus a more direct link into iCloud for photo syncing . If all you want is the new and improved interface ( which I do like , as an Apple TV fan ) , you 'll be able to get it from Apple on your second-gen device without having to pay anything . And as for hardware changes that 's a yes to according to the same article as well . We asked whether the third-gen Apple TV had the same A5X processor as that in the new iPad ( as was previously rumored ) , but an Apple spokesperson told us that it has a " single-core version of the A5 " and it 's not the same as what 's in the iPad . The CPU is capable of handling 1080p HD video .
If you turn on the ATV 's " Conference Room Display " mode ( and your ATV is connected via Wi-Fi ) , ATV shows this text with the screensaver : AirPlay Wirelessly send what 's on your iOS device or computer to this display using AirPlay . To learn more , go to apple.com/airplay . 1 Choose Wi-Fi Network ( insert name of your network here ) 2 Choose this Apple TV ( insert name of your ATV here ) Based on this , it correctly explains that you can send content from iOS to ATV over Wi-Fi . It incorrectly implies that you can ONLY send content from a computer over wi-fi . This is n't true . My Mac is connected to my router via Ethernet , and the router connects to ATV over wi-fi . So , I do n't actually have to do step # 1 ( select the wi-fi network ) on my Mac , but I do need to do that on iOS . If your ATV was connected via Ethernet , I 'm sure you 'd get a similar message , although it might not explicitly state which wi-fi network to use on your iOS device , since the ATV itself would n't be connected via wi-fi . As long as your iOS 's wi-fi network was connected to the ATV 's Ethernet network " locally " , it will still work . In a complex network , like in large corporation/office environment , you might not be able to get from the iOS 's wi-fi to the ATV 's Ethernet thru AirPlay , which might not auto-detect AirPlay devices through the various switches/routers/etc . But , in most home networks , you should be all set !
Last night , I did a <URL> about the issue , telling them the above . They confirmed that those were the steps that they would have advised . They told me to phone their support line ( 0800 107 6285 , 08:00 -- 19:45 Monday -- Sunday in the UK ) , and ask for " multimedia " support . However , this morning , my purchased TV shows were suddenly showing up again , I guess about five days after they disappeared .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
The updated YouTube app requires Apple TV Software Update 7.0 which is only available for 3rd generation Apple TV . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Apple advises first trying : Hold down the Power button for 10 seconds . If that does n't help , do a Power Manager ( SMC ) reset . No problem . See this Apple support page for directions for specific Intel machines : <URL>
It 's not advertised all that well , but Apple still sells the non-Thunderbolt <URL> . As CajunLuke points out , there are other good 27 " displays out there , notably by Dell and HP , just be careful that you 're getting one that is n't low resolution ( 1920x1080 on a 27 " wo n't look great - the good ones are 2560x1440 ) , and has a native Displayport input - as you may be aware , the miniDisplayport to dual-link DVI adapters have some issues .
If your MBP is early 2011 or newer and there 's an Apple TV on the same wifi network as you , you should see an icon that looks like a TV in the menu bar . Click it and you 'll get a dropdown menu listing all the available Apple TVs ( in case there 's more than one ) . Click yours and you should be good to go ! If your MBP is older than early 2011 , you 'll need a third-party utility of some sort . If you 're willing to shell out $ 15 , I 've heard great things about <URL> .
I use a program called <URL> to mirror my Windows PC to my Apple TV ( third generation ) . There is also a version that works on Macs . Note that the ability to mirror a Mac to an AppleTV is a new feature of OS X Mountain Lion .
end question
start question
Can I put out a cigarette on aluminum Mac Books ?
I would say that the only damage caused by a cigarette to the aluminum itself would be cosmetic . Clearly , the pebbled surface will trap nicotine and ash on the Aluminum . I suspect that Apple <URL> their unibody parts - and if so , that creates a hard , durable layer of aluminum oxide that protects the metal from scratches , stains , and further oxidation I also expect that action would drive most neat freaks up the proverbial wall , but from a chemical and heat aspect - a single lit cigarette does n't have enough heat to do any damage . It would slightly warm up a small area of the case but do no harm to the insides . Also , I 've seen solid aluminum ashtrays in use for tens of years in harsh environments with no real pitting or permanent damage to them . An internet search for " milled aluminum ashtray " or " milled aluminum engine block " will show that aluminum ( and aluminum alloys ) can stand up to substantial heat in diverse settings . I would be more concerned at the smoke , tar , nicotine getting inside the display and the Mac , corroding the circuit boards , covering contacts in ports and clogging the blowers over time . Tacky , messy , provoke a reaction in others ? - yes Damage the aluminum surface ? - not so much
You can reinstall the OS back to the same version that it shipped with by using the restore discs that came with your Mac to wipe your disk and reinstall Mac OS X. However , just because Apple has officially dropped support for XP and Vista with Boot Camp does n't mean it will stop working - the most likely situation will be that new computers will have hardware that Apple will only provide Windows 7 drivers for . Existing hardware should be unaffected .
On my iPhone , I can find my MAC address by going into Settings , then General , then About . The wifi MAC address is listed under " Wi-Fi Address " . It 's likely that the MAC address for the iPad is in the same location .
The Kindle app stores <URL> files , but only downloads them for Amazon-purchased content that you have opened in the Kindle app on that computer . The AZW files are saved in ~ / Documents/My Kindle Content . Their names are random-looking ( like B0043M4ZH0_EBOK ) , so it takes a little work to figure out which file corresponds to which book . Here 's how you do that : Open the book of interest on Amazon.com ( make sure you 're looking at the Kindle edition ) . It 's URL will be something like this : , but all you 're interested in is the code after . In this case , it 's . So , you know that the AZW file with the name B0043M4ZH0_EBOK is The Ultimate Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy .
This only gives you one more notch below 1 , but it might do as much as you need it to . Use the decrease volume button to lower the volume to 0 . Then , press the Mute button once . This will let sound play , but at a lower volume than 1 . Also , you can change the volume in 1/4 increments with the following shortcuts : ⇧ + ⌃ + volume buttons in Snow Leopard ⇧ + option + volume buttons in Lion or later
Yes , of course you can . I myself use <URL> ( second <URL> ) to put my Macbook Pro into hibernation . And if you prefer to use the command line , read this <URL> .
The only way to obtain Mavericks legally is through the App Store , sorry .
Yes . I use it on Mountain Lion . Details here : <URL> . It 's not clear to me how Contacts.app is merging Google/iCloud duplicates that arise if you use iCloud , or handling editing of those duplicates . There 's no support for Google Group/Tag relationships or Mac Group/Tag relationships . Nobody has gotten it working on Snow Leopard , though if you want to try that ( do publish ) Hsiaoi 's technique is a good start ( <URL> ) . I suspect SSL is a problem . I believe it also works on Lion but I 've not tested .
This is currently not possible ( iOS 8 , OS X 10.10.3 ) . A similar question has been asked on the Apple Communities forum , and the consensus there was that it 's not possible : <URL> It 's possible that Apple will add this functionality in a later version of their software/OS .
The easiest way to do this is a program called " <URL> " . You can take iSight photo 's by typing the command imagesnap into terminal . Just incorporate imagesnap commands into a cron job or workflow of your command . ImageSnap is also available thru homebrew :
Open Terminal.app Type in ( or better copy-paste ;) : Execute This will display every file deletion on your system . If you want to only display the deletion of " ~ / . Trash " , add to the last command .
This was covered by <URL> . Here are the steps to get both the file where the signature is stored as well as the associated keychain entry to a second Mac . On the source Mac : Open the folder . In Finder , click the Go menu and hold option to show the Library folder . Alternatively , press ⇧ ⌘ G whilst Finder is active and enter the path above to directly navigate . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , copy the file . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , copy the file . Launch Keychain Access Ensure the login keychain is selected and choose the Passwords category . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , right-click the Preview Signature Privacy password and select Copy Password to Clipboard . This is the password used to encrypt the signature images . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , right-click the Signature Annotation Privacy password and select Copy Password to Clipboard . Paste it into a text editor and save the file . You 'll need to transfer this to your other computer ( s ) . On the destination Mac ( s ) : Launch Preview , open Preferences , and select the Signatures tab to ensure the default configuration files and folders have been created . Exit Preview . Ensure that the process is terminated . Open the folder . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , copy the file to the folder , overwriting any existing file . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , copy the file to the folder , overwriting any existing file . Launch Keychain Access On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , locate the Preview Signature Privacy password in the login keychain and double-click to edit . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , locate the Signature Annotation Privacy password in the login keychain and double-click to edit . Click the Show password checkbox and paste the password you copied from your original machine . Click Save Changes and you 're done ! In situations where the target machine has no existing Preview Signature Privacy or Signature Annotation Privacy record in Keychain Access , you must create a new record . This is necessary when the target machine ( like a Mac Pro with an older or third-party display attached ) has no camera which means no Signature file can be created from within Preview . Open Keychain Access as above and do the following : Click on the + icon to create a new entry On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , enter Preview Signature Privacy in the Keychain Item Name field . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , enter Signature Annotation Privacy in the Keychain Item Name field . Enter Preview in the Account Name field . Paste the password copied from your original machine , per above procedure . Click Add In the newly created entry , click Access Control Add Preview to applications allowed access Click Save Changes and you 're done !
Handbrake is a nice program that you can use to convert videos and DVDs . Since VCDs are nothing more than mpeg files ( with . dat ) extension , you can easily use Handbrake to transcode them to m4v . Handbrake also allows you to select which tracks you want to keep , although if each track is its own file , you may need to use MP4Box to merge them together . Handbrake is available at <URL> , and MP4Box can be downloaded from <URL> .
The last version of the OS to use this font as default was <URL> . For Mac OS 8 , Apple decided to discard this wonderful part of their brand 's identity , and commissioned David Berlow of the Font Bureau to design Charcoal . Apple actually released System 7 for free download <URL> . Conceivably you could load up System 7 in an emulator like <URL> and get the font out somehow . Or unpack the system images provided by Apple , though I do n't know which software you would need for that . Apple abandoned Chicago as of OSX , as evidenced by the outrage <URL> . Locally , I can buy an original iMac running OS 9 for 50 EUR . So you could buy one of those and transfer the font :-) UPDATE : extracting Chicago from System 7 Download the System 7 disk image from Apple for free <URL> Unpack System 7.0.1 . smi.bin with " The Unarchiver.app " ( free on the App Store <URL> ) Convert System 7.0.1 . smi to a dmg image using Disk Utility using the menu item ' Images > Convert ' Open the resulting System 7.0.1 . smi.dmg and get the Fonts.image inside Convert Fonts.image to a dmg using Disk Utility Open the resulting Fonts.image.dmg Enjoy your retro goodness .
According to <URL> : You 'll need a working OS X partition and you 'll need to reboot with Option + Command + O + F . It is a bit complicated so follow the link for more info . I personally would go with Ubuntu on your Powerbook . Follow <URL> for info on how to install . Although the guide is for a Power Mac G4 , it should work with your Powerbook .
The App Store found in iTunes is only for iPhone/iPod/iPad apps . Mac apps can be found on the <URL> . Angry Birds is available for Mac for <URL> . You can also play for free online at <URL> . Note that iPhone and iPad apps are not linked to desktop Mac apps , so when you buy an app for an iPhone or iPad , it does not come with a Mac version and there is no guarantee that a Mac version is even available . Sometimes apps are available on both the iOS ( iPhone/iPad ) App Store and the separate Mac App Store , as is the case for Angry Birds .
You may want to watch this <URL> - it shows the scenario that I believe you 're looking to solve - it uses Preview to create a multi-page PDF . The steps are : Open your images in Preview Select from the menu ( or ⌘ P ) Click on the " " button in the Print dialog and select " " from the dropdown Provide a file name and
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
I have a fairly generic ( mathematical ) answer , but can only find some of the actual numbers . After finding the 2010 Mac Mini <URL> from Apple , there are four important numbers : Tbooting = The time taken to boot up and shut down ( s ) Pbooting = The power consumption while booting or shutting down ( W ) Psleep = The power consumption while sleeping ( W ) Poff = The power consumption while off ( W ) The last is actually stated in the Mac Mini 's environmental report , and for very low sleep power usage ca n't just be ignored ! The total energy used during a period of sleep is : The total energy used from shutting down , being off for a time and booting up is : Requiring that , we can rearrange the inequality to give : The Mac Mini 's environmental report provides Psleep and Poff , and if we assume say 90 seconds total booting/shutting-down time and about 35W during said times , this would give an answer of 45 minutes . I 've yet to find similar values for the laptops ( they make a big deal about the Mac Mini being so energy efficient ) , and the booting power/times would really need to be measured to provide accurate figures . But it surprised me that it was only 1 hour ( I was expecting somewhat longer based on claims I 've read in the past , that went along the lines of <URL> ) . As @mankoff points out , there 's another option which is to hibernate using something like <URL> . In my experience this is usually faster than a full shutdown , and of course it uses the same ( incredibly low ) power while off/hibernating . So to compare mathematically , you can consider it a " shutdown " of sorts and use the same equations ( with the time taken to enter and recover from hibernate as Tbooting and the power usage while it swaps between RAM and disk as Pbooting ) . More than likely , this will reduce the the time answer since Tbooting should have been reduced somewhat . A final thought is that laptop batteries seem to lose voltage over time , even when off , at a higher rate than the Mac Mini 's advertised Poff . So the Poff value might actually be quite a bit higher for a computer with a battery , which may significantly lengthen the threshold between standby and shut-down/hibernate ( however the battery and charging circuitry will complicate measurements of Poff ) . And to further complicate things ( and possibly ruin the whole argument ! ) , more recent Mac laptops will write the contents of RAM to the disk even when they go to sleep , in case your battery runs flat while sleeping ( effectively preparing for a hibernate in case it 's forced ) .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
end question
start question
Can I run 533 MHz RAM in original Mac Pro ?
You ca n't use slower RAM . In fact I 've had trouble with some manufacture 's RAM even though it met the spec . You need to go to a site that guarantees any new RAM will work in a Macintosh . I did n't think that the original Mac Pro could run Mountain Lion . I 've got a Mac Pro 2.1 , from 2007 , that refuses to allow Mountain Lion to be installed . Did you hack this ?
No RAM or processor replacement in the Mac Mini 2014 An <URL> teardown reveals this . And @Pol posted a link to <URL> were you can read about the soldered RAM . The processor and the RAM is soldered onto the motherboard . Even in a clean room , a soldering iron and a steady hand , it would be nearly impossible . You are not allowed to do this on your own , your warranty will expire on this one . You can replace your RAM yourself , Apple has even provided a guide on how to do it on similar hardware ( 2012 model ) . Here you can find the guide : <URL> . No problems with your warranty .
No , no , no and no . Have fun with the 7200 rpm drive of your choice . Mac drive mounting hardware is excellent and the drive screws are standard sized . Unless you get a drive with exotic firmware or physically too large to fit , there will be no issues relating to design . Only a faulty drive ( or failing Mac ) will cause issues . Simple physics means a 7200 RPM drive has to generate more heat than a 5400 RPM drive , but in practice , this is well within a normal Mac 's ability to cool - even when you never let the drive spin down - something else like CPU load will be needed to get the internal fan to spin up .
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
No the first Mac Pro with a USB 3 port is the latest ( 6.1 , late 2013 ) From the <URL> for your particular Mac Pro : Connections and audio Four FireWire 800 ports ( two on front panel , two on back panel ) Five USB 2.0 ports ( two on front panel , three on back panel ) Two USB 2.0 ports on included keyboard Front-panel headphone minijack and internal speaker Optical digital audio input and output TOSLINK ports Analog stereo line-level input and output minijacks Multichannel audio through Mini DisplayPort A quick Google search shows several PCI Express USB 3.0 cards , e.g. , <URL> <URL> <URL>
The MacPro uses a proprietary interface - at least when it was first designed - for their SSD 's It is a PCIe 2.0 x4 spec . It was called " proprietary " because no other " workstation class " computer used these types of drives . They typically went with SATA or SAS ( enterprise class of course ) The best price you are going to find for these drives is through <URL> . You may be able to win an auction on ebay , but for the time and hassle , I usually just went with Amazon . These drive only work with the " grey " cylinder MacPro . You can get more info from <URL> What you might want to consider at this point is sticking with the SSD that you have and adding a thunderbolt drive . I personally use the <URL> 6GB with my iMac ( iMac has 256GB SSD ) . It is super fast and expandable . It has user serviceable drives so you can upgrade anytime you want . There are other options out there , but after all my research , I picked this one and I have been extremely happy with it . Update ( 3.31.16 ) A year later and this has n't changed much . OWC is apparently the only aftermarket manufacturer of these SSD with the PCIe 2.0 x4 interface . As far as SSD options , they seem to stop at 2013 for the MBA . I know , I have a relative that spilled milk on an MBA and have been looking for a USB to 2014 MBA SSD enclosure to transfer data and I can find none under $ 100 . It seems that the 2015 MBA SSD will work in the Mac Pro as they use the same SSD model ( see below ) . Source : <URL> <URL> The 2014 MBA uses the PCIe 2.0 x2 so I can not say if it will work or not ( and I would be unwilling to test out this theory given the high cost of the components ) . Source : <URL> <URL>
Further updates : Update 10:24 AM : <URL> has even more on the issue : " The Mac Pro met the previous standards prior to the amendment 1 addition . Obviously it 's a very safe and very reliable product , " added the company . At issue are the large fans within the Mac Pro . Since they are unprotected , it would be possible to touch the fan blades . " The new requirements necessitate fan guards and some increased protection on the ports on the electrical system , " explained Apple .
Absolutely ! At work we have multiple Mac Pro 's that have 1 monitor between them hot-swapped and while there 's up to 5 seconds of delay for the video to come through , it works great . You can hot-swap displays , but not video cards - if that makes sense .
There 's no way to turn the touch input off temporarily , but you can prevent the Apple Watch from stopping workouts early . When you start a workout just go to the watch face the way you normally would , the Workout will run in the background and ca n't be stopped until you go back to the app and it stop it yourself . It 's not perfect , as you ca n't see your live progress , but it still works .
Yes , yes you can ( although it may involve a firmware upgrade ) : <URL> ( Taken from : <URL> )
It is able to do so , I 'm doing this exact thing right now . I 've got two 1080p monitors connected , one via HDMI ( to DVI ) , one via Thunderbolt ( also to DVI ) - works all fine :-)
Yes Apple has released the <URL> ( see the bottom ) : iPhone 4s iPhone 5 iPhone 5c iPhone 5s iPod touch 5th generation iPad 2 iPad with Retina display ( iPad 3 ) iPad Air iPad mini iPad mini with Retina display
It gets 120 + ° F here during the summer sometimes , which is approximately 50 ° C . In the shade it 'll be approx . 10-20 ° cooler , and indoors approx . 78 ° F with A/C . The A/C does n't run full time , so if you were to turn off your A/C while recording then turn it back on periodically , you should be able to maintain a reasonable interior temperature , both for you and the computer without it impacting your recording . Plus , if you have good headphones , the only times you 'd need to turn off the A/C is while using a microphone to record voices or acoustic instruments . Electric guitars and basses , amps , keyboards and synths should be going direct or be loud enough that ambient noise from the A/C should n't be a problem .
Short answer ... No If your system is unsupported then you can not install Mavericks no matter how much memory you have . The problem is with the EFI not the memory .
Games Internet Explorer : If you are a web developer and want to test your website in IE ( which you have to ) . Also some corporate intranet applications work only on IE ( 6/7/8 compatibility mode ) . Microsoft Office : Yes , there is a version for the Mac , but some prefer the Windows version ( I remember reading sometime before somewhere , ( unable to find the link ) that the Windows version is better ) . Also , people like me who have a Windows PC ( my wife 's ) and a Macbook Pro at home , I can buy one Office Home and Student edition ( it comes with licence for 3 installs ) and use it on both . Learning Windows specific technology . For instance I want to learn C# . C# is best learnt in Microsoft Visual Studio ( IMHO ) . Games Games Games There was something else too ... oh yeah , games .
I ended up testing this myself . Syncing content works Restoring the device works I have n't exhaustively tested everything possible , but I did write up what I have tested in more detail on my blog . <URL>
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
You can use VNC to log into the mac from a client machine ( iOS , android , PC , Mac ) and establish the UI session , set excel to launch at boot and set the user account to automatically log in . You also will want remote access to the computer ( allowing ssh , and perhaps remote apple script ) so you can use and or perhaps another Mac to script things directly from <URL> .
end question
start question
is it possible to connect two external monitors with mini displayport + thunderbolt to displayport or hdmi ?
The thunderbolt port and display port are the same port . So it 's not two separate ports . That said , due to the high bandwidth nature of thunderbolt , I suspect we will be able to daisy chain monitors in the future , as well as having thunderbolt " hubs " where multiple devices can be plugged in . But for now , it 's one port . So only one external monitor .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Yes , it is true . MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) , MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) , MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) , Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) , iMac ( Late 2009 ) , Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later models supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort . There should n't be any dependencies for it to work other than an HDMI cable to use from your HDTV to your adapter . If you plan on purchasing a third party adapter make sure you confirm that it does both audio and video . <URL> <URL>
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
Nothing shipping immediately , however Sonnet did announce a <URL> that you could pair with a Firewire ExpressCard to give yourself some Firewire capabilities . Their site claims it will start to ship by December 14 , 2011 . At one point a direct Thunderbolt to Firewire adapter was announced , but I ca n't find any concrete info on it , so I would n't count on it appearing any time soon . Overall Thunderbolt support from anyone other than Apple has been pretty slow to take off . There have been some suggestions that Intel was slow releasing final specs for manufacturers and/or getting production hardware out the door . I 've also read that some manufacturers may be waiting for the 2nd generation of cheaper Thunderbolt chips to ship sometime in 2012 . Lots of promise in the technology , and I think it will take off sooner or later , but it 's still in the early stages unfortunately .
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
You need to set up either nfs , samba , or netatalk . You can then connect with , ( or ) or respectively . You can also run for to have your server show up automatically in the Finder via Bonjour .
No , it 's only recommended when unplugging the cable . The reason why you eject is so that any processes reading and writing from the disk will cause OS X to notify you of the disk being in use and prevent data corruption that can occur by just unplugging the disk while it 's in use . Additionally the OS might queue different write operations to a cache before actually writing them to disk , and ejecting will make sure these are flushed to the drive before it is disconnected . Halting any processes from reading/writing to the disk and flushing the caches is implied when rebooting or shutting down the machine ( unless you do a cold shutdown by pressing and holding the power button to turn it off ) . When logging out , the OS can flush the cache at its own discretion .
It is able to do so , I 'm doing this exact thing right now . I 've got two 1080p monitors connected , one via HDMI ( to DVI ) , one via Thunderbolt ( also to DVI ) - works all fine :-)
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Sorry , but currently it 's not possible . Thunderbolt ports on Macs can output a Mini Displayport signal , but the Thunderbolt Display can only receive a Thunderbolt signal , nothing else . It 's possible that an adapter to do this could be released in the future , but IMO that 's unlikely or if it happens will be quite expensive .
How Daisy Chaining Works Daisy chaining is connecting multiple devices in series , as in this diagram : Note that this shows some disk drives , but they could be any Thunderbolt devices . Each device in the chain ( except for the last ) needs two Thunderbolt ports -- one to connect to the downstream devices ( those closer in the chain to the Mac ) and one for the upstream ( to pass the data on to the devices further along the chain ) . Additionally , each chain supports a maximum of six devices , and there can only be one non-Thunderbolt display , and it must be at the end of the chain . Making Your Situation Feasible Because of these limitations , you wo n't be able to connect the devices you have using Thunderbolt alone . Unfortunately Apple 's ethernet adapter does n't have multiple ports for passthrough , so you can only use it at the end of a chain . If your displays were Thunderbolt based , it would be do-able , but it sounds like they 're not . The best suggestion I can give you is to use the HDMI port on your Retina MBP to connect one of your monitors ( this will work if it has either a DVI or HDMI input ) , however this limits the resolution to 1920x1200 , so for hi-res panels ( like those found on some 27 " and 30 " displays ) , you wo n't be getting the full benefit of the display . If you 're still stuck , there are USB 3 ethernet adapters available now that will do full gigabit . There might be a bit more overhead than the Thunderbolt adapter , but it 's better than nothing .
Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays . <URL> The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained . In fact , the devices you daisy chain does n't matter , nor does the order they are in . However , like with the Display Port and eSATA , the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature . Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining , this will not be possible . The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port , the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself . The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices . Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient . Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port . Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream . Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon , I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule .
No , you can not do this ( <URL> ) . You should strongly consider not using WPS anyway , as it has a number of <URL> . Apple has a page which <URL> for connecting an iOS device , which might help .
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
Yes , I too am a developer using a mid-2011 Mac Mini ( with AMD Radeon GPU ) connected to two Samsung displays one display connected using HDMI cable which comes with the Mac Mini , and another display connected using an Apple DisplayPort to VGA cable which I had to buy separately .
end question
start question
How do I view which devices are connected to my AirPort Extreme using AirPort Utility v6 .0 ?
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
The problem got partially better on its own , and it 's not clear why . There were also a lot of old networks in the list of previous wifi networks in System Preferences , and it helped to delete them . The complete fix , however , ended up being to go into the list of wireless networks ( in System Preferences > Networks > Airport , Advanced ) and move the desired network up to the top of the list so it was joined first . There was one called " linksys " on top that was matching a neighbor 's network , and then failing to get internet access for some reason ; I think it was added a long time ago for a different network of the same name . I thought I had tried this before , but either something changed or I did n't actually try it . I 'm asking this question to help me troubleshoot someone else 's computer , so I 'm not aware of everything that might have changed since I originally posted the question .
Yes . Airplay is really a technology platform that allows for streaming media on a local network . It is n't concerned with the type of device that is producing the media or consuming it . To start with , support may be limited and may not come from Apple . However , certainly that will change with demand . For example : There is an iOS app called <URL> which allows streaming of media to an iPhone/iPod/iPad . There is a Mac proof-of-concept app also called <URL> which allows streaming of media to a Mac .
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
Yes , everything you have described is possible . If you have an Airport Express or other airplay destination on your network , the remote app will allow you to select and control the output location . As seen on <URL> Enjoy !
This uses the airport CLI , with the flag to show information and grep for SSID shows the name of the network .
Yes Apple has released the <URL> ( see the bottom ) : iPhone 4s iPhone 5 iPhone 5c iPhone 5s iPod touch 5th generation iPad 2 iPad with Retina display ( iPad 3 ) iPad Air iPad mini iPad mini with Retina display
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
Not yet on a 2nd gen 802.11 n Express . Apple has published <URL> on the Airport Express : <URL> The three expresses prior to that were not 802.11 n so perhaps that 's where the three previous generations ( and the 1st and only newer generation names have come to be ) A tad confusing , no ?
Pros : All works . Easy to use . Easy to Configure . Does Backups of your data . Allows iTS purchases . Handles everything for you . And every other iTunes feature that you might consider important ( AirTunes for example ) . Cons : iTunes might be a " heavy " application for some machines with limited RAM . Even if all you want is a music player , iTunes is all or nothing .
Try the steps detailed at this URL : <URL> Find your Mac 's MAC address for the Wi-Fi network interface . See How to Find Your Mac 's MAC Address for instructions . Open the AirPort Utility application . ( It 's in Applications → Utilities . ) The window shown below appears . Click the AirPort Extreme 's icon . The status pop-up window appears . Click Edit . The settings window appears . Select the Network tab . The window shown below appears . Click the + button under the DHCP Reservations field . The window shown below appears . Enter a descriptive name for your Mac in the Description field . From the Reserve Address By menu , select MAC Address . Enter your Mac 's MAC address in the MAC Address field . Enter the static IP address you want to assign to your computer . For more information , see step 9 in How to Set a Static IP Address in Mac OS X. Click Save . Click Update . The AirPort will restart to apply the changes .
If you quit the application and re-start it , that seems to resolve any devices that connect and get missed when you plug them in after the application has launched and enumerated the connected USB devices . Even if you have iTunes and Xcode and other apps running , I 've not seen Image Capture fail to recognize connected devices if you restart the program and I have certainly seen it miss device connects on occasion when other apps are running and want to talk with an iOS device .
DynDNS does support <URL> ( mDNS ) , which provides the ability to do dynamic DNS and much more . They even have <URL> for setting it up with an Airport Device . It will cost you a $ 30/yr standard account , though .
Devices not supported by iOS 5 : iPhone ( original ) iPhone 3G iPod Touch first generation iPod Touch second generation AppleTV Source : <URL> . " iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS , iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod Touch 3rd generation , iPod Touch 4th generation , iPad , iPad 2 . "
Yes , that is in fact the purpose of the AirPlay feature . Just plug it to your stereo or active speaker with the jack on the rear . A small " airplay " icon ( see the example on the <URL> ) will appear appear in iTunes or iPhone/iPad when you play music . You can then select whether you want your music on the Airport Express router or on your computer / iDevice .
Not a complete answer , but this document might help : <URL> To be listed as a backup destination , the AFP server must advertise it with specific features and flags turned on . Airport Extreme storage does n't show up because it 's missing something from that list , but the question is what ? I found a reference to the Extreme 's AFP implementation lacking some caching capabilities ( <URL> ) but I have no idea if that 's true . It is plausible that it does n't have the storage required for the replay cache . It 's also plausible that it does have all these features but Apple chose simply not to enable the Time Machine flag . Note that the newest generation ( the big ones with 802.11 ac ) does now officially support Time Machine , so this does n't seem to be an issue anymore . That 's probably because they 're now almost identical to the current Time Capsule inside .
Per Thermaltake support : The Airport Extreme Base Station can not provide the proper driver support for the docking unit . The docking station was designed to be directly connected to a computer 's USB port . Not a very satisfactory answer , but I guess it is the answer . I expected it to simply function as USB 2.0 speeds , rather than not working at all .
Unfortunately not ; Not without using another router with network Access Control Lists ( ACL ) . Airport 's Timed Access Control rejects all connection attempts to the access point from selected device based on it 's MAC address . It does n't give you any options for more granular Access Level Control in order to specify network resources the device will have access to ; as you have probably noticed by now , you only have control over scheduling . A solution to your issue would unfortunately involve buying another router that will allow for configuring ACL to the degree you need it to .
Looks like the answer is Yes . From Apple Forums : The AirPort Express can only " extend " a wireless signal ... using wireless only ... from another AirPort Extreme , Time Capsule , or AirPort Express . <URL>
No - the power supply expects 100-240 VAC and lists the current draw as 1.5 A which seems quite high for the heat it puts out , but perhaps with several USB drives connected and max power it gets even half that usage in real life . You certainly can take DC power from POE <URL> , but those all seem to provide 1A at 12 VDC which is a far cry short of the wattage listed for the Airport Extreme . I doubt you 'd find a DC to AC inverter that would generate enough AC to run the Airport though ...
end question
start question
Why did syncing with iTunes delete one of my photos folders ?
Suggestion 1 : I think you would be a new user to the iPod/iPhone/osx / iTunes family . If your afraid or do n't understand what is happening during synchronization using iTunes , I suggest you to use a utility called <URL> Just Explorer the iPhone/iPod/iPad like a file system . You would get your images under directory . images are grouped in directories like , and so on . Just explore and copy it . Suggestion 2 : Synchronization - means A single machine and an iPod synchronization . Not multiple machines and an iPod . If you synchronizes from other machine it will erase all of your old data . According to me , you had the problem just because you might have synchronized from other machines iTunes .
Try using <URL> to detect and identify neighboring and overlapping wireless access points ( WAPs ) . It 's likely an interference issue that can be solved with vigilance . You need to find out what channels your neighbor 's WAPs are using , and then switch your router to use the least crowded channel you can find . Ideally you want to use channels 1 , 6 , or 11 . These are the channels that have the most leeway when it comes to other channels interfering with their signal . Wifi devices operating on a particular channel can interfere with other devices operating on channels up to 5 steps away . The amount of interference grows logarithmically with signal strength and channel proximity . For example , if you are using channel 1 and your nearest neighboring wireless network is also using channel 1 , you are receiving a large amount of interference . If you are on 1 and the other network is on 6 , the interference is negligible . However , if you are on channel 1 and your neighbor is using channel 3 , you are likely still on the receiving end of a huge amount of interference depending on their WAPs signal strength . iStumbler will give you information about the signal strengths emanating from the other interfering WAPs , and from there you can infer the best channel to use . You may need to periodically perform the same task as your neighbors change their wifi channels .
<URL> and the cheaper <URL> both have options that can take one large image and automatically crop out sub-images . In Photoshop , the command you 're looking for is File → Automate → Crop and Straighten Photos . In Elements , it 's Image → Divide Scanned Photos . For more details , read <URL> and <URL> . If you do n't want to spend the money on Photoshop , you can download <URL> , and use <URL> to perform the separation . However it 's worth noting that it 's a command-line tool , so some familiarity with the command-line would help , although if you read the instructions on the script page carefully , that should be enough to get started . Whatever tool you use , when you 're scanning your photos , make sure you leave some space between them , and use something that will give a high contrast background , so the software will have a better chance of picking up where one photo begins and another ends .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
Maybe the trash folder is not correctly set on your iPhone . Depending on the email-provider , you may have to choose the correct " deleted " folder in your account settings on the iPhone . ( maybe the translations are not literally , i am using a German iPhone ) : Go to " Settings " - > " Mail , contacts ... " , choose your IMAP account , choose " account info " , look at the bottom and choose " advanced " . Here you can choose which folder is your trash folder .
If the folders are the same name , drag one to the location of the other , and BEFORE releasing the mouse or trackpad , hold down the key . You will be presented with three options , one of which is to Merge .
<URL> A PC , like a Mac , will see the iPad as a camera . Instead of using an application to load the photos , you can just browse to them in Windows Explorer and copy them to a local folder .
When you do this , you should get a dropdown selection box that has your various email addresses in it . You can choose in there . If your gmail does n't show up there , then go to iPhoto in the menu , click Preferences , click Accounts , click the plus , click Email , click Add , click Gmail , and provide the relevant info .
It 's there , it just goes away sometimes . While the " Sync " button used to be reliably present in the same location in iTunes 10 , it -- as well as others -- now vanishes occasionally in what ( presumably ) is a context sensitive manner .
Not at this time . You can not make a folder within a folder in iOS .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
Not at the moment , but when iOS 7 is released later , the wishlist feature will be available using a button in the corner of the app ( <URL> )
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
Suggestion 1 : I think you would be a new user to the iPod/iPhone/osx / iTunes family . If your afraid or do n't understand what is happening during synchronization using iTunes , I suggest you to use a utility called <URL> Just Explorer the iPhone/iPod/iPad like a file system . You would get your images under directory . images are grouped in directories like , and so on . Just explore and copy it . Suggestion 2 : Synchronization - means A single machine and an iPod synchronization . Not multiple machines and an iPod . If you synchronizes from other machine it will erase all of your old data . According to me , you had the problem just because you might have synchronized from other machines iTunes .
When the phone is asleep ( also known as hibernation mode ) , the WiFi radio is shut off after a time to conserve battery power . Anything that occurs on the phone , such as receiving notifications , background app updates , et cetera , uses the cellular network instead of WiFi . The one notable exception would be iCloud backup , for which the phone wakes the WiFi radio .
No . Only iMessages sent from the time you set up Messages on your Mac can be received . Note that you are not actually syncing between Messages on iPhone and Messages on Mac - you are adding a new device to receive a copy of each message sent . When you register a device for iMessage , a set of keys ( a public key and a private key ) are created . The public key is sent to Apple , while the private key remains private and known only to your device . When someone wants to send you a message , their app contacts Apple and requests your public key ( s ) . If you have four devices registered , they will receive four public keys . At that point , their device encrypts the message once for each public key . Only your private key for a particular device can open the encrypted messages intended for that device . So if ( by some technical problem ) the copy of the message intended for your iPhone was sent to your Mac by mistake , it wo n't be able to be opened , even though it 's for you and was encrypted with your public key . Hopefully this makes it clear why messages sent prior to registering your MacBook with iMessage can not be retrieved - simply put , they do n't exist in a form that can be read by your MacBook . Even if Apple kept a copy of the messages at the time they were sent ( which they for up to seven days , or until the message is received by the intended device , whichever comes first ) , only your iPhone can decrypt them . <URL> has a good overview of iMessage encryption ( which goes into more detail on what I 've outlined above ) .
Instead of Uninstalling these apps , you could just hide them . Doing this in Terminal : Will hide the application from sight , but will still be there . Here is the link for the source : <URL>
It seem to be impossible to get rid of this account . What I 've done is : connect to my <URL> ( with my AppleID , the same for the AppStore and other ) go to mail in ( top right ) choose add a rule to redirect all e-mails received at my @me . com adress to my main e-mail . It can take several minutes to work , but I do n't loose anything like that .
If you mean the usage on the mobile network , it is shown in Settings - > Mobile network , all the way down , scroll down to see when it 's been reset .
end question
start question
Does apple have a volume purchasing program ( vpp ) that includes Macs ?
Yes , a volume purchase program for the Mac does exist ! <URL> Note that this looks like it is for Apple software only .
If you go to the Utility folder on your Mac , open the Activity Moniitor . Then go to the Memory tab . There you will see who is using how much . There is also a Disk Tab , where you can also see who is using how much on active basis ( when programs are running ) . You wont see the passive usage ( how much information is stored ) in that window . In this example the application Firefox Using Memory : Using Disk space : How much space is a Application occupying on the disk , is answered by looking in your Finder - Applications then under the - Size coulomb . Again in my example , the Firefox occupies 147 MB of permanent disk space , which is not the same as the information above which was for the active situation . Back to your original problem - slow computer : In the Activity Monitor look now in the CPU tab to see who is most active there .
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
This sure takes me back to my university days ... <URL> has still got to be one of the best terminal-based mail clients out there . It 's been around longer than I 'd like to admit . It 's available as a <URL> package : Overall you 'll get a much better experience using something like Mutt than you will with something like because it supports IMAP , POP3 and SMTP -- you do n't have to learn sendmail or anything like that to get it to work with your accounts . You can even use Mutt with Gmail if that 's your bag . See <URL> . Pretty colours ...
Sort of ... you can go into Safari , choose a website , then click the bookmark icon , select the @ tab , click Subscriptions and then click Add Current Site . Otherwise Reeder for IOS is a great RSS reader . <URL>
Yes , the App Store exists as that was introduced with iPhone OS 2.0 , however most apps on the store do not support iPhone OS 3.1.3 ( the last version available for the 1st generation iPod touch ) . Emojis can be activated through <URL> on the App Store .
Occassionally I use <URL> when giving demos to help the audience track my mouse movements . Mouse Locator does n't increase the size of the mouse pointer per say , instead it " paints a target " around the pointer when you start moving the mouse . The target makes it easier to locate the pointer location . <URL> also does this , but the effects are flashier .
As far as I can tell its just means as long as it 's connected via bluetooth and in range . There is n't a Touch ID scanner on the watch or anything like that so I do n't think that it forms an knid of " signature " to you .
Apparently the only ways to find out a Mac 's serial number ( if you do n't have the Mac physically present ) are : When you had the Mac , you : Registered it with Apple ( check <URL> ) Ran and saved a copy of System Profiler 's output Without the Mac : Have a sales receipt from a retailer that puts the serial number on their receipts Purchased it from a retailer that keeps track of serial numbers Find the box the Mac came in Thankfully , after I posted this question , the buyer was able to find the original box , which gave him the serial number . But the actual answer to the question is : No , Macs do not normally store their serial number in a disk file .
It 's probably no different hardware-wise , just already formatted for the Mac . There 's a whole pile of people who still think Macs need special everything , so the companies take advantage of that to fleece them out of an extra # 20 . In general , you do n't need special Mac-only hardware stuff anymore . Hard drives , RAM , peripherals , etc. are all fairly generally universally compatible ; even the stuff that 's generally seen as " Mac " ( i.e. , FireWire and now Thunderbolt ) is Windows - and Linux-compatible and will generally work fine . EDIT : I guess I can think of one good reason to buy a pre-formatted " Mac " drive : if the user is not someone who is comfortable formatting disks . On the other hand , Disk Utility is sufficiently straightforward I 've walked my parents through formatting drives a couple of times over the phone , so I would n't waste the money .
Your ringer volume adjusts the volume of the sound coming out of the phone when it 's ringing . If the phone is not playing media ( i.e. no sound is coming out of it ) then the volume buttons on the side adjust the ringer volume . If you are playing media ( music , video , etc ) out the internal speakers , then the buttons on the side adjust the volume of that media coming out those speakers . Finally , when you have headphones plugged in , the iPhone knows this and has a separate volume for headphones . Using the volume buttons will adjust the headphones volume when headphones are plugged in . The reason why these are separate is because sometimes you want to mute your ringer , but still want to listen to media ( or vice versa ) , and because the headphone and internal speaker volumes are different and need to be adjusted separately .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
Yes . <URL> Video mirroring and video out support : Up to 1080p with Apple Digital AV Adapter or Apple VGA Adapter ( cables sold separately ) Video out support at 576p and 480p with Apple Component AV Cable ; 576i and 480i with Apple Composite AV Cable
Apple do n't make a modem , but depending on your internet/cable/fiber provider , you may be able to encourage them to give you one for free . I have Virgin Media in the UK and new customers receive a new Super Hub free ( which can easily be configured to be a slave modem , you just turn the wireless off ) . The same is true of most of the free ' hubs ' provided by networks these days .
The app can do that can do what you want is <URL> . You can drag &amp; Drop files from desktop to desktop and get and push clipboards from and to other computer . The best set is to have 2 monitors ( having the remote desktop fullscreen-ed ) , so that you can stare at the two computers at the same time . If you do n't , you will have a window with the desktop of your second mac . Another advantage of this solution is to you only have one keyboard and one mouse in front of you . And you can also put the second computer away from your desk . You just need to have it connected to you network .
It turns out that there is SATA 3 on board , it just was n't enabled until 4 May 2011 . The Other World Computing <URL> has the details : While <URL> is described as including " fixes that improve performance and stability for Thunderbolt , " it would also seem that an unadvertised benefit is that it also unlocks the full 6Gb/s , SATA 3.0 capabilities of two of the internal drive bays . Unfortunately , the optical bay remains at 3Gb/s .
Yes , newer versions of Bash are released under GPLv3 This question brings out armchair lawyers that argue points for and against GPLv3 . Simply put , GPLv3 conflicts with Apple 's Licensing Policies ( among other licenses ) . None of these licenses prevent you from downloading the source code and compiling a newer version of Bash . On a historical note , Bash was not originally offered as a shell in OS X. Apple does not supply any software under the GPLv3 license .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
Can I have both a case-insensitive system volume and a case-sensitive volume within an encrypted CoreStorage volume ? Core Storage : can not create a volume within a volume can create a logical volume ( LV ) within a logical volume group ( LVG ) . ... to keep the main system volume case-insensitive ... That 's reasonable . ... to have my home dir be case-sensitive ... Maybe desirable , but please beware : some software for OS X may not work as expected in that environment . I thought first of Adobe , found examples from 2012 and 2013 : <URL> <URL> An example -- OS X 10.9.5 , Mavericks I used Disk Utility to create two partitions from a USB flash drive ( at at the time ) , then erased each of the unencrypted file systems -- and opted to encrypt . For both encryptions I chose the same passphrase that is used to encrypt the FileVault 2 OS X startup volume . The relevant part of output from : Limitations I rebooted the Mac to check whether either logical volume family ( LVF ) was automatically unlocked before loginwindow is launched by launchd . As expected , no automation of that sort . Issues With Mavericks I can find no way to create more than one LV within an LVF . The following articles state that it 's possible to do so : <URL> ( 2011-08-05 ) <URL> ( 2011-08-14 ) <URL> ( 2013-02-25 ) In the Franke article it 's remarkable that the same UUID is used to both ( a ) shrink an existing LV ; and ( b ) create another LV in the same LVF . Unless I 'm missing something , this approach is impossible with Mavericks . For example : Assuming a bug in Core Storage in Mavericks We should review this answer -- maybe add another -- after Yosemite is released . ( I should not expect a fix in Mavericks . )
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
end question
start question
Lion kills application behind the scene , how to put application on a do not kill list ?
You ca n't . Check out <URL> on the Apple discussion forum . You can also read <URL> from TUAW .
From Citrix.com - <URL> This is the instructions for Online rather than Receiver . The process is identical for each , substituting the Receiver . dmg file ( the Receiver instructions are in a pdf rather than online &amp; ca n't be copy/pasted ) Citrix Online Plug-in ( client ) for Mac installs files into multiple folders . Here is an easy way to uninstall : Download the installer from <URL> . Open the file and select Uninstall option . <URL>
This is pretty much impossible . Each program does n't directly use battery power - they all use the CPU , which uses battery power . But every other hardware component uses power as well - the screen , GPU , hard drive/SSD , etc. . And of course you 're not just running one program at a time , you 're typically running several , plus all the background processes for the OS and other services . This is further complicated by how the OS and CPU allocate resources - despite how it appears , everything is n't running simultaneously , the CPU just switches between tasks every quickly , giving the appearance of everything running concurrently . On top of that , modern CPUs can change the amount of power they draw depending on the tasks going on . So the effect that each program has on battery life depends on a lot of factors , most of which are n't easily measurable . The closest you could get might be tracking the CPU utilization of each program over time , and making an estimate based on the battery drain over that period . However that would be a very rough estimate , and not very accurate for any useful purpose I can think of .
So long as your USD99 annual membership fee for Mac Developer Program is current ( and you do n't break the Agreement or any NDA ) , that paid membership already covers the following typical software distribution costs : set up your App ID for distributing your app set up and download credentials needed to sign the app for distribution via the App Store . keeping your tax information and deducting the appropriate withholding on apps sold for selected countries ' App Store . review of your app hosting of your app ( at App Store ) etc. .
As you will buy one of the latest Macs , you should be fine . The used Intel processors support <URL> which is also used in Filevault 2 . Ars Technica , published an <URL> on Filvault 2 in Lion . They say : Apple also leverages the special-purpose AES instructions and hardware on Intel 's newest CPUs , further reducing the CPU overhead . The end result is that regular users will be hard-pressed to notice any reduction in performance with encryption enabled . Edit : These are real world numbers from my MBP with an Intel 2635QM processor which supports AES encryption . My hard drive is a Crucial M4 128GB . Filevault 2 disabled : max . read 510MB/s , write : I forgot to write this down :( Filevault 2 enabled : max . read 490MB/s , write : 190MB/s I mention only the max . numbers as these figures depend on different factors for file operations . The difference for maximum read here is 20MB/s abosolutely which is 4 % relatively .
In system preferences security change the download from to anywhere .
One of the best applications is <URL> ( 40 $ ) by Red Sweater Software . It supports many blog types ( including Tumblr ) , and allows both HTML and Rich Text editing . I think it also allows editing Wordpress pages and not only blog posts . It handles image uploading , editing of posts and supports multiple blogs . Some of the cons of MarsEdit are its HTML editing shortcuts and macros which are a little uncomfortable and a bit too little . If you 're comfortable with HTML , then the known <URL> text editor can also be used as an editor for blog posts and then you can either copy/paste from there or use a blogging bundle which will let you upload from there . TextMate can also show you live preview of your HTML in a separate window . Of course , being a specialized application , MarsEdit is more feature rich in the blogging sense but TextMate has a better editor ( obviously ) .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
Try <URL> . I replaced the built-in apps switcher with this utility which lets me to view full screen windows including a feature to search active windows by title .
Applications that are distributed on disk images ( files ) are designed to be installed using drag and drop . You can safely drag and drop the application from the virtual drive into your Applications folder and use it from your Applications folder . After copying it to your Applications folder it 's safe to eject the virtual drive and delete the disk image file . Nearly all applications will work just fine running off that virtual hard drive as they store their content in your user folder ( eg . browsers , mail applications , etc. ) . It will however stop you from running application updates as the disk image is read only .
This OSXDaily article <URL> describes a method of doing this . You may have noticed that when you log out or reboot Mac OS X Lion , you get a dialog window with a checkbox next to " Reopen windows when logging back in " that restores all of your currently open applications and windows . If you do n't like it and you 're tired of unchecking the box to no longer reopen the windows , you can use a third party script to render the feature useless . To clarify , what this does is disable the feature completely on a constant basis , regardless of whether that checkbox to preserve windows is checked or not , the windows will not restore . Type the following command to download the script , place it in the appropriate location , make it executable , run it , then remove it : The content of the script is for those who want to know what 's being executed and/or do it manually is : Finally , if you want to go back to normal resume behaviour type :
I use <URL> which works on the basic principle of temporarily replacing the current menubar with a shorter one to allow all the menubar icons to be visible . It can be accessed by clicking on the icon , via mouse gestures , or a configurable hotkey .
Generally , yes , since most applications are installed through copying the application from a DMG file into your Applications folder . However , this is not always the case , since applications can also be installed through the use of OS X Installer or a 3rd party installer . As a rule of thumb , if an application was installed through an installer , copying the from the Applications folder wo n't be enough . If you wish to backup an application that came from an installer , you will usually require that installer . If you have a valid license for the software ( e.g. Photoshop ) you can redownload the installer from Adobe 's website and use that to install it . When you entered your key into the application , it will have created a hardware-linked key that ensures the software can not be copied to a new computer without re-entering the software key . The easiest way is just to use the installer itself to reinstall the software . In addition , do n't forget about the additional files that may be created when you run the application . For example , files in the Application Support folder . You can use an complete app remover such as <URL> to list the files that may be related to the app . In this case , there was a preference file in that holds DaisyDisk 's user preferences . Copying this file to a different computer in the same place should keep the preferences . On the other hand , cache files such as those in are not usually necessary to be backed-up/copied .
I do n't think there will be any with a compiler , due to iOS and App Store restrictions . The best thing on an iPhone or iPod I think would be a text editor to write code ( I use <URL> and its Dropbox syncing ) and an SSH app ( I use <URL> ) to compile and run the code . Though it might be tough to keep a connection during a commute for SSH . If you need a computer to SSH to , you could use an Amazon EC2 app to create and use a box on the go . I have n't done that yet , so I do n't have a good recommendation , but it 's on my list of things to try . Also , if you have an iPad , <URL> is a fantastic code editor , but it 's not available on iPhone or iPod .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
Yes , it 's called . You can tell I 've had this problem before ! :(
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
I 've re-installed the OS many times since , so the original issue no longer bugs me . But I did find a third party application " Shortcut Detective " ( <URL> ) that comes very close .
You can add an AppleLanguages array to the plist of an application : See for the language identifiers . <URL> is a GUI for doing the same thing .
There 's no default application to handle . rar file on Mac OS X . You might want to try <URL> . It can open many format besides rar files . Then once you installed it , open its preferences and select all the file format you want him to manage .
end question
start question
Is it possible to only see contacts with phone numbers ?
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Yes , you can only use PayPal with iTunes US , and in that PayPal , you 'll need to have a US bank account or have your locations and any credit cards/debit 's on there will have to be located in the US as iTunes checks for that as well . It all has to be in the US , and can not have any other bank or CC company for any other country .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
I have not tried this , personally , but there are good instructions for doing so with a Tripp Lite ( née Keyspan ) USB-to-Serial adapter and an <URL> . Obviously , you can ignore the Apple II-specific parts of the instructions ( the majority of the article ) and focus on the adapter , the cable , and getting to run .
You need to drag a tab - Safari wo n't let you drag an entire window into another one . You can hit ⌘ T to create a new empty tab ( thus making the tab interface visible ) , then drag your original tab to the other window .
iOS Numbers does not support conditional formatting , and it is removed from the document upon import . According to <URL> the following changes are made on iOS ( my emphasis ) : 3D charts are converted to 2D charts . Chart data is retained and editable . Conditional formatting is removed from imported spreadsheets . Cell content is retained . Table Categories are removed . Tables remain organized and category names are retained as static text . Filters are removed .
<URL> - look for Apple USB to dock connector in the store . It also comes with most chargers and dock accessories if you want a bundle .
On your iPhone , you can <URL> , and enable Contacts synchronization . Assuming you 're on Mac OS X , you can also set up Google Synchronization with Address Book app and Contact synchronization with iTunes . I 've had issue with the former concerning the addresses , the city , postal code , etc. fields were n't correctly mapped . YMMV . On the plus side , the modification made to either Gmail or the iPhone are immediately applied to the other . The second works fine for me , the downside is that you have to connect your iPhone to your computer when you want to share the modifications you made to the contacts .
The Quit menu item in Finder can be enabled by Onyx , Cocktail , Secrets etc Directly in Terminal with
Select Netbeans in Finder , right click and press " Get Info " ( or press Cmd ⌘ - I on the keyboard ) . In the window that pops up , check " Open in Low Resolution " .
I do n't believe this is possible at this time . Read receipts in iMessage appears to be an all-on or all-off option only .
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
No , there is simply no way to encode HD resolution video onto a DVD . This is a common misconception . The DVD video format does not support HD resolution . DVD players can not reproduce 720HD video . If you want HD on a disk , that is what <URL> disks and Blu-ray console players are for . There was once a format called HD-DVD , but it is no longer supported by anybody and standard DVD players will not play back an HD-DVD at the intended resolution . <URL> is 1280 x 720 pixels per frame . The highest resolution that the <URL> can support is 720 x 480 pixels per frame for NTSC ( or 720 x 576 pixels per frame for PAL ) , which is at best only 37.5 % of the resolution of 720HD .
end question
start question
Why Mac OS X requires any amount of free disk space ?
The amount of space the OS needs is neither fixed nor predictable . It depends on a huge number of factors : what programs you run , what you do in them , what background activity they trigger , what background activity happens for other reasons , etc. . Hard drive space is used for overflow from RAM , logs , temporary files , etc. . If the system reserved a fixed amount of space for this , it would wind up being bigger than it needs to be a lot of the time ( and hence waste space ) , and too small some of the time ( which would be very bad ) .
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
So far the only risk I 've found is that some applications will overwrite the custom extended attributes . TextEdit is one such example . It will remove the attribute and add a quarantined attribute in its place , which will cause the Finder to give you a warning ( that it was downloaded from the internet ) when you open it . So if you do n't want to lose the metadata you 've added to your custom attributes , do n't open in unsafe applications like TextEdit . TextMate and SublimeText 2 and do n't damage your data , however . ( And as for name collisions , just follow the reverse DNS naming that Java uses . For example ' com.yourdomain.yourcustomname ' . )
The free screen capture tools built into QuickTime and the OS will allow you to take full screen video capture as well as partial captures . You can then edit these down using preview and iMovie to crop and adjust them . This takes time , so there is room for some inexpensive apps that help you by pre-defining the capture area so you do n't have to edit down a larger file or worry about being pixel perfect each time you make another capture using the mouse/trackpad . I use <URL> for static images and used <URL> for video images until Mavericks came out . It does n't work now , so <URL> is my tool of choice if QuickTime does n't cut it . I 'm hoping Screeny gets updated since it 's lighter and simpler . Nothing will replace ScreenFlow for big projects due to it 's post production workflow tools , but you might be well served by a less expensive option or even prefer simplicity over complexity if that 's more important than a one time cost . Skitch is currently free , Screeny is $ 15 and ScreenFlow $ 99 - all are available on the Mac App Store .
On newer OS X , you can access these advanced features from the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar . Hold shift and option ( only ) when clicking on the icon : <URL> The debug menu has most of the action oriented items you 'll need : <URL> I 've never seen resetting the module work better than powering it off , but I 'm sure theres cases where that saves a trip to the repair shop . Logging is useful , but the logs are very very large , so keep that in mind and set a reminder to turn it off tomorrow . On older OS , you needed a developer tool to systematically remove pairing records and HID devices . Bluetooth Explorer ships with Xcode 3 . ( as of today , early June 2011 - this is something available at no cost if you agree to the terms of the free developer program . It might also be bundled with Xcode 4 - available with paid download or paid mac developer program - but I ca n't vouch for that ) You can also browse the <URL> for free to learn more about bluetooth implementation . The explorer has a detailed window with many settings to automate resetting devices for testing . Here is a portion of the window showing that not only are the local mac settings cleared , it will reach out to Apple Bluetooth devices and reset their internal state as well . Since bluetooth has to start very soon in the boot process ( and is part of the setup assistant since new macs that have no accounts have to know how to set up Bluetooth keyboards and mouse out of the box ) it 's not just a simple user preference file but instead a system level preference and stored in several locations . You will be able to make your mac factory fresh to test bluetooth with the Bluetooth Explorer .
The obvious benefit is to recompile the tools with optional features that Apple chose to not enable when they compiled the tools . Also , you can get newer options / patches / bug-fixes if you do n't mind the duplication and the fact that sometimes you also get new bugs with the newer code as well . The downside is that tools like tar and zip know about Mac OS X metadata that the MacPorts versions probably do not .
In my case I wanted to format the parition as NTFS for installing Windows 7 on it . The last parameter is the partition 4 on first disk .
The OS X disk utility checks the HFS + volume header , and its backup header ( located in the last block of the disk ) . If both match , then the rest of the disk is assumed to be consistent . That 's along the lines of quick fsck ( 8 ) check . Another quick check for journal consistency is performed if you 've set up journaling , and if that also checks ok , then the rest is skipped . You can always run fsck manually , or - <URL> has a tool called HFSleuth which - while directed at programmer/hacker types - can allow you to do a more thorough check .
When you say that you disabled the firewall , do you mean the one in : , or the IP Firewall that you can access from the command line ? Or perhaps both ? To check to see if you have rules , you can always go to the terminal and type in : You might also use to check if the port is open from different places on your internal network . Of course , OS X does n't comes with nmap by default , so you would have to try that from a Linux machine or use something like <URL> or <URL> to install it . I hope this helps .
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
According to <URL> written by Tom Nelson : I would say keep at least 15 % of your startup drive free at all times ... so that some basic OS X maintenance scripts will have sufficient free drive space to run . This includes OS X 's built-in disk defragmentation system , memory swap space , and enough space to create cache and temp files when OS X starts up , while still leaving room for basic applications , such as email and web browsers , to use free space as needed .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
Try an app called <URL> , it breaks down your storage usage folder by folder .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
If you 're looking for something that shows more than GeekTool with iCalBuddy , then the following apps may help : <URL> ( currently a free app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) See more at <URL>
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
Instead of Uninstalling these apps , you could just hide them . Doing this in Terminal : Will hide the application from sight , but will still be there . Here is the link for the source : <URL>
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
The Apple provided Disk Utility ( and shell command ) will allow you full RAID control over internal and external drives . You do have to erase the drives to add the RAID capability , but then you can join those drives into RAID . That is the only potential drawback to implementing RAID storage on the Mac . Drive spanning , JBOD , striping and mirroring are all possible with Mac OS X software RAID . Lion brings the concept of physical and logical volumes to the OS , but RAID on Snow Leopard is also very fully functional . If you brake a mirrored RAID set - the drives are valid when connected to the same mac and portable to any other mac . You are not locked into a proprietary standard and do n't need any additional software for any of this functionality . and are free sync tools - very scriptable , powerful , and free .
Dealing with the same problem myself ( especially needing effective autosave for excel for mac , which is most definitely broken in Mavericks ) - I just started the " ForeverSave 2 ( version 2.1.2 ) " trial on my Mavericks-running 2011 15 " mbp and it seems to both force a cmd + s save of the excel document I 'm working on and also save a copy to its library . This does lead to some excess clutter but it has options to 1 ) keep the total number of backups for a certain file less than X amount ( you specify amount ) , or 2 ) to automatically delete backups older than X number of days . It does actually force a cmd + s , which is great - I tested several times by typing something , letting the document sit slightly longer than the ForeverSave auto-save time window , force-quitting excel or turning off my computer , and upon re-opening the file my new data was still there , without me having ever manually saved . It only does this when the document is the active window , however so if you type something and then go start working on another document , it will not auto-save that first one ( unless the autosave timer just happened to go off in the split second between you finishing typing and going to another window ) . Only really seems like a problem if you make the autosave window very long ( i.e. I could image if it was set to 3 hours I might work for two hours , navigate to another window , and then have a problem that quits excel , with no autosave ever happening ) - to compensate I just set the autosave window to 2 minutes , and am having Foreversave delete any backups that it has after they 're a week old , so it 's library stays small . Silly that we have to pay $ 20 for software to do something so simple , but at least it seems to work .
end question
start question
How to send the right-click event to a tab-chosen control from an application or service ?
If you simply want to select GUI elements with keyboard , use <URL> . It allows you to search all the visible GUI element and select it from your keyboard input . Another tool you can use to simulate mouse event ( such as right click ) is <URL> . It 's an app to create macro for all kind of events in Mac ( from simulating keystrokes , mouse position , and even manipulating clipboard history ) . You can create almost all kind of interaction with Keyboard Maestro . By combining those two apps above , you should be able to leave your mouse and trackpad . After all , you are a Keyboard Maestro .
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
Sadly , ( as of iOS 4 ) , this can not be done . The location field of an event does not recognise an address , no matter how perfectly you enter it . [ UPDATE ] In iOS 5 , the location field in any calendar event will ( if properly formatted ) hyperlink to the Maps app .
In Windows 7 running in bootcamp : To right-click using a trackpad : Place three fingers on the trackpad and click the trackpad button . Just make sure you install the Bootcamp drivers that are on the OS X Installation DVD
You can use the Keyboard shortcuts . Go to Settings • General • Keyboard • Shortcuts From there , you can add shortcuts , like for " On my way . "
In addition to the other answers posted here , I suggest looking at a few different online bookmarking sites : <URL> <URL> ( and yes ) Delicious.com Most of these services have add-ons or extensions to access the bookmarks . :) ( I really like diigo.com )
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
I 'm from the same boat ; the best native keyboard-only I 've found is CTRL-DOWN-Arrow ; ( you enter app expose ) DOWN-arrow ; ( if there are any minimized windows , this 'll put a cursor on one ) LEFT-arrow/RIGHT-arrow ( to select from multiple minimized windows ) or hold OPT if you want all of them restored . RETURN alternative step1 : getting into app expose before you 've alt-cmd ' ed to an app : with CMD still held down , ( the task switcher is visible ) tap DOWN , or UP , or 1 ( now in app expose ) The above shows only one app 's minimized windows at a time ; for selecting from any minimized window regardless of app , CTRL-F3 moves focus to the dock , and you can arrow left to get to the minimized list . if your CTRL-F3 instead shows you the app-expose , try FN-CTRL-F3 . ( In my settings/keyboard , I 've flagged " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " ) Some apps have specific alternatives ; I use Terminal 's CMD-window_number , which unminimizes and focuses that window .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
Yes , they can be used interchangeably . The two-finger tap is a shortcut employed by OS X for more convenience / accessibility , however , it has exactly the same function as the control-click .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
This is a compatibility issue between Apple and Microsoft . There 's not much you can do about that except using Outlook 2011 for Mac can help you out in this case . As it is specific Microsoft software for Mac , you do n't have all the limitations you have using the default ( native ) Mac Mail.app . SideNote : A similar thing between Apple and Microsoft is when you flag an e-mail , it will be flagged as Outlook 2003 , which is very pointless if your Exchange is 2007 or up .
So long as your USD99 annual membership fee for Mac Developer Program is current ( and you do n't break the Agreement or any NDA ) , that paid membership already covers the following typical software distribution costs : set up your App ID for distributing your app set up and download credentials needed to sign the app for distribution via the App Store . keeping your tax information and deducting the appropriate withholding on apps sold for selected countries ' App Store . review of your app hosting of your app ( at App Store ) etc. .
Try hyperswitch ( <URL> ) - you can switch between windows only from current desktop .
No ; iOS does not provide any options or control for wallpaper positioning - you set the file and it does what it does .
Do this : Remove the " Speak text " action . Add the " Run AppleScript " action . Clear all the default text in the action . Copy/paste this script in the action : If you want a specific voice , append after the command . Example :
Open in Chrome Service You can make a Service in 10.6 or 10.7 using Automator that will open a selected URL in Chrome . Here 's how : Open Automator When Automator asks you to Choose a type for your document window , select Service Change the " Service receives selected " drop-down to " URLs " Add a Run AppleScript action ( found under the Automator Library , or just search ) by dragging from the left pane to the right Copy the code below to the text field ( replacing all the existing text ) Save and give the service a name ( it will be added automatically to the services menu ) Code : This will open any selected URL in Safari or other application in Chrome , either in a new tab in the most recent window , or a new window if there is no open Chrome window . To access it , right-click and under the Services item at the bottom of the menu , you should see an item with the name you assigned . One important caveat : OS X seems to be a bit picky/buggy about passing link to this sort of service . It works fine if you have text selected as a URL , but it only seems to work on some links . If I discover a better method , I 'll update this post with it . You may also need to restart Safari for the service to appear .
Generally , yes , since most applications are installed through copying the application from a DMG file into your Applications folder . However , this is not always the case , since applications can also be installed through the use of OS X Installer or a 3rd party installer . As a rule of thumb , if an application was installed through an installer , copying the from the Applications folder wo n't be enough . If you wish to backup an application that came from an installer , you will usually require that installer . If you have a valid license for the software ( e.g. Photoshop ) you can redownload the installer from Adobe 's website and use that to install it . When you entered your key into the application , it will have created a hardware-linked key that ensures the software can not be copied to a new computer without re-entering the software key . The easiest way is just to use the installer itself to reinstall the software . In addition , do n't forget about the additional files that may be created when you run the application . For example , files in the Application Support folder . You can use an complete app remover such as <URL> to list the files that may be related to the app . In this case , there was a preference file in that holds DaisyDisk 's user preferences . Copying this file to a different computer in the same place should keep the preferences . On the other hand , cache files such as those in are not usually necessary to be backed-up/copied .
I 'm not on El Capitan yet . But if there is a menu bar entry in Safari to create a pinned tab , you can assign a custom keyboard shortcut . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard Select the Shortcuts Tab Select App Shortcuts at the bottom of the list Create a new shortcut : Application Safari The title is the exact name of the menu bar entry Choose a shortcut that you like <URL>
OSX is setup to have a window take focus , this usually requires a Window to show , this is being in the foreground . The application that this window belongs to is the process that receives and interprets keystrokes ( strictly <URL> ) ( after the system global ones are dealt with ) Thus when you quit an application the OS has to choose an Application to put in the foreground . I ca n't find the overall description in one document so this is based on development experience . If someone could find the correct overview this would help .
end question
start question
Will FileVault reduce the power of my hybrid SSD+HDD ?
FileVault 2 encrypts the filesystem at a block level . Despite the data being encrypted the cache in your disk should still be able to work out that particular blocks are being accessed more often and cache them in the SSD .
Once the initial encryption has finished you are very unlikely to notice any difference in day-to-day usage . Your iMac 's CPU also contains specific features that assist with encryption ( AES ) .
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
You do not need to disconnect your MacBook Pro 's battery . Your battery will stop charging once it is full . Apple 's modern batteries are much smarter than previous designs . To get the most out of your MacBook Pro 's battery , follow the <URL> : unplug and use your battery until empty about once a month , then charge back up to full . At the time of answering , Apple 's advice read : For proper maintenance of a lithium-based battery , it 's important to keep the electrons in it moving occasionally . Apple does not recommend leaving your portable plugged in all the time . An ideal use would be a commuter who uses her notebook on the train , then plugs it in at the office to charge . This keeps the battery juices flowing . If you need help following Apple 's advice , use <URL> ; it is free and will remind you when to deplete your battery .
The Retina MacBooks use a format of SSD that can be replaced , but Apple does not make it especially easy for simple replacement . Rather than the more familiar 2.5 " HD format you might be familar with , the Retina use a newer blade style , somewhat similar to memory modules . Your best bet it to look over the ifixit guides , to see what is involved : <URL> As far as I know , Apple offers repair and replace service for a Retina laptop , but I have not seen them offer ' upgrade ' service . You could always complain about issues , and ask them to replace it with a newer , and larger size , but they would only do that if the part was orginally offered as an option on the Retina . Good Luck !
I have read it somewhere before ( <URL> ) that on some heavy loads ( especially GPU loads ) , 2011 MacBook Pro charger may not supply enough charge . There are no official confirmations , though , as far as I know . Please check , however , that the " 0:09 " minutes are referred to the remaining time and not the " remaining time until fully charged " . I suppose it is the latter . I may also point out ( but only as a last thought ) that if you keep your Mac always under charge , the battery may stop charging at certain times to preserve lifetime .
You can bring your Apple Watch back to normal functioning mode by pressing and holding the side button , the same way that you do when you wish to power it on . This command will only work if you plugged the Watch in , or if there is sufficient battery juice available .
I had this setup for a while and yes , the hard drive in the primary disk bay would spin down when booted from the SSD . It was fairly easy to tell , because when accessing the drive there was a noticeable delay when first accessing the drive after leaving it idle for about 10 minutes . This was on an older machine ( 2009 MacBook Pro 15 " , running Mac OS X 10.7 ) .
Macports provides a <URL> to migration to a new OS . Basically you need to uninstall all the ports , install a new Macports and Xcode ( although only the command line tools are needed for most ports ) , then reinstall the ports . If you don ; t do this then you might well have issues which Macports community ca n't help you with . If you put your configurations in new files rather than directly edit files installed by macports these files will not be overwritten . If you directly edited the config files then you will need to copy them from a backup after the reinstall . Note on the upgrade . Xcode does not provide a gcc compiler for OSX 10.9 and Macports is now using the corresponding C++ standard library . This means that any C++ based port could well have problems if you just kept your old Macports and did not go through the migration . I suspect that other code is likely to carry on running but when you upgrade a port or add a new one things will get confused .
I 'd say there are basically three things that impact the file size of a GIF . The number of colors in the GIF -- The more colors there are in a GIF , the higher the file size . The dimensions of the GIF -- Tumblr requires the width to be less than 500px , so at least start there . I think around 450px is a great size . However , do n't forget you can use the crop feature to just highlight the action . The number of frames -- The number of frames you can use is highly dependent on the above two points . The three items above mirror <URL> and you can use the GifBrewery preferences to help reduce the colors by processing it lightly or using dithering algorithms :
Apple has n't really discussed specifically what Low Power Mode actually does . Its main underdocumented feature is that it underclocks the processor , reducing performance to increase battery life , but there 's a few other tweaks it makes to the system as noted underneath the switch . As shown in these screenshots , Low Power Mode reduces the performance by ~ 30 % . Source : <URL> Apple lists the following as features modified by Low Power Mode : Email fetch Hey Siri Background app refresh Automatic downloads Wi-Fi associations Some visual effects Source : <URL> More details are provided in the developer documentation ( <URL> ) : Reduce CPU and GPU performance Pause discretionary and background activities , including networking Reduce screen brightness Reduce the timeout for auto-locking the device Disable Mail fetch Disable motion effects Disable animated wallpapers Source : <URL> Apple encourages developers to take advantage of this feature by implementing a lower power state in their apps . This means that this feature may increase battery life through support in third-party apps . Your app should take additional steps to help the system save energy when Low Power Mode is active . For example , your app could reduce the use of animations , lower frame rates , stop location updates , disable syncs and backups , and so on .
The 85W MagSafe adapter should do the trick for you . It 's compatible with the original MagSafe design and provides enough power for all of the Intel Macs up to this point . Picking up a 45W or 60W would n't save any money and though they would both run all of the Intel Mac laptops they be insufficient for powering a larger ( 15 " / 17 " ) Mac back to life since they require 85W . Should Apple move completely away from the MagSafe design to the slimmer MagSafe 2 design you can add the adapter .
Encryption happens on-the-fly . If the data was written to the hard drive , then passed through an encryption algorithm that then deleted the written data and re-wrote it , encrypted , that would be hella inefficient , and would largely defeat the purpose . I think the answer to your question is no , but of course remember that if you 're going from a data set that 's not yet encrypted , then all of that data needs to be processed , so that initial process of reading , encrypting and re-writing data will have an effect .
You will need the recovery key to decrypt the volume if you lose your password or , in the unlikely event that the encryption key associated with the password becomes corrupt . If you elected not to allow Apple to store the recovery key , keep a copy ( or several ) in a safe place other than your computer . Recovery Keys can also be used by System Administrators to mount volumes for maintenance or recovery . ( The Admin does n't need access to an account password ) . It is possible to <URL> . Apple 's <URL> white paper provides more information about the inner-workings .
Overheating should n't be an issue . The SuperDrive probably runs hotter ( when it 's in use ) since it has moving parts An SSD would most likely improve performance ( especially if you use it as your boot drive and place for applications ) Do n't know about battery life , but I imagine if you you use this as your boot drive , and the stock hard disk as your " slave " , you might actually see an improvement ( again , fewer ' moving parts ' ) This will void your warranty , but if you 're careful you might be able to get in and out without leaving evidence of tampering . Consult iFixit 's guides for tips I ca n't imagine there would be a noticeable weight difference . Steve is dead , unless you 're talking about Steve Zahn . Steve Zahn does n't care what you do with your computer .
Well the problem never appeared after I replaced SSD , so probably the answer is yes .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
I made a similar modification to my 13 " mid-2009 MacBook Pro and used the <URL> . You do n't need to provide a SATA cable , rather the frame ( OptiBay or Data Doubler ) used to mount the hard drive in place of the optical drive will use the SATA cable formerly employed by the optical drive . As for tools , I believe you will only need a Phillips screwdriver ( size # 00 or # 0 , I ca n't recall ) . Unless they are required for the OptiBay , I do n't think you 'll need any Torx drivers . The installation instructions for the Data Doubler can be found <URL> and cover the tools required for all MBP models . One tip for doing this procedure - use a long roll of tape stuck to your desk to keep track of the screws you remove at every step . If you 're especially concerned about losing track of where things go , you can put the tape on a piece of paper and write down the location of each screw next to where you 've taped it . All the standard warnings about opening your computer apply here . In particular , be sure you have at least one backup of all your data .
No , Xcode 6 on the Mac App Store will replace the existing Xcode installation . Only the Xcode betas install separately ( by default ) and only downloading Xcode from developer.apple.com and doing the install manually ( by copying Xcode from the DMG to / Applications ) will prompt you to replace or keep both .
end question
start question
How to view Chrome browsing history on ipad ?
A new iPad version of Chrome has this feature where you can type chrome : / / history into the search field / address bar to retrieve history . Currently the iOS version of Google Chrome is 28.0.1500.16 so presumably older versions of the app do not have any way to get history , but newer versions do .
Ok , so I 've found it . It is not presented as Click to play any longer ( it used to be in previous versions of Chrome and is still presented like this in Chromium ) . If you want to turn this option on you 've got to : Open Settings ( you can do it by clicking ☰ and then Settings or by clicking ⌘ + , ) . Click Show advanced settings ... Enter the Content settings in the Privacy section . Enable Let me choose choose when to run plugin content in the Plugins section . <URL> It seems quite obvious now , but I 've been trying to find this for a few weeks by now , because it was called Click to play before .
Found the answer here : <URL> I must say I found this all very confusing . Apple devices normally work so seamlessly together . Why hide this functionality by a checkbox deep inside a preference pane ?
Open up the Terminal and enter the command : You will see an output listing at least one Logical Volume Group , with a Logical Volume Family and Logical Volume nested below . There is be a item in the Volume Family entry that will tell you if it 's converting to an encrypted volume or not , and for a progress indicator , look under the Logical Volume entry for and entries , to see how many GB have been converted so far . During encryption : Encryption completed : The actual Terminal output is nested and longer . Here , only the most important information is listed . Apparently decrypting an external disk is very slow ( or even paused ) if you use a laptop which is running on batteries . So always make sure to plug it into mains power when performing this operation .
I just had this problem on mail.app and just figured it out using the instructions on <URL> . The instructions on the linked page are for ical . I do n't have access to ical so I ca n't confirm that it works on ical . But it works well on calendar.app . So ... I 'm hoping it will work just the same for you . Here are the steps : Login to Outlook Web Access ( the web interface for your Exchange Server ) . Click on public folders ( for me , it was all they way in the bottom left ) . The , navigate to the public folder of your choice ( I needed a calendar ) . Right click on the public calendar and select copy from the context menu . Navigate back to your own mailbox ( I clicked " mail " in the lower left ) . Right click on your own calendar and click paste ( I added it to a new folder ) . Return to iCal and refresh ( not sure how you do that in iCal ) . Hope it works as well for you as it just did for me !
Hold Alt when clicking at the AirPort icon on the menu bar . It should say , where x is the type of connection . You can also launch Wireless Diagnostics from that menu to capture packets and graph signal and noise measurements .
Apps which are in the foreground are granted access to the keyboard automatically . Apps which are run by your user account but are not in the foreground require accessibility access to access the keyboard . The list of applications granted access to this is available in System Preferences → Security &amp; Privacy → Accessibility . Here you can add and remove applications to grant and deny access , however some applications may lose functionality . Apps which run as root are not restricted in this way . You will have been required to authorise this before this is permitted . You can check the current list of running root processes in Activity Monitor . Keep in mind there 's no keyboard history maintained -- the apps must be recording it live .
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
Open Finder , select Go/Go to Folder ... ( ⇧ ⌘ G ) , paste in : Delete the apps from there . ( Note that ~ means your user folder , not the regular Applications folder . ) Finally , empty the trash to remove from launchpad . If you use Canary or any other type of Chrome build : it will have its own additional folder in .
Since iOS 5 , you can do this straight from the Settings App . It 's located at .
I had the same problem and found a great article that helped me decrypt the keychain from my iOS 9 backup : <URL> . Here are the steps for El Capitan : Install pip : Install m2crypto ( see answer to <URL> ) First , install openssl and swig with Homebrew : Then install m2crypto using pip : Install some more Python packages : Download the <URL> Extract your backup : And finally , decrypt your keychain :
How about something simple in your crontab ? Which will , on a daily basis , append to the file drive_usage . log in your home directory with the date and time the job ran . Change @daily to @hourly or @weekly if you want different sampling rates . Sample output : If you want more information you might want to use something like fs_usage ( 1 ) which provides a truly astonishing amount of detail and must be run as root .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
There 's no exact equivalent that I 'm aware of ; I usually rubberband-select a region and then command-click the ones I do n't want . Mouse down at the top left of the area you want to select , drag to the bottom right of the area , release . A rubberband will be highlighted as you drag the mouse ; all icons within the rubberband will be selected . It 's also possible to chain these by holding Shift or Option for the second and successive selections , so you can add additional selections or deselect icons selected previously .
Plex Media Server offers " sync " functionality to devices if you have a Plex Pass subscription ( starts at $ 3.99 / month , less per month for longer subscription periods ) . You initiate the sync either from the Plex web app or device by selecting movie ( s ) to sync , and it then transcodes your selected media into a format appropriate for iPad . You then open the iOS app to download it directly to the device . See <URL> for a run-through . For adding torrents , the best solution I 've found is to use Dropbox . If you do n't already have a Dropbox account , <URL> . Download the <URL> onto your server . In the Mac menu bar , a new icon of an open box will appear . Tap on that , then tap on the folder icon to the left to open the Dropbox folder . Here , create a folder called " torrents " ( or whatever you like ) . In Transmission , go to Preferences > Transfers and set the Auto Add directory to the Dropbox directory you just created , which will be stored locally at / Users/yourusername/Dropbox / torrents / or whatever you called it . On the iPad , install the Dropbox client . Next time you want to add a torrent , act as if you 're downloading it to the iPad . Since you ca n't actually download files to the iPad , the screen will change to show the filename , and will have a " Open in Dropbox " link at the top-right . Tap on that , then select the torrents folder you created in Dropbox . Tap Save at the upper right . After a few seconds , the file will sync to Dropbox from the iPad , then from Dropbox to your server . Since Transmission is watching the directory where it will appear on your server , it will be picked up and automatically added . There 's a few steps involved in setting this workflow up , but once done , it 's maintenance-free .
Chrome and Firefox have n't been developed for iOS yet , but you could try Dolphin Browser . It 's very similar to Chrome , and you can download extensions for it . Opera Mini and Murcury Web Browser ( quite similar to Desktop Safari ) are another couple of nice alternatives to Mobile Safari , and Atomic Web Browser is slightly better than Safari , but does n't have many features . If you want to watch Flash videos on your iPad , try out Skyfire . It 's limited , but it does what it says . If you want an interface which looks like Chrome , you might like <URL> . Here 's a <URL> which may help . You could search for " browser " on the app store , but realize that most of the applications that you find will still be using the same rendering engine that Apple developed . It 's only the stuff around the rendering engine that will look different . There are some rumors that Firefox will eventually release an iOS version . Personally though , I prefer Dolphin as my favorite . :3 <URL> Gestures : create a personal symbol to access the websites you use the most Visit your favorite sites with one touch . Tabbed browsing Bookmarks Bar Full Screen Mode
Look in / var/log for and . contains the most current logs ; the other files are archives of successively older log files , made whenever each one reached a maximum size .
Zevlag is right . You 're not going to be able to do precisely what you were after ( true IMAP syncing of chat logs ) . But here 's a couple of things that you can : First , you could download your chat logs using this method : <URL> This will take quite a bit of time and I doubt you 'd want to do it over and over to keep your logs up-to-date . But it will allow you to have an easily searchable record of your chats on your local machine ( Spotlight ) . Second you could look into Google 's APIs for a way to get at your chats . Here 's one example of a script attempting this : <URL> This will be even more complicated and still wo n't get you what you 're after but if your a bit of a hacker you might be able to put something together with the API that would keep your local record up-to-date . Sorry there is n't a way to do just what you want . - Samuel
It would be nice if Skype ( Microsoft ) synched the message history from your iDevices to your Mac where it is easily accessible , but I suspect they do n't . In the meanwhile you can try a trial version of something like iExplorer ( <URL> ) which can access most/all files created on iDevices and try to locate your Skype message history .
end question
start question
Is there a way to receive a warning if memory is running low ?
You can acheive this with a combination of Growl and some shell scripting . Growlnotify is a command line tool that can send a message to growl : Wrapping some logic around this to check for CPU use or Memory use should be straightforward enough . I 'm not at a Mac right now so ca n't test with commands but something like the following should be possible Thew above is n't going to work , please do n't copy and paste it , but it 's something to go on . You can expand the logic further easily by checking every 2 minutes , and if it 's over 80 % then check every 30 seconds to see if it 's persistantly high and not just a spike , and if its still high after 3 checks then alert , otherwise do n't etc. .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
If you absolutely have to use a Mac to open the xdi file , and you have Parallels or some other virtual environment that can run Windows , you can install WinArchiver and open the file that way . As far as I know there is no utility for Mac that can open xdi files because they are created using WinArchiver which is a Windows only app .
Depending on how your Mac Mini is connected to the internet ( wifi , ethernet , firewall , age of the machine , NAT , ... ) it should be possible to do it using <URL> . You could , for example , use a GUI software like <URL> .
Yes , start with <URL> which easily <URL> and then move on to <URL> once you have a feeling for what you want to open up past one app at a time as your two year old gets more able to use more than just one game at a time . .
You can prevent Siri from cutting you off in the command mode by holding down the Home button until you 're done speaking . Normally you activate Siri in the command mode by holding the Home button until Siri responds , then releasing the button and talking . In that mode she 'll cut you off pretty quickly . Continuing to hold the Home button bypasses that limitation .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
One quick way is on <URL> . Enter " Kairosoft " in the search box . Click on any app title link . Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click on the " Other Apps By This Developer " link . This will bring up a custom page for that developer listing all of their app titles and update info . A custom RSS feed is also generated in the upper-right corner of the screen . This feed will update for any new app releases .
If explicit you should have a little E next to the title
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
As far as I know there is no way to email a link to something you have got to inside a native iOS app , in your case , a set of instructions . I believe however that you can email a set of instructions as a link from the google maps website , which you can access in safari . Hope this helps in some form .
You ca n't mount a http/https server as a filesystem since it wo n't provide a directory table for you . ( I left a comment on why httpfs is n't what you need ) The best way to do the task is to make a list of the URLs you need to check and use a shell script ( run from Automator for convenience perhaps ? ) You will need to USE curl or wget which will do the http downloading for you ( they both provide post and http basic auth support for sending login info , however you probably need to install them on Mac Os X , off the top of my head I 've forgotten . ) You can get fancy and use diff to check automatically for changes in the files , so that you only need to get personally involved with the process when you really have to . Need more info , I 'll happily expand on this . References : <URL> and <URL> <URL>
<URL> can do this , but its development has been a bit stale ( I do n't know if it still works ) . Window switching is fast and fun With Witch installed , a pop-up panel shows all open windows -- even windows in other Spaces , if you 're running 10.6 . From the panel , simply select the window you 'd like to activate . There is no step two ! <URL>
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
I do not have the Yosemite but on <URL> : The trick is to assign a second Space to the desktop . You do that by pressing the Mission Control button on your Mac keyboard ( F3 ) or whatever you 've assigned in System Preferences > Mission Control , and moving the mouse to the upper right of the display until you see a Plus ( + ) icon . Click it to create a new Space . After you 've created a second Space , your dock option will change . Now you 'll see this : Now you can assign the app to the Desktop of your choice , typically either the desktop on display # 1 or display # 2 .
Few ways found after searching - 1 . Mac Tracker Mactracker provides detailed information on every Apple Macintosh computer ever made , including items such as processor speed , memory , optical drives , graphic cards , supported OS versions , and expansion options . Also included is information on Apple mice , keyboards , displays , printers , scanners , speakers , cameras , iPod , Apple TV , iPhone , iPad , Wi-Fi products , Newton , iOS , Mac OS , and OS X versions . <URL> 2 . Coconut Battery 2.8 It has this nice feature which shows the age of your mac inside the App - Calculates the age of your Mac using the coded production date in the serial number of your Mac . <URL>
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
end question
start question
How do I safely eject or unplug an iPad , iPhone , or iPod when iTunes is not running ?
In the Finder in Mac OS X , press Command-Shift-G to Go to folder . Type . This will take you to the " Volumes " folder . If your iDevice is mounted as a drive , it will appear here . You can select it and press Command-E to eject it . If it does not appear here , it is not mounted as a drive , and you can simply unplug it . Note that it may or may not appear on your Desktop or in a Finder sidebar depending on your settings , but it should always appear in the folder . On Windows , in the system tray , there is an icon you can click to " Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media . " Right-click the icon , find the name of your iOS device , and click it to eject it . If it does not appear on this list , it is not mounted as a drive and you can simply unplug it .
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
To erase everything and restore the iPhone to the factory state , go into Settings , then General , then Reset . Press " Erase All Content and Settings " . If you have a passcode , you will be prompted to enter it . Select " Erase iPhone " and the wipe will begin . Be sure to have your iPhone connected to a power source as the erase takes a long time . When it 's complete , the iPhone will have no SMS , calendar , phone logs , contacts , etc. .
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
There are applications that let you control how much of each color component in the display generated by your machine gets to the monitor . An example of this is <URL> . These are useful for adjusting your monitor for night time viewing , and other special cases . Unless you have something like this running on BOTH the machines , it 's likely that the problem is either with the monitor itself , or with the cable . Are you connecting via VGA or DVI ? A problem with the cable would n't manifest like that on DVI , but could on VGA , where individual pins literally correspond to component colors . If on VGA , try another cable and see if that helps . If that does n't work , it 's most likely that the monitor is broken .
As of iOS 5 , this problem is even simpler . Many views will scroll overflowing information , but you can also simply tap and hold on many sources of text in order to view them in a significantly smaller font size in a back pop-up tooltip , which greatly expands the amount of text that can be fit in the width of the iPhone 's screen size . Note that my previous answer still applies ( below ) , but this tooltip is usually quite a bit faster and much more direct . For all iOS versions before iOS 5 : My answer on the <URL> Question covers this as well . You can use Cover Flow view ( rotate your device to Landscape while in the iPod/Music app after selecting a song ) in order to greatly increase the amount of room used to display song information . Your title is particularly large , I do n't know what the landscape/Cover Flow view limit is . I do n't have any songs that exceed it yet :) .
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
The new model ( if one comes out ; it 's not necessarily certain that one will ) will be better . Will it be 45 $ better ? I do n't know , and that 's something only you can decide . If you do n't need the extra disk space , the 8 GB model should be sufficient ( despite what @comradsky 's answer says , the internals of the 4th-gen touches are n't any different between the size models except the internal storage space . All in all , I have to say the same thing I always say when it comes to buying Apple products : if you need it , buy it . If you wait , there 's always the possibility that they wo n't release a new model when you thought they would , so you buy the old model , and then they release the new model a month after you thought they would . Also : consider looking at the <URL> on Apple 's website . There are ( from time to time ) fairly good deals on current - or previous-gen items .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
You can use Boolean operators : Use Boolean searches : Use Boolean operators such as AND , OR , and NOT . For example , to search for messages that contain " yosemite " and " yellowstone " but not " teton , " type " yosemite AND yellowstone NOT teton " or " yosemite AND yellowstone - teton . " You must type Boolean operators in uppercase . Souce : <URL>
There is one way that I personally know of , and that is using Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> ( $ 29 USD ) . How to send between two iOS devices is outlined in this <URL> ( from 2012 , but the principle is the same ) . Brief version of the article : You first install Airfoil on your computer , and make it act as an Airplay server . From the iOS device playing the audio source , you then use the normal iOS AirPlay controls to pass audio to your computer . You then download Airfoil Satellite from the App store to your second iOS device , and use that application to receive audio from your computer . You just need to assign the Satellite app as a " client " and it will stream audio as usual . If you are thinking of streaming audio from video sources via this method , then audio will obviously not be synced in real-time with video . I have however used it for playing video on my iPad and then " taking the audio with with me " on my iPhone . The example would be if I 'm watching a TV programme on iPad , and I want to go to the bathroom and continue listening ...
PUSH ! The old way was to insert the tool at an angle and kind of push sideways and pull out at the same time , using leverage , and the tray would hang onto and come out with the tool , but with the new iPad ( 2012 ) , simply insert the SIM eject tool straight into the tiny hole ( straight being the way it enters with the least resistance , i.e. perpendicular to the case where the hole is ) , and then push . The tray will eject . I 'd have posted a link to authoritative information , but I just had this exact problem myself ( UPS guy arrived an hour ago ! ) and so I 'm speaking from first-hand experience :-) I tried what I thought was obvious once I realized the hole was no longer part of the SIM card tray assembly ( see photos below ) , so angling and pulling would do nothing like it did on the 2010 model 's tray ( i.e. when the hole was part of the tray ) . SIM card tray outer view from my original iPad ( 2010 ) : Notice the hole was part of the tray . SIM card tray outer view from my new iPad ( 2012 ) : Notice the hole is separate from the tray . Insert SIM tool , and push . I 'm adding a comment . Once you notice the Sim Tray lifting just a fraction you are half way there - now push harder and it pops right out . Good luck .
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
At the moment , you have to use iTunes to gift an application for iPad . If the application is universal , then you can gift the app with your iPhone .
A SuperDuper clone will be easy and will move your exact setup to the SSD . Put the new SSD in an external USB drive , format the SSD in Disk Utility , and clone the boot drive onto it . You do n't need to purchase SuperDuper as the Erase then Copy option works in the unregistered version . If your current boot drive data takes up more space than the SSD can hold then you need to delete files to slim it down or use a custom script in SuperDuper to exclude what you do n't want transferred . After the clone is successful boot the computer with option held down and make sure you can boot from it . If that works shut it down and swap the drives .
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
end question
start question
Would Apple still take its 30 % cut if I collect donations for charities in an app I develop ?
I have here some App Store Review Guidelines , but you ca n't use in-app for donations . There are some points in the Apple In-App Purchase Policy covering some of your questions : 21 . Charities and contributions 21.1 Apps that include the ability to make donations to recognized charitable organizations must be free 21.2 The collection of donations must be done via a web site in Safari or an SMS Source : <URL> ( late 2013 )
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
You ca n't do this in the OS X Mail client . Mail.app will download all your emails available on the server . The workaround is to make the change on the server . You mention that you have Gmail , therefore you can go to Gmail 's IMAP settings and restrict the amount of emails available ( for example , the most recent 1000 ) . Also , you can exclude labels from being visible to IMAP , therefore Mail wo n't download the contents .
With the Apple TV connected to your development machine via USB . Steps In XCode from the menu Window - > Devices Select the Apple TV on the left representing your device . On the device , configure the screen the way you want to capture it . Click the Take Screenshot button . It will save the screenshot to your desktop of your development Mac For reference : <URL>
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
It all depends on how the app developers chose to implement the software . Take Dropbox as an example . It 's pretty popular and let 's you <URL> at once : In fact , I would also expect them to eventually make it automatically upload all your photos as part of their <URL> feature they are rolling out . For facebook on the other hand , you <URL> need to use a 3rd party application such as <URL> or <URL> , until Facebook change their application to allow this feature .
One place to look might be at <URL> . Update : iUsers for iPad now makes this possible . Check out the <URL> .
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
Put your finger on the app and hold there . The app will start wobbling and have a cross in a circle at the top left . Then drag it to where you want . If you hit the cross it will delete the app .
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
Simple answer is it 'll bring the window to the front . Apple + H hides the window however , so that might be a bit more useful to you .
I 've found I can use <URL> to make copies of preferences files , etc. . The ( somewhat tedious ) click-driven process is as follows : Start iExplorer , navigate to device , Apps . Locate the app to back up data for . ( This can be tricky , as not all apps are named internally similarly to their friendly public name . ) Browse the app contents . Generally , game progress is stored in Library/Preferences . Drag the appropriate files to a local disk for safekeeping . Delete the app . When the app is reinstalled later , drag the files back in their previous place and restart the app . iExplorer also has a mode for automatically mounting one of its folders as a <URL> volume when an iOS device is connected ; this allows me to connect my device and then use the command line to more efficiently back up and restore documents and preferences .
It should keep performing the refresh but it all depends on how the developer coded the app . As always , there 's proper and improper ways to handle a background refresh and the onus is on the developer to ensure they 're using the appropriate techniques and API . The app should show the most-recent info it has immediately upon opening ( assuming , of course , that it was developed with that capability ) . The refresh that was ongoing will continue . Ideally , once the app has been loaded and is ready to interface with the user , it should refresh itself with the latest available data . If the developer created the app this way , the user might see old data immediately upon opening the app but then the data will change within a few seconds as the new data is presented .
Apple Music offline songs are stored in this directory : A normal Song with a duration between 3:45 min and 5:02 min is about 7MB to 11MB large . rule of thumb is to calculate 10MB per Song and you are on the safe side . For Example a Maroon 5 song :
No - the IPA format does not make source code inclusion mandatory , so there 's no general way to do what you ask . As alluring as the idea is , just because something is possible on Android ( What you 're talking about is not in the sense you want it ) , does n't mean it will be possible on iOS . Now , if the developer decides to embed the source code into the IPA - you will be able to read it depending on the method of packaging it since the IPA contents are well documented by Apple on the developer site and many utilities exist to decode the application bundles .
You can do this from the dock . Switch to the space you want to pin your app to , then access the options menu from its dock icon :
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
end question
start question
iTunes column for file location ?
Yes , there is no column for that . And most files are in the iTunes library itself - as it copies them by default .
The set of available columns appears to be fixed , and there is no language column . But the way to change the set of displayed columns is by contextual menu ( right-click ) on the column headers . ( At least in 12.1 -- Apple seems to take pleasure in making sure we ca n't ever get accustomed to any particular UI for iTunes . ) There is a " category " column which I will use . Not ideal , but better than usurping BPM or grouping . Update : Changed my mind . I can put lang : es ; in Grouping and search for that in a " smart playlist . " That still allows me to put other things in Grouping .
My solution is to just use a different QuickLook generator . My generator of choice is <URL> . Antialiasing works perfectly well with it and it 'll even highlight source code files -- which is its main purpose . There is one bug , however , that if you are dealing with any directories or files containing a ' ( single quote ) , there will be no QuickLook available for it due to the way the generator sends the path to the highlighter program . Another downside is that the filename will not show in the QuickLook window . Instead , it will just say " Source file " . It also will not work on textClipping files .
On windows you ca n't redirect only these two folders ( on OS X and Linux you can ) - BUT you can move the whole " iTunes Media " folder to D : then all updates will go there . In iTunes " Edit > Preferences ... - > Advanced Section " you can change the location of the media folder - the new folder on D : does n't need to have the name " iTunes Media " , it just need to have the same structure as it had on C : .
You can save the whole iTunes folder ( it should be at . . / Music/iTunes directory ) and just put it back after you reinstall iTunes on your new Windows system ( new iTunes installation will put it 's new " blank " folder in / Music , just replace with your backup copy ) . By doing so iDevices will recognise your library as the one they had synced with before and will continue to sync with it like nothing happened , hence keeping all the saves on the devices .
Command-Return Hold the Command key and tap the Return key This will bring you to a Finder window , where the file/app is selected within the enclosing folder .
Maybe in your Home folder ? It 's the default folder the terminal points to . Try to open it through the Go menu in the finder .
While TextMate does n't have built-in FTP or SSH capabilities there are a few bundles for it that have tried to remedy this shortcoming . In particular the <URL> aims to provide what you seek : a way to define a " project " that can be synchronized ( both up and down ) with a remote file system . The bundle is a touch dangerous if you 're using FTP as it requires your password be left in plaintext in the file that you leave on disk at the root of your project folder to tell the plugin how to connect to your remote file system . The other option , if you 're not set on TextMate and just want something like TextMate , is to take a look at <URL> . I 'll be honest , I was a die hard TextMate guy , but in the last six weeks Sublime Text 2 has won me over . The active development from the company on the product , the very active bundle community , and it 's incredible speed when it comes to working on large files have really taken me in . There 's an <URL> for ST2 that 's a cut above the plugin for TM I mentioned above . It leverages keychain for password storage and does n't require you keep your passwords in plaintext on disk for it to work . It also lets you set up mappings for remote < - > local connections directly from the editor UI .
Per the <URL> If a credit card or your PayPal account is being used for a transaction , Apple may obtain preapproval for an amount up to the amount of the order . Billing occurs at the time of or shortly after your transaction . If you are using 1-Click purchasing or your PayPal account , your order may be authorized and billed in increments during one purchasing session , so it may appear as multiple orders on your statement . If an iTunes Card , iTunes Store Gift Certificate , or Allowance Account is used for a transaction , the amount is deducted at the time of your transaction . When making purchases , content credits are used first , followed by Gift Certificate , iTunes Card , or Allowance Account credits ; your credit card or PayPal account is then charged for any remaining balance .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
Yes , it 's very simple . Select the photo you want to copy the location data from and hit CMD+C to copy Right click the photo you wish to paste the location Select ' Paste Location ' from the contextual menu . Also you can check out <URL> for a pictorial guide .
Select the List tab : Click on the disclosure arrow to expand the subscription ( if it 's not already expanded ) : Click on the download button at the top of the list : Click OK to start downloading all episodes :
I could n't find any way of modifying the path , but you can create a folder on your HDD and then symlink it to : Open Applications > Utilities > Terminal . Now you will have to type several commands . Press return after every command for it to execute . When asked , type your password . The snapshots folder has complex permissions . The simplest way to preserve them is to copy the existing folder to the new location on your HDD : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) options are : : archive mode ( recursive ; copy <URL> as symlinks ; preserve permissions , times , owner , group , device files , sockets and fifos ) : output result in human-readable format : verbose , that is , show what the command is doing : preserve <URL> : copy extended attributes like resource forks and ACLs Disable local snapshots ( this will delete and its contents ) : Create symlink : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) Enable local snapshots : Create a local snapshot : If you see a new snapshot dated " now " : you 're done ! If something went wrong or is not working as expected , revert to the original configuration : Disable local snapshots : This will delete the symlink . Should that not be the case , delete it with : Enable local snapshots : Delete alternative snapshot folder on your HDD : ( is a dangerous command that wo n't ask for confirmation before deleting the folder . Make sure the path is correct ! )
There 's a longstanding request for it at <URL> And an early implementation is at <URL> To install , place from that site into and wait a few minutes for QuickLook to detect the new generator .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
There does n't appear to be any file-type limitation . WebDAV file sharing is enabled in the new Server.app under the File Sharing Service . Click the share you want , and then check " Share with iOS Devices ( WebDAV ) . " There is n't anything specific about file types , and Server.app seems to treat WebDAV as just another file-sharing protocol .
The location services are only used when specifically required to do so . You should see a small compass symbol in the menu bar when the services are being used . You can see what apps have made use of the service recently by checking in the settings app . For Find My iPhone , what happens is that the device maintains a connection much like being logged into a push mail account to the iCloud services . This allows the iCloud service to communicate with the phone , and when you log into iCloud and request a location for the device in question , it is able to send a message to the device over this IP data connection , and request that it turn on the location based services , locate the device and report back the findings , as well as tell it to display a message , play a sound etc etc. . So you are quite free to leave it turned on all the time and it will only use it when you need it . You can test this by setting yourself a reminder with a geofenced alert - if I am at work and I set an alert for when I get home to feed the cat , the icon will display constantly as it needs to know exactly when I arrive at a location , and the services and as such battery drain associated with it will also be used during that time . Clear the reminder , and it will turn off .
Use <URL> it 'll sync pictures automatically between Mac and iPhone ( it does also work with iPad , Apple-tv 4 and iPod Touch 5/6 ) with iOS 8.1 or newer .
Typing in Terminal will open the current working directory in a Finder window .
There are infinite combinations since you can add your own custom tags , therefore you can have as many tags as you wish and therefore as many tag combinations as you wish . Organising your files with tags is down to personal preference , but personally I use custom tags for projects and custom-named tags with colour for important/completed/etc . My current main tag list is as follows : I usually combine these with the project - or context-specific tag if it is a single file or package , or use the project/context tag on the folder and these general tags on the files themselves .
end question
start question
What 's the shortcut for Show/Hide Playlist in VLC ?
Window Menu > Playlist ... Opt ⌥ Cmd ⌘ P
This is not possible at all right now . Like you said , you can back out and go in again to dismiss keyboard . Other option is to tap the ' edit ' button on top right . That will dismiss keyboard but it will go in edit mode . When you cancel out of edit mode keyboard will come back . Apple should do something to easily bring up and dismiss keyboard ... Update : With iOS 5 , you can swipe messages down all the way pushing the keyboard downwards . Initially I thought , " why not just swipe down the keyboard itself to dismiss ? " But now it makes sense because you start scrolling down to see previous messages and keyboard naturally goes away when you do that .
iOS device boot times ( timed using a second hand ) : Feel free to edit this answer and add your own times .
I believe this is a bug with the software , and therefore might not be easy to reproduce . If it was common and easy to reproduce , I would guess that Apple would have patched it up by now . However , it may be related to a similar problem that was prevalent in earlier OSs ... There was originally a bigger problem in earlier versions of the OS when there was a lower limit to the amount of apps you could install . Once you installed too many , they would disappear . Since then , Apple added folders and more home screens making it much harder to reach the limit now . On one of the earlier OSs ( I believe it was iOS 2 . something ) , you could repeat this by moving apps to the <URL> . Basically , you would fill up the 9th screen ( the last one available at the time ) , and then begin pushing apps to the 10th screen . Once you were done editing , they would no longer be available . I believe this is a bug with the software , and therefore might not be easy to reproduce .
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
I was very surprised to open Control Center on iOS 9 and not see a battery icon ! Apple manages to fill other things in very nicely and that would have been very logical ( from my view ) . Unfortunately , as of iOS 9.0 , there is no simplified way to toggle Low Power Mode . As you discovered the only way to enable it is to open the Settings.app and then opening Batteries . If you 'd find it faster , you can now search the Settings app by pulling down past the " top " of the list in the app . In addition , when your phone hits 20 % battery , it will alert you and offer to enable the feature .
Right click on finder left panel choose " open sidebar preferences " go to advance tab uncheck the " show all file extension "
<URL> are universal . So , once you have the IEEE standard used , you should be able to resolder a new connector with no problem . In this case , the USB connector used on the <URL> is a USB v1 .1 connector . <URL> I have included the pinouts for USB 1.1 / 2.0 below for reference . <URL> Short of that , I am sure you could use the <URL> on a multi-meter on a USB cable to figure out which pin goes where
You can effectively turn off push notifications for a particular email account ... sort of . Go to the Settings app , and hit " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Go to " Fetch New Data " , then scroll down and go to " Advanced " . For the email account whose little red badges you do n't want , change the setting to " Manual " instead of " Push " . This will prevent new messages from pushing a notification icon to the home screen . However , when you open the Mail app to check your other email , the app will sync the " Manual " account with the server and you 'll get a badge if there are unread messages there . So , like bmike mentioned , the real way to get rid of those badges is to get closer to inbox zero .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
<URL> ( Free ) A great free FTP client . This is my go-to application . Anytime I need FTP access , I use Cyberduck . It 's not quite as lightweight as Fugu , but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu . I also really like the Growl integration with Cyberduck . <URL> ( Free ) Awesome little FTP client . As I noted above , this is a lightweight FTP client . It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing . I do like the dual panel navigation . EDIT : I forgot to add these . <URL> ( Free ) I have n't actually used Filezilla extensively , but from what I 've seen of it , I really like it . I downloaded it and played with it for a bit and I really like the tabbed connections . I also like the ability to jump to a path easily . <URL> ( Free , $ 29 Upgrade ) A free FTP/FTP-SSL client . I do n't usually use RBrowser because a $ 29 upgrade is necessary to unlock other protocols ( Local , FTP/SSL/TLS , SFTP-SSH ) . I do like the Site Manager . It 's a handy little thing to have . I searched and came up with some other free FTP clients : <URL> ( Free ) - Firefox extension The one downside I see is that this is for Firefox . The website does n't make it clear how it works with Firefox , so I assume it is an extension . <URL> ( Free ) This one relies on <URL> Since I do n't know anything about MacFUSE , I do n't know if this is good or bad . <URL> ( $ 34 ) By Panic I have never used Transmit before , but I have used Coda and I definitely would recommend anything from Panic . The only reason I have n't used this because of the $ 34 price tag . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , just found it when searching . <URL> ( $ 24 per user ) An amazing program with a long , long , long mac heritage . It 's way up there with Transmit by Panic and Interarchy as a file transfer program loved by long time Mac power users . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , but looks good from the screenshots . I really like the fact that it looks like Finder . I may have to give this one a try . <URL> ( Free ) Just searching around and found yet another one ... It looks pretty nice , except it 's no longer supported . However , you can still download it .
Sit , my children , and let me tell you of the world and its tricks ... Scrolling You can basically always scroll inactive window content . I ca n't even think of a case where this is n't true . ( This also means that scroll-to-navigate works in Lion . ) Dragging In many cases , you can drag content from inactive windows/apps without focusing the app . For example , you can drag a file from Finder or a message from Mail . Clicking When you click a button that 's on a window , it usually " <URL> events " -- meaning your mouse-down will both focus the window and act as a mouse-down event on the button . Then when you let go , the button will carry out its duty . ( Also note : in the case of the close/minimize/zoom widgets , you can actually click them without focusing the window . ) ( Second aside : in toolbars , it 's not uncommon to disable some buttons while they 're inactive , so you do n't accidentally click them -- take Mail 's delete button , for instance . However , this functionality is slightly broken in Lion , because if you start clicking ( so the window focuses ) and then drag , you can actually still activate the button . ) However , this mostly only works for buttons . As you 've noticed , when you try to click a link ( or select text , or another similar action ) , you have to focus the window first by clicking , and only then can you interact with the content . The Great Workaround ( or the rule of thumb , as you say ; hehe ) To get to the point : In most cases , when you hold down ⌘ Command , you can interact with inactive window content . You can hold down ⌘ and select ( and even drag ) text in the background , drag things around ( including scrollbars ! ) , click buttons , and more , without activating the window . " But wait ! " I hear you say . " Holding down ⌘ opens links in a new tab ! " Ay , there 's the rub : When you hold down ⌘ and click a link in Safari or Chrome , it will work without activating the window ... but the link will open in a new tab . And to my knowledge there 's no Great Workaround for that , unless you want to disable ⌘ - clicking in your browser . There you have the facts -- make the workflow you will of them ! An update , quoting some content from Apple 's <URL> ( this is just for reference , not to prove a point ) : Avoid providing click-through for an item or action whose result might be dangerous or undesirable . Specifically , avoid enabling click-through for an item that : Performs a potentially harmful action that users ca n't cancel ( for example , the Delete button in Mail ) Performs an action that is difficult or impossible to cancel ( such as the Send button in Mail ) Dismisses a dialog without telling the user what action was taken ( for example , the Save button in a Save dialog that overwrites an existing file and automatically dismisses the dialog ) Removes the user from the current context ( for example , selecting a new item in a Finder column that changes the target of the Finder window ) Clicking in any one of these situations should cause the window that contains the item to be brought forward , but no other action to be taken . In general , it 's safe to provide click-through for an item that asks the user for confirmation before executing , even if the command ultimately results in destruction of data . For example , you can provide click-through for a delete button if you also make sure to give users the opportunity to cancel or confirm the action before it proceeds . Think twice before supporting click-through for items that do n't provide confirmation feedback . Specifically , consider how dangerous the action might be , and determine how difficult it will be for the user to undo the action after it 's performed . For example , the Mail Delete button does not provide click-through because it deletes a message without asking for confirmation , which is a potentially harmful action that can be difficult to undo . On the other hand , click-through for the New button in Mail is fine because its resulting action is not harmful and is easy to undo . Ensure that items that do not support click-through appear disabled when their window is inactive . The disabled appearance helps users understand that these controls are unavailable . For example , the delete and mark as junk buttons in the inactive Mail window shown below do not support click-through .
I use ctrl + & #x 2325 ; + space . It 's typeable via left hand , does n't collide with the search window shortcut ( as & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2318 ; + space does ) and I have n't found any other overlap yet .
You need to switch to list view to reorder songs in a playlist . To switch to list view click the list view button in the upper left hand side of the top of the iTunes windows : Once you 've switch to list view you need to make sure your items are sorted by track number ( click the top of the the first column ) . Then you can drag tracks around in the playlist to reorder them . For example , I switch Planet Earth and The Valley in the playlist shown above by clicking on Planet Earth and dragging it up above The Valley and then releasing my mouse button : Edit : I just tried this in iTunes on Windows and I think I see where you 're getting the from . It 's actually okay -- just keep dragging . Apparently the is the cursor icon Apple chose for a grab action on song ( or a list of songs ) . I have no way to take a screen shot of what 's happening , but I can definitely reorder songs in Windows by clicking and dragging when in list view . Same as on OS X.
I found the answer in this <URL> post Create the AppleScript : Save in / Users/YourUserName/Documents / Microsoft User Data/Word Script Menu Items as Paste unformatted \ mosV.scpt ( the backslashed bit at the end of the filename provides the shortcut ) . Restart Word and you can now paste without importing extraneous styles with Apple-Alt-Shift-V .
You should be able to use Media Kind is not Podcast to deselect podcasts : Some podcasts also have their Genre set to Podcast .
<URL> is the app you are looking for . It has activation/deactivation , web preview mode , glyph overviews , collections etc. .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
You can manually set the time it takes for the dock to appear . Unlike the tip posted by Marius Butuc , this command does not remove the animation of the Dock when it appears . First , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Then open the Terminal and type : is the time it takes for the Dock to appear in seconds . You can choose floats and integers e.g. , , ... causes the Dock to restart . Restore the default behavior using ... According to <URL> this trick was found by reverse engineering from the developer Christian Baumgart of <URL> . This command only works in OS X 10.7 or newer .
end question
start question
How to save chat logs in Messages for Mountain Lion ?
In Preferences , select Messages and check " Save history when conversations are closed . " Now when you quit Messages , it will create a collection of chat transcripts . You can easily access these in your Library folder . From Finder , select Go > Go to Folder and type : . If you are on Mavericks or Yosemite , the location is . This will take you directly to the appropriate folder .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
See screenshot . Change the radio button for to . To access this screen , go to .
Crash logs are safe to post in public . There is no identifying information about you in them . All of the random looking text you see are addresses of the various methods that get symbolicated by Xcode into method names . This lets the developers see the exact line of code that caused the problem . Also know , it is harder to symbolicate crash logs that have been copied and pasted . It would be more helpful for the developers to get your crash logs in the original . crash file . It looks like this is no longer the case , I had no problem copy and pasting a crash log and symbolicating using the latest Xcode .
This would make scrolling up ( or dragging up with two fingers ) over an icon show app Exposé :
I believe there are applications that can extract the voice messages from your phone but they cost money and required the phone be plugged in to the computer . The simplest way is to connect your phone to your computer with a 3.5 mm audio cable . Use a simple audio recording app , such as <URL> , click record and play the voice message .
Yes , the App store downloads an installer for Mountain Lion and stores it in the usual spot - / Applications . You should only need a network connection after installing to get updates , etc. . and not to run the installer outright . Be aware that the installation process deletes the installer once you are done installing the OS , so you might make a backup copy of the Install OS X Mountain Lion program before you run it .
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
What you like to do ... there is a working SSH / SSL already on your Mac . If you like to build stunnel you need Xcode with the CLI tools ... and some time . I haven ´ t tried it but a quick look in the build instructions looks as if there are no big problems . As promised , here are the steps to build stunnel from source . I used a Lion machine but it is the same on a Mountain Lion machine . There is no need for Fink , MacPorts or Homebrew ... brings more troubles then it helps . Go to <URL> and download stunnel-5.23.tar.gz and stunnel-5.23.tar.gz . sha256 . Open a terminal Utilities = > Terminal > . Terminal is case sensitive , before you do something think twice before you press return - there is no undo or redo in terminal . Each line is one line in terminal and needs to press return at the end of the line . Compare the output of the last 2 lines - if it matches all is fine , if not you had a security problem during download . The configure script uses autoconf , so put your fingers away from other options because if all is there and supported it will build a fine 64 bit app for you . make check is optionally . sudo make install requires your admin password . During this step you had to input some basic informations ( self explaining ) . The &amp; &amp; is used to run one command after each other ONLY if the last was successful . After all is done your stunned app was installed in / usr/local/bin . To run it , open terminal and type or ( see the docs for the difference ) and press return . For the config file type in terminal . For the documentation of pico use in terminal . If I had some mistypes of filenames or anything else here use in terminal the following command to list a directory For the rest , have fun with stunned and the documentation of it !
Of course . In adding features , the behavior of previous features changes , not always for the better . If you find features that were present in Lion but missing in Mountain Lion , please edit this answer to add your contributions to this list . Mountain Lion drops support for some models of Macs supported by Lion . Clicking the top right corner no longer triggers Spotlight ( Spotlight 's menubar icon is still present , adjacent to the new Notification Center icon ) . The battery indicator in the menubar will <URL> . <URL> is included , but that app alone no longer provides X11 functionality . When the user first runs X11.app -- or an app that requires X11 -- a <URL> guides the user to Apple 's article <URL> about XQuartz , which provides the functionality . Mail.app and Safari.app drop support for RSS Feeds .
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
From <URL> : Apple supplies their own version of Java . Use the Software Update feature ( available on the Apple menu ) to check that you have the most up-to-date version of Java for your Mac . I seriously recommend not to use any other way , but OS X Software Update .
Apple 's tools for accessing the Spotlight index ( Spotlight itself and the command ) do n't offer any regex options , nor do I know of any 3rd party tools that offer that ( I 'm not actually sure Apple has APIs that would make that possible ) . However the command does offer a much more powerful interface than the GUI Spotlight search . It offers proper binary operators and finer grained control over what metadata you search . Check out <URL> for some good information , as well as the <URL> .
First of all , make sure you have added your systems knows about your Apple ID ( go to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > Your User - > Apple ID ) . Then launch Chess ; obviously you 'll need to have an internet connection . After a short wait ( a second or two in my case , might depend on your internet connection ) , a badge like the following should appear in the Chess window : After it appears , you should simply be able to go to Game - > New ... and select GameCenter Match in Players .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
Buy an <URL> from OWC or another vendor . Buy and put your SSD in the enclosure . Connect SSD/enclosure to your computer . Format the SSD with Apple 's Disk Utility . Use <URL> to copy your entire internal HD onto the SSD . Set startup to the SSD and boot from it to make sure it boots . Remove SSD from enclosure and install in MacBook Pro . Put MacBook Pro 's internal hard disk in now empty enclosure and use it as a backup . You also can use Disk Utility to image the drive if you do n't want to use a third party product like <URL> or <URL> . Some people also prefer a simple USB to SATA connector and you can usually get them for less than $ 5 from Amazon if you do n't need or want a drive enclosure for your old drive . However , the use of your old hard disk in an enclosure and a backup tool like SuperDuper ! or CCC gives you both an external drive and the beginning of a solid backup solution as well .
It is currently not possible to save or share a slideshow . The only output is to the device screen itself or over AirPlay .
It would be nice if Skype ( Microsoft ) synched the message history from your iDevices to your Mac where it is easily accessible , but I suspect they do n't . In the meanwhile you can try a trial version of something like iExplorer ( <URL> ) which can access most/all files created on iDevices and try to locate your Skype message history .
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
end question
start question
OS-X : How to copy files according to their file types from an external hard drive onto an OS-X computer ?
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
Whichever dictionaries you enable in the Dictionary app 's preferences will be available in the dictionary popover . You could either change these whenever you want to switch , or perhaps just leave both languages enabled all the time .
If you do n't have other Mail accounts with data that you want , quit Mail.app and delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , quit Mail.app , open the V2 folder inside the above path and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
Yes , you can . In Xcode , you can set archive for iOS Device even if you have n't got an iOS Device ( this is instead of " Simulator " ) and upload this binary to iTunes Connect perfectly fine .
I use <URL> , and while it is n't as scriptable as Fiddler , it does the job . And with single license key , you can run it on all OSes ( it 's written in Java ) . My needs were little different when I needed it ... I used it to debug webdav connections or to debug http communication between servers .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
I 'd like to point you to the following <URL> . Open up Automater and select " Service " in the " Choose your type for your document " Dialog . Afterwards use the apple-script in the linked answer and you can now run the service via : Finder -- > Services -- > Create new File Setup in Automator : Create new file in service menu of finder :
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
If the hard drive is not encrypted , then it 's not at all secure ! Basically anybody can take the hard disk , put it into an external enclosure and connect it to another Mac to read all files on the disk .
Unfortunately you have to format everything first . Easiest way will be to use Superduper ! or similar software to make an image of your current setup on another disk , then create the RAID array and restore the image back .
I would try using rsync from the command line . should do the trick . Mind the trailing / at the end of the source . Rsync will not copy files it finds on the destination , so if you call it a second time it will continue where it left off .
Yes ! As the disk is the correct format , it will show in the disk list in the installer ( click Show All Disks ) . You can install any version of OS X on a partition of the correct format , regardless of where the partition is located . The OS X installer does n't partition the disk for you though ; do this first in Disk Utility .
As stated by patrix : the personal files of other user 's on the same machine are generally stored in the folder for each user . The permissions on these folders are usually set such that they are private to the individual who owns the files . This means you need to use <URL> to elevate your own access levels in order to see their files . If you are truly an admin , using is something that 's ok , but do so with caution . If you are not an admin then you should n't have the proper privileges to do any of this and your repeated attempts to use are logged in the system access log . To simply list files in another user 's home directory ( let 's call them ) you do : The prefix is POSIX shorthand for " home directory of ... " . To browse freely , you can become that user with like so : This makes you , logged in as and in 's home directory . You can now move around , files , files , etc. as .
Yes you can , here are the steps : Connect your external disk Open Finder and go to move the Aperture Library.aplibrary file to a location on your new disk Open Aperture and go to preferences ( from menu or by pressing ⌘ + , ) On the General tab , change the location of the library to where you copied the Aperture Library.aplibrary file That 's it , the library is now on your external drive .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
Provided you have done what Vlad said ( enable the Bluetooth sharing ) and paired the devices ( which you seem to have done ) , I have absolutely no problem to send files via bluetooth using my Nexus-S . I have ICS 4.03 now , but I had 2.3.x ( where X is 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 if I 'm not mistaken ) . Once you have the devices Paired , if the Mac is in range and with BT enabled , the phone can send files because the Mac should be on the phone 's list of paired devices . I recall that in 2.3.x sometimes it wo n't work , but retrying to turning on/off BT was usually enough . I do n't use it a lot , but I just tried ( after months of probably never touching bluetooth on either device ) and I got this : Here 's my preference pane : and Finally , this is my Phone 's paired list ( two are intentionally blurred ) , but you can see my Macbook Air : Hope you can double-check your settings . For reference : I have Firewall ON I have Firewall Stealth ON . Here 's my Firewall Screen ( app list blurred by me ) :
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
end question
start question
Can I change compression settings on built-in archive utility ?
If you launch Archive Utility directly from , you can create <URL> - compressed archives , which can have a higher compression rate than zip compression . However if you 're compressing already compressed files ( like most music and video files ) , you likely wo n't get much space savings , if any . If you want to try however , open up Archive Utility , open the preferences , then change the Use archive format : setting to compressed archive , and create a new archive from the file menu ( ⌘ K ) . This setting only affects archives created when you open the Archive Utility app . Ones created with the Compress option in the Finder 's context menu will still be zip archives .
The 6th gen Nano can now be <URL> which introduced the features from the 7th gen , including 16 watch faces , some of which are digital . Version 1.2 of the iPod nano software brings improved fitness features ( which are better able to detect and track walking or running work outs ) , as well as the new single icon scrolling interface , which replaces the 4 × 4 icon grid . You can switch back to small icons or turn off home screen items altogether from the Settings menu . Last but not least , you 'll get access to all the new iPod nano clock face options .
This is currently not possible . Apple also <URL> , which means that there will probably not be any applications that do just that . There are , however , several other third party dictionaries which are quite good . A UIReferenceLibraryViewController object provides a dictionary service to look up the definition of a word or term from within an app . It should not be used to display wordlists , create a standalone dictionary app , or republish the content in any form . According to this answer <URL> you can download the application DictionaryPlusPlus , which does just that , here <URL> , it is open source and you will have to compile and sign it yourself .
This was possible in Tiger ( As far as I can remember or Leopard ) but on Snow Leopard , the " alias " is automatically resolved . If you create an Alias on your desktop for a folder XYZ and then drag the Alias onto your sidebar , it 's automatically resolved . So it does n't seem to be possible to override this .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
The only reason it would not last the hour would be if you did n't have room on the device to store the audio file . Bearing this in mind before you conduct an interview make sure you have enough memory to last . For a one hour recording you will need about 160mb of free disc space
Yes you can , with <URL> . It 's a free app that sits in your menu bar ( you can hide it if you want ) . It works all the way back to OS X Tiger .
From <URL> : To remap the esc key you have to copy to and then edit it , preferably using TextMate :) as Property List Editor messes up the codes . Look for nextCompletion and previousCompletion and replace their values with whatever suits your needs best . For example , you could replace \ 033 ( code for esc ) to - > | tab .
There is a command line wireless utility called , but it is not in the user $ PATH to be able to call it without remembering where it is . so to make it available at the line , and put it where it really belongs , in Terminal : And when calling it , gives great info about the wireless network you 're connected to : for syntax and quick help : outputs what looks like a man page , for examples and full help , call command without arguments :
You could either edit property lists that store the setting and reopen the DictationIM process : Or use UI scripting : Both scripts are copied from my answer to <URL> .
Look for the section titled " Changing Power Management Settings " in this <URL> . An AppleScript example from the guide :
As far as I know there is no way to make the desired changes all at once , but there is a way that you can make things significantly faster than creating a brand new chart . As it appears you 've already done , copy and paste the chart into your Numbers worksheet . Depending on the chart you 've created , select an individual line , bar , pie segment etc. and open the chart pane in the inspector . Here 's a screenshot of what that looks like ( with " Example 2 " being the copied and pasted chart ) : As you can see , in the field labeled " Data , " Table 1 is referenced . This source can easily be changed to a different table . Just delete the listed source and select the new source of data from your worksheet ( you do n't have to type in the source ) . Depending on your chart you may also want to change the data source for the x-axis labels . This is also controlled by the inspector . That can be changed here : While you 'll have to change the data source for each line of the chart , it 's certainly faster than creating a whole new chart and having to format it the way you 'd like .
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
Unfortunately the sensitivity of the tap-to-click feature on the trackpad may not be adjusted through the default system software at present . It may only be turned off altogether . However if you download <URL> it will allow you to adjust tap sensitivity , among other things .
I found the answer <URL> . Close Mail ; Go to ; Edit ( make a backup just in case ) ; Find the key-string pair : Change the tag value to your desired archive folder name , e.g. or depending on your account folder naming scheme . Save the file ; Reopen Mail The Archive folder ( s ) will now apear with their own icon on the left pane and not as regular folders . You can also add an archive button to the toolbar .
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
AppleScript is a nice way to go ! It works on Mavericks . It might need some modifications on older OS X because the UI of the mouse preferences changed .
I 've managed to get pretty far on my own , so I 'm posting an answer . If someone else has a better way , I 'll be glad to accept their answer . I ran into some gotchas along the way , so I wanted to share those as well . Here are the steps I took . Make sure TextMate is not running on your new Mac . On your old Mac , tar up the TextMate and Avian folders under ~ / Library/Application Support : ( You may or may not have the Avian directory . If not , skip instructions related to that . ) Copy those two tar files to your new Mac and place them under ~ / Library/Application Support , and then extract them : Copy the TextMate . plist files from ~ / Library/Preferences on your old Mac over to the same locations on your new Mac . For me this was the following two files : ( Here is the ' gotcha ' which took me awhile to figure out . ) You need to unquarantine the files you just copied over to your new Mac . Do this ( on your new Mac ) by clearing the extended attribute as follows : The and options to say to handle all files in those directories ( recursive ) and delete the attribute specified . If you get a bunch of permission errors , place in front of the xattr commands . The above appears to have restored the majority of the TextMate " behaviors " from my old Mac to my new Mac . I still had to open up the TextMate - > Preferences menu and do a side-by-side comparison , checking and unchecking boxes for various settings that did not transfer over with the above steps . Update : If you have a . tm_properties file , e.g. , , you 'll also want to copy that over to your new Mac .
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
end question
start question
How to prevent ssh from adding my key to ssh-agent on Snow Leopard ?
Automatically Added Keys There are three ways SSH keys are added to ssh-agent in Snow Leopard . manually , with ssh-add , automatically , by ssh when you supply a key 's passphrase via the GUI prompt , and automatically , by ssh-agent when it first starts . The last two methods are Apple extensions : there are no " automatic " additions with stock OpenSSH . All references to ssh , ssh-agent , and ssh-add below are to Apple 's Snow Leopard versions unless I prefix the program name with the adjective " stock " . You can disable all of Apple 's keychain-oriented SSH modifications with a ( undocumented ? ) preference setting : Keys Added Automatically By ssh ( This is the part I missed in the previous version of my original answer since I usually use a " stock " ssh . ) Whenever ssh tries to use a passphrase protected SSH key to authenticate itself to a remote host , it will issue a GUI prompt for the SSH key 's password . The key is also loaded into the agent ( if the passphrase is correct ) whether or not you mark the " Remember password in my keychain " checkbox . There are two ( undocumented ? ) ways to prevent ssh from issuing this GUI prompt ( and thus adding the SSH key to the ssh-agent ) : A preference setting : An <URL> entry ( or option to ssh ) that specifies . ( see in <URL> ; the parameter comes from the configuration setting ) When is disabled , ssh will prompt you in the normal way for the key 's password ( i.e. through the tty ) . You could also avoid automatic adds from ssh by using a " stock " ssh ( e.g. OpenSSH compiled by <URL> , <URL> " duplicates " from <URL> , or <URL> ) . Keys Added Automatically By ssh-agent The keys that ssh-agent automatically adds are those that have their passphrases stored in a keychain . These " remembered keys " are automatically added when a new ssh-agent starts . There is no command line or configuration option ( other than , described above ) to prevent ssh-agent from automatically loading the " remembered keys " ( see the call to ( defined in <URL> ) from in <URL> ) . If , however , you can arrange to lock the keychains that store your SSH key passphrases , you can click Cancel when ssh-agent asks to unlock the keychain ( s ) and effectively get ssh-agent to skip adding these " remembered keys " when it first starts . If there is no ssh-agent running , your first use of ssh will likely trigger launchd to start an ssh-agent which will load all the " remembered keys " . This makes it seem like ssh is loading the keys into the agent , but it is really the agent itself that is loading the keys . It only does this automatically when it first starts . The option of ssh-add provides a manual way to add the " remembered keys " ( see in <URL> which ends up as a message to the agent which calls from in <URL> ) . launchd Configuration You are right that a system update could overwrite your modification to the file in . You should always avoid changing things under ; most things can be ( re ) configured without making changes there . In this case , it looks like you should be able to override the system default launchd job specification on a per-user basis with a file in . From what I can tell1 , entries are loaded in this order2 : ( not present on most systems ) It does not seem to be documented , but only the first job configuration for each Label ( e.g. ) will be kept . Any configuration from a later directory with the same Label as a configuration from an earlier directory is effectively skipped . 1 See used in <URL> and defined in <URL> / <URL> . 2 launchd also looks in the directories next to the various directories for other types of jobs .
Simply put , you ca n't . The best you can do is to make sure Settings → Sounds &amp; Haptics → Vibrate on Silent is switched On . You ca n't otherwise override the hardware mute switch . You joked about applying glue , but a hardware solution does exist in the form of a case . With many iPhone cases , including Apple 's own Leather and Silicone Cases , surround the hardware Mute switch . Recessed in such a way , it becomes harder to switch off by accident . Or you can also get an WATCH ...
In Mountain Lion you can use the command . will prevent idle sleep for 1000 seconds .
First , the AppleScript that inspects the key state and handles the mic enabling and muting : Note , that the script depends on the <URL> ( and it 's path ) . inspects the state of shift instead of caps lock ( other possibilities are cmd , option , control and caps lock - caps lock , however , means the status of caps lock , not the key state ! ) In the second step we bind the script to a key shortcut . There are many applications that can do this ( some listed in <URL> ) or as an Automator service . ( C&amp;P from Lri 's answer ... ) One more option is to save the script as an Automator service : Open Automator and choose the Service template . Utilities -- Run Shell Script / Run AppleScript . Service receives [ no input ] in [ any application ] . Add the script to the text area and save . Assign a shortcut in System Preferences -- Keyboard -- Keyboard Shortcuts -- Services . So , I assigned opt + shift + M to the script above and it enables the mic , keeping it unmuted as long as I hold shift . The mic is muted again when I release shift .
Aqua Extreme comes with a separate package called Remove Aqua Extreme which restores the default user interface . If you download the latest Aqua Extreme from <URL> you will find the Remove Aqua Extreme package inside the installation bundle . Run this package , it should restore everything .
You would need to forward TCP port 548 , which is AFP ( Apple Filing Protocol ) . This is the storage protocol used by Time Machine to access content on a Time Capsule . Note : This will not necessarily make it possible for your remote systems to auto detect the Time Capsule - as any DNS information ( Bonjour ) you forward would probably be incorrect as it needs to be translated ( i.e. a different IP-address ) . Connect to the Time Capsule directly using the IP instead . From Finder select Go = > Connect to Server and then enter : afp : / / 123.123.123.123 / Substitute your own IP ofcourse !
I love <URL> - it 's something that I feel OSX needs and that would allow you to set a shortcut for it . Otherwise the green orb on the top left will take you to full height , and then you can drag out horizontally to your chosen width . Alternatively , should you upgrade to Lion , Chrome has a full-screen mode which hides all the other apps .
I remember watching the keynote when Snow Leopard was introduced : Steve Jobs pointed out how fast MacOSX was being improved and new features were added . Several major upgrades have been shipped , while Microsoft took years to ship Vista . From the beginning , Snow Leopard had the focus on improving the overall system performance and optimizing already implemented features . Also , cleanup was required as PowerPC support was dropped . Because no major enduser related features have been added , it 's been widely assumed that this is why the price dropped from $ 129 to $ 29 . Changes : support for 64-bit applications ( you can also boot the kernel in 64-bit mode if supported ) Grand Central Dispatch helps to get more out of your multi core processor . OpenCL offers GPU hardware acceleration for any application . PowerPC support was dropped . Microsoft Exchange Support for Mail , iCal , Address Book . QuickTime X ( full screen view , http live streaming ... ) Safari introduced Top Sites , Cover Flow and sandboxing for plug-ins . Anti-malware alers . Finder rewritten in Cocoa .
If you are looking for something that keeps track of servers/connections via a GUI , Terminal.app will already do that for you . Launch it and then from the menu select Shell > New Remote Connection . This will give you a connections manager window .
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
Try pinging the broadcast address . This should work as long as the Pi got an IP from DHCP and responds to ping . First , open up a terminal and run . This should give you the info for your ethernet interface , if not , just use and find it yourself . Make a note of the broadcast address . In my case , it 's 192.168.2.255 : So I 'll run the command . Do the same with your broadcast address , and hit CTRL-C to stop the ping once you have some results : The broadcast is intended to go out to everything on the network . Everything that hears it should respond . In my case , I only see my IP and my router 's - I guess it did n't bother passing the request on to my other machines , but you 're directly connected to the Pi so you should see it there .
From the <URL> page 2 Transfer . You may not rent , lease , lend , sell , redistribute or sublicense the Apple Software . Subject to the restrictions set forth below , you may , however , make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your license rights to the Apple Software ( in its original form as provided by Apple ) to another party , provided that : ( a ) the transfer must include all of the Apple Software , including all its component parts ( excluding Apple Boot ROM code and ﬁrmware ) , original media , printed materials and this License ; ( b ) you do not retain any copies of the Apple Software , full or partial , including copies stored on a computer or other storage device ; and ( c ) the party receiving the Apple Software reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License . <URL> , but the terms of the licence clearly anticipated your wish to sell .
It is not possible to browse the App Store . But if you have a link , such as <URL> , then you can view the app description in your browser .
Active Directory password policies are enforced , so you are in control of this . See this <URL> for more information .
I just found the answer to this you have to manually edit change this part : to this : then reboot or restart sshd
Yes you can , with <URL> . It 's a free app that sits in your menu bar ( you can hide it if you want ) . It works all the way back to OS X Tiger .
iSSH supported opening tunnels . For example , I can set a tunnel on local port 4444 that points to an IP address and port 80 . Opening localhost :4444 in Safari then loads that website through the tunnel . iSSH also has good support for saved configurations and public key authentication . Under the App Store rules , iSSH is only allowed to keep the connection open for up to 10 minutes in the background , so after 9 minutes or so I 'll get a notification and the tunnel will be closed if I do n't switch back to iSSH quickly enough . As of 2015 , iSSH is n't available anymore . The same functionality likely exists in other iOS SSH clients , but I have n't tried any myself .
I love the setting where you can only sync songs with the checkbox to one or more iOS devices . Simple deselect the songs by plalist , genre , or as you find them and even if they are in a playlist or genius mix that would normally install the song on your device during a sync , iTunes will suppress those songs that are not check marked .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
end question
start question
Why does the fan speed up like they do when there 's a firmware update ?
The fan speedup happens because normally the fan speeds are controlled dynamically in response to CPU temperature by the firmware ( and as the CPUs are typically underutilized , there is rarely or never any need to run the fans at anything like the maximum speed ) . However , when the firmware is being updated , that dynamic temperature control is not possible - for safety the speed is just set to the maximum and left there until the update is complete . This is true for all systems ( even PCs - you will often notice a high fan speed for a moment when booting them as well ) So the real question is why is the difference between normal and maximum fan speeds is so great in the laptop ( MacBook ) systems as opposed to Mac desktop/tower/mini systems - and the answer to that is simply that the laptop hardware has much smaller clearances and therefore poor airflow without fans running . So for safety and increased CPU speeds on laptop systems , more powerful ( louder , faster ) fans are needed ( although they will eat your battery , as much or more than the increased CPU power consumption itself when the CPUs are fully utilized ) .
This appears to be fixed in iOS7 - I set the DHCP Gateway to 0.0.0.0 and the iPad connects with a tickbox rather than leaving the spinning circle .
According to <URL> and <URL> the iPhone 4 is somewhat slower than the iPad , but still significantly faster than the iPhone 3GS . I guess that its A4 CPU is clocked at about 750 - 850 MHz .
UPDATE : The problem was due to broken filesystem permissions which were preventing the system from applying the update . Once the permissions have been fixed using Disk Utility , the update took place like a sweet .
The retina display of the new iPad has both ... a four times higher pixel density a better color saturation More vibrant colors will improve the looks of anything displayed on the screen . So this should make " non-retina compatible " games more fun as well . However , all of the iOS apps by Apple are in high-res and due to the huge difference in the used pixels , non-retina apps will appear to have worse graphics . The retina display is theoratically able to display four times the content . Apps that make use of only 1/4 of the pixel resolution are perceived less detailed .
What you 're seeing , namely , the behavior where the Escape key closes the window , is automatically built in to the class , which is a subclass of . From <URL> : A panel is a special kind of window , typically serving an auxiliary function in an application . The subclass of adds a few special behaviors to windows in support of the role panels play : ... • If a panel is the key window and has a close button , it closes itself when the user presses the key . The preferences window ( or panel ) in many applications is implemented as an : for example , Safari , Preview , Terminal , Console . The Fonts panel in Cocoa apps is implemented as an . When you choose Safari > Safari Help , it actually launches an invisible background application , HelpViewer.app ( / System/Library/CoreServices / HelpViewer.app ) , whose main window is implemented as a floating . For these reasons , those panels will respond to the Escape key by closing the window . Standard general windows , which are instances of , do n't automatically get this behavior , as only panels are meant to behave that way .
Duh ! Just click ' None ' for the credit card type . Not totally intuitive , but I should have figure this out without a question ...
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
If you 're running a system prior to OS X 10.9 , you might consider updating it . Upgrading Apple 's iApps from the 2011 versions to the 2013 versions requires either Mavericks ( for version 10.0.5 ) or Yosemite ( v10 .0.6 ) . The boilerplate message from the App Store has misled a good number of people . If , on the other hand , you are using 10.9 or 10.10 , first check the " Purchases " page of the App Store ( Fourth icon across on the top of the toolbar ) to see if the iApps are available for download . These versions replace -- not upgrade -- pre-installed iApps with bundles which tie them to a combination of your Apple ID and your computer 's hardware ID . If such is n't the case , contact <URL> , and explain your situation . You are entitled to an upgrade .
ISPGeeks.com has a non-flash java based bandwidth tester . It pretty accurately measured the speed of my iPad on my home connection , as compared to similar tests on the usual Flash-based sites .
It 's not normal , but a known issue . The problem appears each time your MacBook Pro switches to a Discrete Graphics Card . There are a couple of things you could try , as a temporarily fix : Turn Off the Automatic Graphics Switching in System Preferences / Energy Saver , Reboot , and then turn it On again . This will make the Discrete Card to be initialized correctly . This fix will work , though , until your next reboot . Use <URL> to force the use of the Integrated Card only . Some users got rid of it just by Rebooting , Repairing Permissions , Upgrading to the newest version or Reinstalling , though .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
Most switching power supplies use an EMI filter on the front , that looks like this : <URL> -- Schematic created using <URL> The " ground " is connected to the " ground " on the secondary side as well as the earth pin on the plug . If the plug has no earth pin ( or the socket does not have it ) , then when you touch it and an earthed object , a small current flows trough caps C2 and C3 . In most power supplies there is also a small capacitor bridging the primary and secondary windings of the transformer ( again , for EMI reasons ) .
This is Clear key . From <URL> : A Clear key , instead of a Num Lock key , on models with full numeric keypads , as these are dedicated to numeric input and not generally used for cursor control . In Unicode , the Clear key is represented by U +2327 ⌧ x in a rectangle box , defined as " clear key " Here are some Stack answers about the usage : <URL>
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
Nope , there 's no such setting in OS X . This has lead to the creation of a number of sleep-prevention apps : <URL> Simple app but lets you set options for each : <URL> A preference pane for enabling/disabling sleep-prevention .
It 's called the Command key , abbreviated as Cmd . Common nicknames are " clover " or " butterfly " . The symbol is based on one used on signs in Swedish campgrounds to note a place of interest ; Susan Kare of the original Mac team located it in a international symbol dictionary while looking for something to replace the Apple logo , which Steve Jobs felt was being overused . ( <URL> . ) On the Apple II , the keyboard featured open-Apple ( an outline ) and closed-Apple ( filled in ) keys beside the space bar . On early Macs , the same key had both the Command symbol and an Apple logo printed on it , and so some people carried over the terminology and continued to call it the Apple key . On newer Macs , the Apple logo has been removed , and the key features only the command symbol and the text " command " .
You can delete it ! Hide works only for moments , so in moments hidden photos wo n't appear
Yes it does , but the review times are much faster . I just submitted an update and it was reviewed and live within 5 days ( counting the weekend ) .
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
end question
start question
Do I have to turn on find my Mac on my computer ?
You are out of luck . If you did n't turn on Find My Mac in your MacBook was never registered , and can not broadcast its location , or respond to location pings . If you have all the important information about the computer ( serial number &amp; whatnot ) you should report the theft to your local police station , constabulary , gendarmerie , etc. .
Right-click a blank location ( e.g. not on an icon ) on your desktop and click ' Show View Options ' . Check the ' Show item info ' box : The effect happens immediately .
No , this is currently not possible . Your browsing history is not shared over iCloud and ca n't be viewed on your Mac .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
The default behavior is for iCloud Photo Library not to store full-size versions of your photos on your iPhone and iPad : The theory is that only thumbnails are stored on your iPhone/iPad until you decide to view/edit/share the photo , at which point a device-optimized or full-size version of your photo is downloaded from iCloud . ( Note : I know a full-size copy is downloaded when you edit/share , but it appears that if your iPhone has plenty of space it will download a full-size copy for viewing as well , as opposed to just a device-optimized version . This is likely to avoid having to do a second download later if you decide to share the photo . ) When you start running low on space , iOS will begin pruning less-accessed photos and return to simply thumbnails or device-optimized versions of those . All of this happens automatically in the background and you should n't have to worry about managing space yourself .
This will be extraordinarily difficult to do at run-time , and with any document . The few solutions that have implemented this technology ( remembrance agent <URL> and Dashboard <URL> are probably the most notable and " successful " ) required specific search indexers for each type of application and up-front document analysis . ( Very much how you ca n't search in Spotlight while it is " updating " . ) For example , if you typed the word " from " , you would not necessarily want to see all of your email messages just because they all feature the word as part of their metadata . However , if you typed " Art Taylor " , you would expect to see email , chat , and other documents related to me . The problem is of summarizing the semantic content from the structural content . That 's why DEVONthink requires you to import the documents . It can summarize the documents and present results more or less in real time , because it has done the summarization up front . Spotlight does some of this as well , but no great context aware knowledge and memory augmentation applications have popped up that offer universal document support . If you google " knowledge augmentation " , you will find a large number of articles and papers on the topic . People are very interested in this and I think it is just a matter of time before someone attacks the problem with a commercial solution . Gordon Bell had a tantalizing project called " MyLifeBits " <URL> that was a little over the top , but IBM <URL> is doing some research on associative recall . Note the " Capture " and " Ingest " stages . The scope of both of these is much beyond simple document relationships . Years ago , I tried the DEVONthink " put it all in there " approach , and as you probably suspect , it was a disaster . Best of luck .
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
It 's indeed the sound Facebook makes when there is a new notification . Or at least , that 's what it sound like ( very much ) . Recently , Facebook did some testing and as you can hear on <URL> , sounds are very similar . Not very user-friendly , but luckily you can disable this sound if it 's bothering you . Go to your <URL> Uncheck the sound option
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
If by " 3g chip " , you are referring to the iPad MicroSIM card , then no , you do not need to power off the device to switch it out . However , if you 're referring to the actual 3G radio inside the iPad , my advice is to take it to an Apple store and have the repair done by an Apple technician , as operating on the device yourself is likely to void the warranty .
If you are virtualizing a version of Windows , I would recommend you do use anti-virus software . Although Windows is running in a VM , it still is Windows and is vulnerable to viruses . A good choice of anti-virus software for Windows is <URL> which is free from Microsoft . ( Note that : " Your PC must run genuine Windows to install Microsoft Security Essentials . " ) If you are virtualizing a Linux distro , there is <URL> , so I would recommend anti-virus as well . There are several listed on <URL> , including <URL> ( Free ) and <URL> ( Free ) .
Go to iTunes on a computer and select your Account ( on the right hand side of the window towards the top once you are signed in ) . Select Manage Devices under iTunes in the Cloud . All computers in this list count against the 5 total computer authorizations each Apple ID can have . <URL>
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
Library like many of the folders that exist in the root of your home folder have special permissions . I have better luck selecting all inside the folder , trashing them , then restoring all in place . Working inside the folder is less error prone than trying to change the folder itself .
If you wanted to connect to two different networks you could use this . So say you had an internal network which you had your own computers all linked to but were not connected to the internet , you could use one port to connect to this network . Then you could connect the other port to a broadband router/modem and access the internet on your Mac Pro . It 's really more of an interest to businesses than domestic users . You could also use the second port to connect to Network Attached Storage ( NAS ) such as a MyBook World or similar . This would allow you to use the full bandwidth of one port for backups to disk while not affecting the speed on the other network . Backup interface in case one fails . You could have each interface connect to different switches on your network in case of a failure on one you still have access to the network on the other . There 's also something called <URL> which allows you to combine the ports to act as one port with twice the speed . However , this depends on your other network equipment supporting this mode .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
There is a <URL> which allows you to publish your books . <URL> .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
end question
start question
Apple Keyboard may be broken . . Any way to be sure ?
Once a keyboard trace has been damaged by water , it 's practically impossible to fix them . You 're better off buying a new keyboard . It 's not the best news , but once a keyboard has been damaged by liquid , there 's very little chance they will work again . For cleaning your keyboard , I 'd recommend isopropyl alcohol pads .
I found this article , <URL> , and possible solutions : It has always been a challenge for IT administrators to find solutions and tools compatible with Mac OS X , but now securing the network and data Mac users access is also becoming a priority . <URL> ' Endpoint Protector 4 with Enforced Encryption on removable storage devices for Mac OS X solves these problems . It offers an easy , yet secure way for Mac users to encrypt data copied onto USB storage devices . With intuitive ' drag &amp; drop ' and copy/paste features , all information copied on the device is instantly protected by password-based military strength AES 256-bit encryption . The Enforced Encryption functionality also incorporates an additional security feature that deletes information if an attempt is made to tamper with the data , or when the device gets lost or stolen . Therefore , stopping users from taking classified information from Macs minis , iMacs , Mac Pros , MacBooks onto portable devices has become an imperative for the companies ' data security . Locking down and monitoring proactively the use of USB , CD/DVD , card readers , etc. is possible with Device Control by Endpoint Protector for Mac OS X and can be managed centrally from the intuitive web-based interface .
I have been following Swype for some time , and the only thing they have officially said was one little peep in Reuters back in June about looking towards iPhone development . In the article they alluded towards a developer running Swype on his iPhone , however no releases or leaks are anywhere to be found . <URL> My guess ... just a guess ... is that they are trying to work around the need to jailbreak your iPhone in order to run it . If you follow the Engadget blog , you 'll be among the first to know . <URL>
The response I got from Apple Support : For many repairs , as well as quality checks after a completed repair , it is necessary that our technicians can boot the Mac . If FileVault is enabled , that means that we do need to note the password for the time of the repair . A viable alternative is to wipe the Mac 's hard drive or flash storage prior to the repair and restore from a backup afterwards . So either prepare to hand off your password to them , or empty your hard drive before giving the macbook for repair .
The ideal solution ( that I 've found after years of cleaning Apple products ) is not to use alcohol directly . Instead , mix it with water . The proportion to mix is simple : Three parts isopropyl alcohol Seven parts water I use a bottle cap , fill it with alcohol three times then the same cap with water seven times ( you can use something bigger if you want more ) . With that solution , you 're safe to clean all your mac and the alcohol presence guarantees a slow but secure grease removal without leaving the typical alcohol stain/residue that occurs when you use pure alcohol . Also the low concentration makes it safer against things that may get damaged by the usage of pure alcohol like rubber compounds or human skin . For occasional cleanup you can use the simple , free and excellent <URL> . All it does is make your screen black ( so you can clean it better ) and lock your keyboard so you do n't trigger accidental keys while cleaning . Of course , you can always shutdown the computer too . Regarding products like iKlear and such , they are ok , in fact I 'd recommend you always get a bottle of iKlear around , it 's good to have and their small wet towels are very handy for quick clean . Remember never to use toilet/kitchen paper , use instead any " approved " cloth ( like iKlear , TomBihn , etc. ) the " micro fibers " are designed to not scratch your surface . I would n't use pure alcohol .
I would suggest <URL> . You can apply it to your entire network using their name servers and block categories or specific URL 's . Although the ad might show up as a frame to a ' Website Blocked ' page from OpenDNS , you 'll probably find it useful ( it 's free ) .
Yes . Terminal supports escape sequences for manipulating windows , including the size and position , layering , and minimizing . Dimensions can be expressed in pixels or characters . See <URL> for details ( search for " Window manipulation " ; if you 're not familiar with the notation , " CSI " stands for " Control Sequence Introducer " , which is ) . For example , this shell command will set the window to 100x50 characters : Minimize the window for a few seconds , then restore it : Move the window to the top/left corner of the display : Zoom the window : Bring the window to the front ( without changing keyboard focus ) :
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
Yes , you can . Good thing you do n't care about your warranty though . <URL>
When viewing your calendars at iCloud.com , click the " shared calendar info " button next to the calendar of interest ( Button is white for unshared calendars , green for shared ) . In the new window , check the " email me when this calendar is changed " box . Now , whenever someone else updates the calendar you will get an email with the change .
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
One more thing you could try : Uninstall all HP printer driver software using the HP uninstaller in Applications > Hewlett-Packard . Reboot / restart your mac . Reset the printing system via : Sys Prefs , Print &amp; Fax Right ( control ) click in the rectangle listing your printers and then choose Reset Printing System . CAUTION : The above steps will delete all of your printers . Select the plus sign to re-add it . Look for the printer , select it and wait until the " Add " button becomes available . Click it . Hope this helps .
The short answer is no , not yet . The long answer is because the only ( reliable/legal ) way to get Siri on a non-iPhone 4S device is to use a package found in Cydia called <URL> . This requires you to have access to a <URL> or an iPhone 4S for the tokens . However , <URL> ( the developer of the package ) has stated many times that it will not run on iOS 5.1 , because the iPhone 4S IPSW ( the actual firmware downloaded from Apple ) <URL> . This IPSW is needed to harvest the Siri files for use on other devices . He could port it illegally , but he does n't plan on it . Because the new iPad is running iOS 5.1 , Siri can not be run on it , plus a public JailBreak for the new iPad has n't been released yet .
Yes . ( It 's a " world iPad " for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . ) Whether a device functions worldwide for a specific wireless standard depends on the frequency bands that it supports . E.g. . The new iPad supports LTE , but only the frequency bands 700 MHz and 2100 MHz which are not used outside the US . The <URL> has been called a world phone , because it supports all the frequency band used for GSM <URL> : 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz The <URL> supports the same GSM frequency bands for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . Therefore it 's a " world iPad " . Of course you need a SIM-tray , to make use of this . Like the iPhone , the iPad has a Micro-SIM card tray .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
I saw this link , but instructions are outdated and does not work on El Capitan <URL> Trying to find a solution myself for El Capitan
There is currently no information on whether this update will appear via the built-in App Store update mechanism - as described by <URL> in the <URL> : " Nobody knows because Apple does n't publish any update/patch strategies , and any other possible answer will not be backed up by facts " .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
The easiest thing to do is clean up the index file Mail uses to track the messages : Thanks for this <URL> . The linked article explains how to make an AppleScript file to measure things before and after to see if the operation thinned out the size of the file Mail uses to store the pointers to the messages . I would add , quit Mail and make a backup before trying to clean the file . A operation is normally harmless , but why not get a backup just in case . Also , this thread probably goes back to <URL> and perhaps even deeper back ...
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
end question
start question
Can i change the App availability multiple times ?
There does n't seem to be a limit on how many times you can change an app 's availability date . Note that there 's a 24 -- 48 hour delay for your change to the availability date to be reflected across every App Store .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
I measured my MacBook Pro 's charger , and the iPhone/iPad chargers , with a Kill-a-Watt-like device , and it did n't seem to use any significant power when plugged into the wall on its own ( e.g. it was less than 1 watt ) . BUT : I 'm not sure if my device is sensitive enough to measure very small amounts of power though . your mileage may vary . If you 're interested in this sort of thing , I 'd get a little dongle of your own and do some measuring . Mine cost about # 5 .
Nope , not possible within Skitch . The quickest workaround I 've found to achieve that is using Keynote as a canvas , so you can combine the image in no time : open a new ' White ' theme in Keynote drag &amp; drop the 2 images from Skitch to Keynote align the images in Keynote , resize , do some edits if necessary take a snapshot with Skitch
You can use the Automator workflows . Choosing PDF on the left and then dragging the action " Set PDF metadata " ( or something similar , my version is in Italian ) on the right part of the Automator window you can put author , title and whatever in one or multiple PDF files . Issues and workarounds : if you update the metadata directly on your PDFs in the iBooks folder it will not update iBooks , so you wo n't see any change . I suggest to copy your PDFs on you desktop , erase the PDFs from iBooks , use Automator to add the metadata and then re-import ( drag and drop is useful here ) the books in your iBooks . I have just finished updating my files , you ca n't go wrong ;)
Your frustration with the Finder is a worldwide sport :) Finder does make things harder sometimes . Finder exhibits different behavior depending upon the context ( both the source and destination ) of your files . If you drag files in the same " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Move . If you drag files to a different " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Copy . However , this behavior can be inverted by pressing ⌥ while dragging . ( That 's option or alt in non-apple keyboards ) . So for instance if you Drag a set of files to another folder in the same drive ( say from your Documents to your Desktop ) , Finder will default to Move those files . If you intend to Copy , you have to press ⌥ . This will change the cursor and a green " + " marble will appear , indicating that you will be making a copy . If , on the other hand you insert a USB Key and want to Move files from there to your Desktop , Finder will default to Copy ( when you drag ) , so you will have to override it by , again , pressing ⌥ . This time the Green " + " Marble will disappear . If you happen to have a two-button mouse , you can always drag with the right mouse button ; upon release in the destination folder , a contextual menu will appear , asking you for an action ( Copy or Move ) . Finder does n't implement cut , so any " move " operation must be manually performed by using the mouse as I 've just described . There is , albeit for a small price , a very decent Finder " plug-in " . I 'm talking about <URL> . It 's not a bloated piece of software and has been decently stable since I got it . Among other features ( like tabs ! ) it sports Cut and Paste : Use keyboard shortcuts to move files around . Faster than drag &amp; drop . I do not work for BinaryAge but I do recommend TotalFinder to people who does n't want to use a full finder replacement ( like the excellent <URL> ) , but still wants a few details . All these pieces of software offer trial versions so you can " see for yourself " . Finally , as already suggested , do n't ⌘ and click to move or copy files or you will be effectively deselecting the last one . Hope this helps you a little bit more . As a side note , there are some Finder alternatives or enhancements , some of these topics have been discussed here on Ask Different .
If you can already log in on an account with administrator privileges ( normal OS X account ) and know its login password , you can reset the passwords of other admin accounts in System Preferences > Accounts . If you ca n't , you can reset the passwords of admin accounts in single user mode . See <URL> . If you actually mean the password of the root user , it can be changed from / System/Library/CoreServices / Directory Utility.app / , but you have to be logged in on an admin account and know its login password .
Select the photos you want , then select the menu command " Image " - > " Adjust Date and Time ... " which pops up the window that you are looking for . It seems as though it also gives control over the time zone for images with location data .
macs do have hibernate and sleep , the default on newer machines is a combination . the closing of the lid saves to disk for hibernate but on wakeup if the battery has not run out it wakes from sleep . <URL> You can change it from the command line Or via <URL> <URL>
I think if all you 're doing is telling your friends about your app and encouraging them to post honest reviews in the App Store , that 's probably fine . If , however , you were trying to get your friends who 'd never even used the app to positively review it in the App Store , that would probably be considered a breach of that rule .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
Go to Finder → Preferences → Tags . You can rename/delete tags by right-clicking and modify the coloured tags with the control at the bottom .
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
Currently this is how the Apple Configurator works - it does n't have a provision to load a certificate but instead generates self-signed ones automatically . If I run across a way to hack this , I 'll link it here , but if you need profiles to arrive with a signed certificate look into Lion server or another MDM solution . In practice - you only see the certificat warning when you are sitting in frot of your Mac and connecting devices via USB . I 'm not sure what additional layer of securyity a signed certificate can provide in this case . It 's not like you are connecting to some remote server when these profiles get installed .
Do Not Disturb can do that , no 3rd party app needed . You might have to juggle a new contacts group , because it only allows to receive calls from one group at a time , or favourites - so to exclude ' work ' you might need to create a new group containing ' everyone else ' <URL> You can also toggle it manually from the Lock Screen <URL>
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
You ca n't . Must contact Apple Support to do it . How can I update or change my iOS Developer Program account information ? Please <URL> for assistance with : Address changes Contact information updates Company/Organization name updates or changes <URL>
Terminal - > Preferences - > Settings Select a color scheme and click
Open the file in Preview Now Click on Edit In Edit menu bar click on the last icon looks like a square with line from corner to corner . In the new window you can adjust the size and the resolution .
end question
start question
What is the best icon creator for mac ?
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
I 've been monitoring my fan speeds for as long as I 've had my device . At idle , the lowest it gets is hovering around 2000rpm . The left fan is usually closer to 2100rpm , actually . The maximum speed appears to be 6000rpm , which occurs during gaming and heavy CPU loads . <URL> lets you monitor and control your fan speeds . The minimum setting is 2000rpm and the max is 6000rpm , so I think we can safely conclude that these are the standard maximum and minimum values .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
Nothing will run while the computer is asleep . Unlike humans , where sleep is different than death , when a computer sleeps it is essentially equal to being powered off . There are a few subtle differences , the primary being that it wakes up faster than from a cold boot . This is because there is enough power supplied to the RAM ( memory ) to keep it active , but this does not mean there is power supplied to the CPU ( heart ) , or that any processes are active . Any processes that are active are below the operating system , in the BIOS of the computer . This is where the " Wake On Lan " feature resides , for example .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
Here is the Mountain Lion end user license agreement that is your best starting point for what Apple feels it has actually sold you for your money . <URL> Of course , you 'll want a lawyer to give you advice on what is customary , but the artwork is n't explicitly called out as something you are prohibited from using commercially . However , you would want to be very sure of trademark infringement issues if a reasonable person would recognize that you are re-using Apple 's works for commercial benefit . I personally would steer clear of using this and pay someone to provide you with your work or grab thing that are shared more explicitly under a creative commons license . Apple does indicate that you can use fonts under some restrictions ( make something with them - do n't just resell them ) and you will see in the application specific licenses that in general you do n't get intellectual property rights to any assets included in the software unless it 's called out explicitly as done for <URL> . The obvious uses like loops for music software are given knowledge base articles , but items like wallpaper do n't get an article and you are expected to be able to read the license and perhaps between the lines of what the licenses do n't say . Basically , you probably have n't been granted the right to re-use the assets , so use common sense if you do n't know it 's OK or have asked for permission to use it . You might find out that Apple has licensed these and you can use them , but I do n't see any wording to call this out in the license terms .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
Here is what I do , where I share one appleid for purchases among 3 family members . Number one , only use the appleid for purchases just for purchases . then , each member should have a separate iCloud account with a unique appleid for mail , contacts , iCal , etc syncing . Then , on all devices set the appleid for the store to the purchase id and on the individual devices set the iCloud id to the appleid for each individual separately . Works great for me .
Put the library file in a folder that is accessible to other computers and set permissions so that it can be accessed/edited by other users . You also need to be certain that only one person is editing the file at any given time -- the software is n't designed as a shared database and I do n't know what , if any , protections it provides against this scenario . You can also use referenced images instead of managed and put those images in a shared space . However , other users will only have access to the master images and you will want to beware of external edits that are destructive to those master files . Changes to that file hierarchy itself ( file moves , renames , etc ) made outside of Aperture will result in broken links and you 'll have to relocate the images from inside Aperture . . I prefer the simplicity , security and beauty of a managed library . In what way is this lock-in ? It 's a simple case of access to a database file . Granted the file -- a sparse bundle containing images , metadata and edit instructions in which your master images are stored in their original format -- is proprietary to Aperture but the master files remain available should you lose Aperture for some reason . Accessing the files contained within the Aperture Library package using a right ( control ) - click Inside the library bundle your master images are filed , hierarchically by import date , in their original format . They can be copied out as you wish . I fail to see this as an example of Apple forcing the eco system on you . You are not forced to use Aperture if you do n't like it 's features and limitations and departure is a simple export ( of versions and masters ) or " unbundling " of the library file ( masters only ) away . Beautiful indeed .
It 's indeed the sound Facebook makes when there is a new notification . Or at least , that 's what it sound like ( very much ) . Recently , Facebook did some testing and as you can hear on <URL> , sounds are very similar . Not very user-friendly , but luckily you can disable this sound if it 's bothering you . Go to your <URL> Uncheck the sound option
I have run Mavericks/Yosemite on a 64 GB SD card and after a clean install , there was about 20-30 GB free . I would say that you could install Yosemite on a 20 GB partition , but I would not recommend anything less than 30 GB .
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
I 've used both , bought Versions in the end . They were both about equal in my use cases . What really helped was adding <URL> to my tool box and using it for diffs instead of the XCode diff engine or the simple diff engine in Versions .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
The explanation on the Preferences panel is wrong and confusing . The Retina display does n't actually run at 1280x800 . Instead it just " looks like " it does . A 13.3 inch screen running at 96dpi ( pixels ( dots ) per inch ) has a resolution of about 1280x800 and the 8pt font and other on screen elements are big enough for the eye to see . When you run a 13.3 at retina resolutions 2560x1800 the fonts are much much smaller and hard to look at , so OS X makes them as big as they were at 1280x800 but more detailed . You get to see the same thing as one would at 1280x800 but at much greater detail 226dpi instead of 96dpi . Resolution is just a big " carpet " of dots , you have a fixed amount of them and you can make the dots bigger to cover more area . For example a 3840x2160 4K TV that is 48 inches wide diagonally has about 90 pixels per inch comparable to a normal desktop monitor . A 15 inch Retina Macbook Pro has 2800x1800 ( a little less than the 4k tv ) but they are packed smaller and closer together on a much smaller surface area , 15 inch wide instead of 48 .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
You can effectively turn off push notifications for a particular email account ... sort of . Go to the Settings app , and hit " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Go to " Fetch New Data " , then scroll down and go to " Advanced " . For the email account whose little red badges you do n't want , change the setting to " Manual " instead of " Push " . This will prevent new messages from pushing a notification icon to the home screen . However , when you open the Mail app to check your other email , the app will sync the " Manual " account with the server and you 'll get a badge if there are unread messages there . So , like bmike mentioned , the real way to get rid of those badges is to get closer to inbox zero .
<URL> - UnityGmer <URL> - UnityWidgets <URL> - DashboardGmer -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Games . <URL> - RetroGmer -- Awesome Retro Gaming <URL> - GameWidgets -- Get Mac OS X Dashboard Games ! <URL> - UnityPlay <URL> - MacGmer <URL> - WidgetGmer -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - GameCentr -- Get everything Mac Gaming ! <URL> - GmerApps <URL> - GmerWidgets -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - TheDashboard -- Get Pimping Hot Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - MacWidgets <URL> - DashboardCenter -- Get the best Dashboard Widgets for your Mac <URL> - DashboardClocks -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - DashboardSearch -- Mac OS X Dashboard Search Widgets <URL> - DashboardCandy <URL> - DashboardWidgets <URL> - ClockWidgets -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - Pimp my Dashboard -- Get The Best Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - Get Mac Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , Updates , Downloads , News ... <URL> - MacSupport <URL> - Mac101 -- Get one to one with your Mac ! <URL> - MacTips -- Get Mac OS X Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , News ... <URL> - OS X Tips <URL> - GarageBand Tips <URL> - DashboardTips -- Get Tips and Tricks for your Mac OS X Dashboard <URL> - MacHelp <URL> - Mac Videos <URL> - iTunesSupport <URL> - SafariSupport <URL> - ChromeSupport <URL> - GoogleSupport <URL> - FirefoxSupport <URL> - AppCenter <URL> - MacWall -- Get beautiful wallpapers for your Desktop <URL> - MacCenter -- Get Mac OS X Tips , News and Apps <URL> - MacApps -- Get Mac Software , Tips and New ... <URL> - MacDesktop -- Get Mac OS X Desktop Enhancements and Customization <URL> - MacDownloads -- Find the most popular downloads for your Mac ! <URL> - DownloadCenter -- Get Mac Downloads , Updates and Support <URL> - MusicCenter -- Get Mac OS X Music Apps , Downloads and Support <URL> - MenuBars -- Get super smart apps for the Mac OS X menu bar ... <URL> - MacSearch -- Everything about search on Mac ! <URL> - DevCenter <URL> - XcodeTips -- Get Xcode Development Tips , Tricks and Guides <URL> - DashcodeTips -- Developer Tips for Dashcode <URL> - iOS Center -- Get iPhone , iPad and iPod Support <URL> - iOS Support -- Apps , News and Tips
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
end question
start question
What is the most OSX or Darwin-like command-line experience available ( without buying an expensive Mac or hauling my production machines home ) ?
Apple software is only licensed to run on Apple products . Commands such as dscl , diskutil , defaults , etc. are specific to OS X . However you will find that outside of that , most of the CLI is very similar to other * nix flavors .
See <URL> . Quote : Turn Airport Off via Command Line Turn Airport On via Command Line You wo n't see any confirmation in the Terminal that the command succeeded or failed , but if you watch the AirPort menu icon you will see the bars disappear indicating the wireless interface is turned off , or reappear indicating that wireless is activated again . NOTE : In OS X Lion , use the hardware name above instead of , e.g. .
The KeePass documentation in <URL> , although not specifically mentioning OS X , describes your issue : Clipboard : On some systems , Mono 's clipboard routines do n't work properly . In this case , install the xsel package . If is installed , KeePass ≥ 2.20 uses this utility for clipboard operations . So should help . ( is available from MacPorts ( <URL> ) . The source is available here : <URL> ) EDIT : But it does n't . I was curious so I compiled on my Mac . It did n't solve the issue with copy/paste ( tested with Portable KeePass 2.20.1 ) , as I feared , I must say . Why ? Because as stated here <URL> is a tool that manipulates the clipboard contents of X11 applications . X11 provides the graphical user interface for Linux and UNIX , but OS X uses Quartz instead , and so does Mono , as I realized ( see <URL> ) . There 's a workaround for copying username and password to clipboard , as explained in this thread <URL> : Ureka ( sic ) . Your 2.19 is on the path to copy paste working on the MAC via Mono ! Your button to copy the username , and your button to copy the password works now !!! The poster above refers to these buttons ( portable KeePass 2.20.1 shown running on Windows ( sorry , no Mac nearby ) ) : For copying the username : For copying the password : EDIT : I 'd like to share how I compiled in case somebody needs it on OS X : Install X11 from <URL> ( this only applies to OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " users ) . Symlink header and library files from to and from to ( alternatively you can symlink to and ) : Otherwise you will get lots of errors about files not found or missing symbols . I tried passing the non-standard X11 directories as an option to without success . Download from <URL> and extract , for example , to your Desktop . You need plus libraries . Install Xcode and then install the command line tools from Xcode > Preferences > Downloads > Components . Change directory , configure and compile : You can also install with MacPorts using the command . In my setup it also required the symlinks for the X11 libraries and header files and needed much longer to compile . I 'd also like to share some caveats when using KeePass on a Mac : KeePass 2.18 ( from <URL> ) has trouble with case-sensitive HFS + . is typed ( notice lowercase ' p ' ) in ( so that it silently fails ) . I had to use a USB flash drive formatted with case-insensitive HFS + and run KeePass from there . I had a lot of trouble getting KeePass 2.20.1 to work on OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " . It could n't get rid of the error message : I finally found the culprit : The release notes for version 2.20.1 state ( <URL> ) : Changes from 2.20 to 2.20.1 : On Unix-like systems , KeePass now stores most of its temporary files in a private temporary directory ( preferably in ) . According to <URL> : defines the base directory relative to which user-specific non-essential runtime files and other file objects ( such as sockets , named pipes , ... ) should be stored . The directory MUST be owned by the user ... was not set . I set it to a directory I owned and KeePass worked like a charm :
Spotlight indexes are updated when a file is written , so results should be available within milliseconds of the write operation being finished . Delays in finding a search result are due to a slow or problematic index or a failure of the scanner to complete that file . You 'll need to diagnose spotlight or perhaps just rebuild your index around the folder if you have problems with the subsystem . It 's hard to know what of the three causes is happening without someone who knows how things work poking at the system .
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
Okay , so I found out that there is one option that kind of supports Apple 's Magic Mouse and Magic Trackpad gestures . The <URL> allows you to control your Mac with touch gestures and comes in a wired , USB model . If anyone finds another solution , please post it , because I was really looking for a wired mouse that can do this and would appreciate the input . Thanks again ,
, , and are perfectly good DNS query tools in OS X , but they all query DNS directly rather than going through OS X 's internal resolution system . As a result , they do n't check the / etc/hosts file , or resolve Bonjour/mDNS names ( those ending in . local ) . The standard ( quick 'n dirty ) way to test resolution is to use , since it 'll resolve the address you give it through the usual system before attempting to ping it . If you want something intended for the purpose , use instead :
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
Apple software is only licensed to run on Apple products . Commands such as dscl , diskutil , defaults , etc. are specific to OS X . However you will find that outside of that , most of the CLI is very similar to other * nix flavors .
I believe the phrase you 've heard is probably in reference to a faulty/dud piece of equipment , as per the definition : I do n't think it 's something Apple or Mac specific , and in fact is probably more often used with non Apple products .
Anecdotally , the drives of 5 to 15 years ago would run longer if you never spun them down . When I managed servers - the drives failed less rapidly than the inexpensive hard drives that were in workstations ( which typically spun down ) . It 's not clear if we would have seen similar failure rates if we placed the higher priced ( and presumably better built for the long run ) drives in the workstations . I have seen no credible studies that show any drive from the last 5 years lasting longer by disabling sleep . It 's hard to imagine a case where you would n't want to have a computer sleep even if it were going to decrease the useful life of an inexpensive storage drive due to other components failing over time and the waste of energy . We do n't yet have good data on SSD wearing out either as OEM parts ordered from Apple or aftermarket SSD , but it will be interesting to see how they wear out due to write failures and if sleep writing of large RAM images will add up to enough writes to shorten the life of an SSD that otherwise would be healthy in the absence of storing sleep images .
You could try restarting which , amongst many things , draws the wallpaper on the desktop . But be careful ; as also controls a lot of window management apps may ' un-minimise ' or un-hide and windows . As also controls Mission Control , you wo n't be able to change spaces or go into Mission Control until restarts again ( which is mostly instantly ) . From terminal , try :
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
In the Go menu of Finder , there is an option titled Go to Folder ... with the keyboard shortcut ⇧ shift + ⌘ cmd + G . This will prompt the user to enter a folder path and it allows Unix conventions ( like using to refer to one 's home directory ; for example refers to the Documents folder under your home folder ) . You can also type part of the file or folder name and hit Tab for autocompletion of the name . Note that you can go to any folder using this option ( including your own folders for documents , music , downloads , movies and so on ) , not just system files or folders . Although OS X , starting with OS X Lion 10.7 , started hiding important folders like ( the folder under one 's home directory ) , the file/folder permissions system in OS X ensures that unless a user has an administrator account name and password , they can not damage anything beyond what 's within their own home folder ( and the contents within it ) . Even if you disable this command , a user can still view system folders like , , etc. ( although the user wo n't be able to modify or delete anything there without administrator access/credentials ) . The user can also open up and navigate through directories that Finder does not show and cause damage to . If you still wish to disable it and remove this option in Finder : Open ( from ) Type the command : To enable it again , use the command ( replacing with from the previous command ) : In conclusion , I 'd suggest not to worry too much about it . Instead , the following may help better : Keep the administrative account separate from normal user accounts Ensure that user accounts are only shared with trusted people ( or preferably , have one user account for each real user ) Share the administrator credentials only with trusted users Removing the option is more like <URL> , and is not really a fool proof way to protect the system .
This is n't a pretty way to do it , but it does get you the info you desire : The command is slow , mostly because of how much data spews out . But as a summary : lists loads of info about the system is a " pipe " and puts the output of 1 to another command ( 3 ) searches for patterns/words , in our case " Interfaces " The switch prints out the 15 lines following the match . Example output : You can limit to a lower number ( say 3 ) to just get the card id and the Firmware version ( i.e. That 'll be the chipset ) . If that is too much info , you can always get some info on your interfaces with or , but neither includes info about the chipset/manu unless you want to parse it out of the MAC address ( first 6 chars , I think ) . Otherwise , you could look into installing , but that is probably in the scope of another question .
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
On my machine ( running 10.8.3 ) , it is in . You can search for this using Spotlight : press cmd-space or click the magnifying glass near top right in the menu bar . There are also some key shortcuts that save ( or copy to the clipboard ) images from the screen , clipped in various ways . cmd-shift-4 is one I use regularly , but there are several variants on this .
Here is a shell script I wrote at work to handle this as part of the NetInstall process ( creating a local administrator account automatically during imaging process ) . Some notes to mention : I have this saved as an executable " . sh " file . Since it executes during NetInstall it runs as root , and needs to run as root to work properly . You can also subtract the first two lines , add a " sudo " to the beginning of each subsequent line , and manually run these as individual commands in Terminal . Modify UniqueID from 501 to a number that you will know is safe on all systems ( 501 is taken by the first account created on a Mac , generally something higher like 550 will probably be safe , depending on how many users you have on your system ) . PrimaryGroupID of 80 creates an Admin user . Change to PrimaryGroupID of 20 to create a Standard user . I 've imaged well over 50 Macs this way with no issues . I use this account to run commands via SSH , to push out patches via ARD and to do local desk-side administration .
In the Finder in Mac OS X , press Command-Shift-G to Go to folder . Type . This will take you to the " Volumes " folder . If your iDevice is mounted as a drive , it will appear here . You can select it and press Command-E to eject it . If it does not appear here , it is not mounted as a drive , and you can simply unplug it . Note that it may or may not appear on your Desktop or in a Finder sidebar depending on your settings , but it should always appear in the folder . On Windows , in the system tray , there is an icon you can click to " Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media . " Right-click the icon , find the name of your iOS device , and click it to eject it . If it does not appear on this list , it is not mounted as a drive and you can simply unplug it .
end question
start question
iCloud Photo Library on Macbook Pro , where ?
iCloud Photo Library is available starting 2015 on OS X Until now , you have the chance to sync between iOS devices running both iOS 8 and have Photo Library activated . activate Photo stream and see your photos in iPhoto iCloud Photo Library is still Beta , and will come to the Mac in 2015 , and to the icloud.com as well .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
You are right to leave media in the original location to help save space . Beyond this setting , take a look at your Library 's settings . Manage Storage Locations Final Cut Pro is likely <URL> of your original media . By default , these temporary files are stored within your Final Cut Pro libraries . You can change the location of temporary files , see <URL> . When you finish working on a project , ask Final Cut Pro to delete all associated runtime created files : Final Cut Pro.app > File ( menu ) > Delete Generated Library Files ... <URL> This will dramatically reduce the file size of your library .
After select pinyin in your input language you can open any editor like textEdit : when you start typing you see the box ( like below box ) and can select your desire word .
To turn off iCloud Music Library on your mac , you need to go to : iTunes > Preferences > iCloud Music Library
This happens because the game is not widescreen enabled ( but 4:3 ) . This usually happens with ports of old games , from the times , when 4:3 ( or close to 4:3 ) resolutions were common ( like 640x480 , 800x600 , 1024x768 , 1280x1024 ) . Look for resolution settings in the game and change it to something closer to 16:10 and the black bars will be smaller .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Update : Apple now allows you to share your Photo Stream with others . More info on the official Photo Stream page <URL> At the moment no . The only way to access your stream is from a Lion Machine using either iPhoto or Aperture , or from another iOS 5.0 device with Photo Stream enabled . I am not entirely sure if Apple is going to allow a sharing portal , however at the moment I take the images I want to share and upload them to Flickr through iPhoto once they are in my Photo Stream . I suspect they currently use Photo Stream as a personal backup and sharing solution between devices , and not global sharing .
Unfortunately , the answer is no : When you turn on iCloud Photo Library on your iOS device or Mac , your photos and videos will upload after you connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi and your battery is charged . <URL> [ emphasis mine ]
The ~ / Library folder still exists , but it is hidden . You can easily unhide it by running the following command in Terminal ( / Applicatiions/Utilities ) : Note that you 'll have to do this again after each 10.7.X update ( credit to <URL> ) . If you want to reveal it on a per-use basis , you can get in by holding down option and clicking on the Finder 's Go menu . Or , you can use Go - > Go to Folder and type in the path . Or , you can open Terminal and type The app Lion Tweaks gives you an easy GUI way to change this setting , as well as other hidden Lion preferences .
If it just sits at the grey screen and the option boot or C boot does n't work , it is 98 % probable that your hard drive or hard drive cable have failed . Time to head to your local apple store .
After consulting AppleCare , I finally solved this issue perfectly . I post my solution here so that the future users may solve it easily when they reach Apple S.X. . Delete two files : and . Then do the NVRAM restarting to your MacBook to reset the audio settings . Detailed steps to do the NVRAM restarting is <URL> . Then , problem solved .
To enable a retina eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist . Just above Place this : Then , log out or make a copy of the app so that OS X will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
According to <URL> by Serenity Caldwell of iMore , there are three ways to share photos to all your family members . Use the " Family " album that is automatically created if you have Family Sharing turned on . Create a shared album . Use the same iCloud account for all family members . Nevertheless , there does n't seem to be a way to automatically share all your photos to your family members . You will still need to copy photos into the share album . ( Unless you are all using the same iCloud account , which I did n't want to do , since each user already have their own active iCloud accounts . )
I have had a MacBook Pro since early 2007 , and the display is as bright and crisp as the day I bought it . I 've also had an iBook G4 since early 2005 and there 's no problem with its display , either . I doubt you 'll have any problems for quite awhile if at all , as newer models tend to have better displays then older models .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
You can use your thumb to click on the lower part of the track and the index finger to move . As long as you keep the trackpad pressed with the thumb you can release the index finger .
First of all , to remove any confusion , iCloud 's , and are two different things , and will behave differently . iCloud Photo Sharing From the <URL> : How many photos and videos can be stored in a shared album ? A shared album can hold a maximum of 5000 photos and videos combined . When you reach your limit , you must delete some photos or videos before adding new ones . My Photo Stream Limits Uploads to My Photo Stream per month : 25,000 photos Also note that photos are automatically deleted from your photostream after 30 days .
It 's likely that you are running something in the background ( such as Skype ) which is triggering your dedicated graphics card , despite it not actually doing anything graphically intensive . This is a known issue in Apple 's graphics card switching technology . Download and run <URL> and see if I 'm right . If so , close the problematic program or use gfxCardStatus to manually switch to the much lower-powered integrated chip . You should get longer battery life after that ; I have n't directly measured it but I know I get at least 30 minutes to an hour of extra life . And of course it also depends on what you 're doing with your computer , what background programs are running , the brightness of your screen , etc. .
end question
start question
Is there a way to specify that a certain app always stay in memory ?
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
I use iSSH : <URL> It 's available on the app store , but if you 're jailbroken you can ssh to 127.0.0.1 and it works just fine . Costs $ 10 though .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
The frame that 's used is called the " Poster Frame " . It looks like iTunes chooses a frame 10 seconds into the video by default . To choose a specific frame as the cover art : Start playing the video . Pause the video on the frame you want to use . Right-click on the video and choose " Set Poster Frame " .
In OS X 10.11 the default under System Preferences > Mission Control for the Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is checked . So to not have your Spaces rearranged on you , uncheck the checkbox for that setting . <URL> To have an App tied to a particular Desktop , open the target App on that Desktop , then control-click ( right-click ) the target App 's Dock Tile and select : Options > Assign To > This Desktop <URL> To have an App launch automatically upon Login , go to System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > select the User > click Login Items and add the App . <URL>
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
Yes , it is possible , however the only way I know of doing it also hides the dock icon . you must modify the file named ' Info.plist ' inside the Application 's package ( i.e. Sherlock.app / Contents/Info . plist ) . Open this file in your favorite text editor and add the following section ( if it 's already present simply change the 0 to a 1 in the string tag : <URL> In OS X 10.8 + , use this instead ( note LS instead of NS ) :
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
The Dock height is delineated by the size of the icons on the Dock , called the tilesize . To calculate the tilesize for a Dock height of 40 pixels ( 80 pixels on my Retina display ) : You can set the tilesize with the following command , replacing ' 29 ' with the size of icon you desire .
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
Regarding your comment on Paul 's answer , wanting to leave your computer for a moment : you have to lock your computer . Period . Open System Preferences , click Security ( top row , second to last option ) , under the " General " tab , check the box for " Require password [ immediately ] after sleep or screen saver begins " . Then , when you go to walk away from your computer ; <URL> ( Additional notes : Click the above line . ) Lock your Mac . Walk away . Come back , enter your password to unlock it . Secured console .
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
You can hide it from from Finder by setting the hidden flag with Terminal and if you want to remove the flag
Yes there is ! <URL> does exactly this . It is a US$ 3 app for iPhone ( also works on iPad , it 's a universal app , no separate purchase ) . Just to avoid even the appearance of impropriety , let me state that CaptureAudio is a past-sponsor of a podcast that I do . That being said , their sponsorship slot is over and has nothing to do with me posting this here . It just so happens to be an app that I know which does the exact thing requested . Usage is very simple , start recording and you get a big button on your iPhone . Tap it , and a marker/bookmark/notation is added to the recording . You can even create different kinds of bookmarks , and each one has different symbols attached to it . Screenshot from <URL> When you are listening back later on , tapping one of those marker/bookmarks will jump right to the spot where you recorded it . ( You can see screenshots of that on the website . ) Actually I think it 's even smart enough to jump back a little before the marker , which is good because you probably did n't realize you need to mark something until after it was said ! The app also backs up to Dropbox , which is nice , but I have n't actually used that feature , I 've just done everything on the iPhone . When listening back to long recordings ( over an hour ) , the app does tend to crash sometimes , but this is only on playback not while recording which would obviously be a deal-breaker . I assume that crash is probably related to the iPhone running out of memory , but IANADeveloper , so that 's just a guess .
I use the MyFitnessPal app when on my iPhone and I use their website when on my Macbook Pro and find them to be easy to use . They do list the foods you 're mentioning on their website here ( the list is enormous , look around ) : <URL> I 'm in the USA so make sure they have the foods you want before signing up / buying the iPhone app .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
end question
start question
Can I restore a Snow Leopard backup onto a Lion machine ?
It 's not complicated at all . I ca n't point to a current Lion Apple support doc but I just moved my old snow leopard time machine backup to my new Lion install . Simply launch Migration Assistant , select your Time Machine backup and select which settings and users to copy . It does n't care that your backup is a Snow Leopard backup . For more information here is an article about how to use Migration Assistant in Snow Leopard . It is virtually the same in Lion . <URL>
Short answer : no . The i7 in the new 2011 Server model does n't support anything less than pretty much the original OS . Sorry dude . I wanted to do the exact same thing .
It all depends on how each app is developed . It 's a safe bet that Apple would implement this feature on most of the apps included in OS X as well as the iWork and iLife apps . I would argue that another question just as important is which third-party apps have this feature . Not every third-party app that runs on Snow Leopard has Resume automatically when executed in Lion . This is a case-by-case situation , on which third-party app developers have to modify how their apps handle individual documents . Sometimes they have to make minor modifications , sometimes it may involve more complicated changes . The same goes for all the other major document management features in Lion ( such as Versions ) . Hope this helps .
Yes , this is possible . The backups themselves contain <URL> that is n't particularly version-specific ( with the exception of <URL> , as pointed out by hobs above ) . In fact , I had to do this exact process recently , going from 4.2.1 to an iOS 5.0 gold master on an iPhone using a backup , and it went off without a hitch . Developers who want to install a prerelease OS version must put their devices in recovery mode , clean install the OS , then restore application data and settings from a backup . I did this for my iPhone , which I had n't upgraded to the latest 4.x OS , and everything came across cleanly to iOS 5.0 . The one thing to watch out for is that if you do n't encrypt your backups ( by selecting the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option in iTunes ) , your device 's keychain will not be transferred to the new device . For non-encrypted backups , the keychain is only preserved when restoring onto the same device you backed up from .
If you have an old AppleTV it may be <URL> , but to me it seems a bit like a hack . And I would n't be at all surprised if the license does n't allow it . Your Snow Leopard license is probably an upgrade license for Leopard ( Apple does n't sell hardware without OS , so they only sell upgrade licenses I think ) , and I doubt the Apple TV runs the default version of Leopard . If you can install Snow Leopard then do n't use updates , as the kernel needs to be replaced :)
You shouldnt need to buy it as it is included as part of the iLife suite which comes with all Macs . From : <URL> Insert the Applications installation disc and double-click the Install Bundled Software icon . If your computer came with an iLife installation disc , or you purchased a newer version of iLife , insert that disc instead . Follow the onscreen instructions . Then , in the Installation Type pane , click Customize . Click the disclosure triangle next to Bundled Applications , select the checkbox next to the application you want to install , then click Install .
Yes - if you have n't excluded the folder from the Time Machine backups . As for system patches - you 're installing a new OS . Once you finish , load up the Software Update and it 'll pull down the most recent Combo Update for you . Actually , it 's better to use the combo update than a collection of patches you would have otherwise . For more on this go to System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Time Machine & #x 2192 ; Options . It 'll tell you what , if anything , you 've excluded . No . As long as you have sufficient space , you 'll be fine . It does n't need to be an identical drive .
It might be easier to connect the machines on a network and use rsync , nfs or ftp to copy data , no extra software would be needed . If you want to do this you will need <URL> which allows OSX to read other file systems . A tutorial for ext3 is on this <URL> .
Zeroing out the drive is typically done for security purposes , but there is also another benefit to zeroing out an SSD - performance . The firmware of an SSD does a lot of complicated tricks to increase disk performance and reliability , but they become less effective the more data the drive has to retain . Since deleting a file or reformatting a disk does not actually turn the bits on the disk back to zero , the drive firmware must still manage that data . If you zero out the drive , you allow the firmware to stop managing all that data and in turn it 's able to offer better performance on the data that you have .
First off he 's wrong on all levels . The <URL> is $ 29 , the <URL> is $ 500 . A standard <URL> is $ 700 base . <URL> is $ 1000 base . Second , the distributions are pretty much identical . The difference is that the Server Version ships the server applications , tools , and processes . Postfix , Dovecot , Jabberd2 , OpenLDAP , the entirety of the / Applications/Server directory , and some of the things in / Applications/Utilites like XSan management and the RAID Utility . If he 's looking to do development for iOS , getting the server version makes no sense . If he 's looking to do development for Web Services , it 's still easier and cheaper to run it on the Desktop version . If he 's looking to run a server , trivially , for mail services , chat and calendaring services , MORE than just web services ( web services are trivially easy on the Desktop Version ) , then he should get a MacMini Server . Use a Server for a Server for the features it provides , otherwise , use a standard version . [ edit ] We have two versions of XServes , and two Mac Mini Servers ( classic style body ) , I 'd be glad to answer any additional questions you or your friend has .
Booting from an install media such as a Snow Leopard install DVD will not boot to your desktop . Instead , it will boot to the OS installed on the disc and whilst this is OS X , there 's no Finder for you to move files around . However , the disc does come with Terminal and you can use it to copy your files to somewhere else , another disk , etc. . There are numerous tools that you can use in Terminal to copy files , but for individual files/folders as mentioned in your question you can simply to copy them . Then , using the disc , reinstall Snow Leopard and copy your files back once booted back ( using the now-available Finder ) .
Install of python modules goes in x/Library/FrameworksPython . framework/Versions/2 .6 etc where x depends on the install . nothing for the one from Apple as port of OSX . python executable in / usr/bin nothing for pythons from python.org . python executable in / usr/local/bin / opt/local if installed via macports ( as I do ) You have to look at easy_install etc to see the path to the python they use . e.g. / usr/bin/easy _ install has / usr/bin/python so using this will install in / Library/FrameworksPython . framework/Versions/2 .6 . You can not choose to run under a minor version of python e.g. 2.7.2 as only one major version at a time is set up normally e.g. 2.7.2 replaced 2.7.1 Each major version of python will have its own executable e.g. python2 .7 s to have a script use that verstio make it begin with pr the full path .
Time Machine backs up everything and restores everything . When Time Machine backs up , it first copies all of the files exactly from your hard drive ( and any other disks ) to your chosen backup disk . Nothing is excluded unless explicitly specified . This answers your question concerning losing your Python modules . After first backup , Time Machine hard links your files to another backup folder named by time and date . This means that it creates a duplicate of all of the files it created on first backup to the next backup without taking up more space . It 's a lot like an alias or shortcut , but the difference between the original and a hard linked file is indistinguishable in Finder . Therefore , it efficiently changes all the files that were actually changed since first backup . Using Command-R to bring up Disk Utility from Recovery options , formatting the disk , and restoring from Time Machine was painless and I did not lose a single file . Since it copies all files exactly , it will transfer your " corrupt " Office files to the new drive . However , you can select Repair Disk to clear up any issues with permission errors , etc. . But , honestly , I do n't think that it 's worth restoring from Time Machine unless you 've tried <URL> .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
You can do this -- just configure the Ubuntu virtual machine with a static IP . The choice of IP will depend on the network you 're connecting to ... You did n't mention if you were using a NAT or Bridged connection , and the choice of IP will different based on that . I can provide specific instructions if you like , but , they 'll be all things you do within the Ubuntu VM , not within the Mac environment . ( So you may find better luck asking on <URL> or <URL> ) You could also install the " avahi-daemon " package in Ubuntu and then you wo n't need to remember the VM 's IP address , you can use as if it were a Mac with Bonjour . EDIT : I see you 're using a NAT interface . I typed up a long list of instructions only got get stuck on the final step . I 'll do more research into this , but in the meantime , <URL> , but might work on the Mac side ... Here 's incomplete instructions , I will finish them up shortly : VMware Susion starts assigning IPs via DHCP at ( at least on my machine ) . The first three octets of the IPs are defined by a network probe which happened when you installed VMware , so you 'll want to determine what network VMware chose for you , and then choose an IP underneath the range VMware assigns via DHCP to avoid conflicts : Determine what network VMware chose : In the Ubuntu Virtual Machine , choose . In the window that appears , under " Network Device " , choose " Ethernet Interface ( eth0 ) " . In the list below , look for " IPv4 " . Look at the IP address in the right hand column , and make note of the first three octets ( numbers between the dots ) . On my machine , this is : Choose a new static IP : You can make up any number from 2 to 127 which will be appended to the network from step 1 , as long as it does n't conflict with any other static IPs you have assigned . Let 's say you choose 15 , because I like the number 15 . In my example your static IP would then be . Configure Ubuntu to use a static IP : Go to in the Ubuntu VM . Under " Wired " choose " Auto eth0 " and click " edit " . Go to " IPv4 Settings " and set " Method : " to " Manual " . Next to " Addresses " , click the " Add " button . In the new row that appears , under " Address " , enter the IP you close ( in my example ) . Under Netmask , enter . Under gateway , enter the first three octets of your IP , followed by . ( In my example , the gateway would be ) . Under DNS Servers , enter ... oh , crap , this is being provided by DHCP . Let me figure out a way to make this work
It is not possible to browse the App Store . But if you have a link , such as <URL> , then you can view the app description in your browser .
You say the MacBook is empty - does this not have any Mac OS on it ? To install from a USB or HDD you will need to open disk utility and from there select the restore option of the dvd with the hard drive or USB as destination , so if it does not have disc utility then no you ca n't , you will need to write a CD/DVD .
Option-Command-Eject is the system-standard key to put the machine to sleep . If you want to do more than sleep , you can use this preference pane to fine-tune the sleep or hibernate behavior : <URL> Edit : More information about sleep , hibernate , and more on the Mac : <URL>
The App Store only distributes one version of each app . Xcode 4.0 is no longer available as Xcode 4.1 replaced it . If the author of the software wishes to keep an older version on the store , the new version has to be uploaded as a different sellable item . In this case , Apple did n't choose to leave both . You can <URL> by joining the paid developer programs . Last time I checked , Xcode 3 was available with the <URL> . It runs on Snow Leopard - but it does n't look like you can buy Xcode 4.0 anymore without a paid developer account - it might not even be available to the developers - you might ask before paying money if you really need 4.0 and only 4.0 .
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
end question
start question
Can I disable macOS Sierra 's sticky window edges ?
Hold down option when dragging . Will disable " sticky " edges as needed , when needed , without disabling it all the time by default .
Try pressing C when booting . It might help you get pass safe-boot . or you can try using a key remapping app . Resources : <URL> <URL> .
When you do n't have the external hard drive hooked up , go System Preferences >> Time Machine , and switch it to OFF . You will still be able to perform backups , it just wo n't happen automatically . This is the technique that I use , and I do n't see notifications .
Disabling that feature will result in a text-only message accompanying the message where the effect was sent stating , e.g. ( sent with Slam Effect ) This replaces the effect being generated .
The Photos Timeline view is sorted by the date embedded in the photo , not by date added . All other views are also sorted by the date of the photo except the All Photos album , which is date added . You ca n't change the sort view of any of the application created albums . The last import view shows only the last import , and does not include photos from PhotoStream . Work around : you can create a smart album and it gives a variety of ways to sort the photos in the new smart album ( date range , title , keyword , etc )
You might be able to remove Apple 's Color Emoji font , but you can not remove it with FontBook . Instead , go to / System/Library/Fonts / and drag " Apple Color Emoji.ttf " to the Trash . You must authenticate yourself as an administrator to do this . I have n't tested this , and I do n't know if your computer will catch fire .
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
Workaround # 2 My preferred solution uses applescript to access " Downloads.plist " directly ( no shell scripting ) , and places a link in Safari 's favorites bar for your convenience . First you save these scripts into " ~ / Library/Scripts/Folder action scripts / " folder , next you attach them ( context menu : configure folder actions ) to a new " Folder1 " somewhere deep down on your Mac . To activate them , you will address a ( meaningless ) dummy " Folder2 " inside " Folder1 " thru this bookmark : Now , what 's happening : - The clicked-on toolbar link will open " Folder1 " because the called upon " Folder2 " is inside . - Thus BOTH attached scripts are launched , # -1 closing the bookmarked " Folder2 " window ... - ... next ordering " System Events " to get all of Safari 's " DownloadEntryPath " items . - These paths are shortened to name plus parent-folder and collected into a " dialog alert " . - ( Waiting for " dialog window " :) # -2 script immediately on pop-up moves it to the top-right . If you attach this 2nd " folder action script " , it 'll move the " dialog " to the right/top of your screen : The only drawback to this solution IMO is , that for a moment each the opened folder and the alert " flash " over your screen ...
Typing in Terminal will open the current working directory in a Finder window .
Disabling Handoff is currently the only way to disable Universal Clipboard . Mac : Go to System Preferences > General > uncheck Allow Handoff iPhone : Go to Settings > General > Handoff > uncheck Handoff Just so you know , Handoff uses a secure communication channel to transfer information between devices signed into the same Apple ID . Data does not travel to Apple 's servers or even over the internet . Devices advertise availability to each other via Bluetooth and data is transmitted over Wi-Fi , but only on the local network .
The short answer is no . The long answer is wipe the device and then start over . If you have a backup , hopefully it 's from before the restrictions were set .
The <URL> : Late 2009 : MacBook ( MacBook6 ,1 ) Late 2009 : iMac ( 21.5 " iMac10 ,1 , 27 " iMac10 ,1 and iMac 10,2 ) Mid 2010 : MacBook Pro ( 13 " MacBookPro7 ,1 , 15 " MacBookPro6 ,2 , 17 " MacBookPro6 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac mini ( Macmini4 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac Pro ( MacPro5 ,1 ) Late 2010 : MacBook Air ( 11 " MacBookAir3 ,1 , 13 " MacBookAir3 ,2 ) All later models are unquestionably compatible . A public list ( on <URL> ) is not available yet , but a list may be available in the <URL> ( Developer Only ) . For the Developer Preview : Registered Developers can access in for a full list of officially supported Mac board-ids . It may be possible to install on some unsupported hardware through <URL> , <URL> , or other methods .
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
To get the second window back , all you have to do is click the album artwork thumbnail in the Now Playing area , either in the full version : Or in the Mini Player Both will pop up the larger album art view you are looking for . In iTunes 11.0 , there currently is n't the sidebar album art view that used to be there .
I you are looking mainly for annotation then <URL> could be worth a look . It lacks the more fancy features you asked for ( torn edges , blur , etc. ) but for basic annotation ( arrows , text , freehand ) it is quite good . Although it was acquired by Evernote it is possible to save the annotated image back to the camera roll .
Go to System Preferences → Mission Control and make sure that the checkbox for Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is disabled . I am able to reproduce your scenario perfectly with this checkbox enabled and disabling this checkbox causes the spaces to be fixed in their position regardless of the switching of window position .
In the past - Apple had three methods to install : erase and install ( now deprecated ) archive + install + migrate upgrade install ( now deprecated ) Now , when you run the installer - it is always archive , install , migrate . SO the existing system folder is n't touched ( it gets archived ) and a new system folder and library are created on the drive . So some folders get erased entirely , some have modification scripts and most user folders do n't change . The user folders might get a light script run to clean known issues , but in general - the things in the user home folder are left alone . The system then reboots into the newly functioning system to run further installations and then kicks off the migration script . That script is responsible for the <URL> where it actually goes over each user folder and migrates all the apps , settings and checks for known incompatible software and packages so they can be disabled before any user logs in to the newly made system . The whole process usually takes 5 to 25 minutes for the system tasks and then the last user step can take a few moments or a few hours in my experience . Past an hour , it is usually hung and you might need to do an erase / migration from backup . <URL> The old system is then deleted unless the script detects a potential that it will be needed or the migration failed in some manner . I you wan to do an erase instal , you need to erase the drive using internet recovery , target disk mode or similar and then run an installer on a blank volume .
I believe this is what you are looking for : Go to the menu item Outlook - > Turn Off Office Reminders
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
Usually apps do n't place themselves in the dock without your consent or knowledge . There are a couple ways to put them there though . Perhaps you may not realize it , but it may be one of these reasons : The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon installation . Note : Lion will not do this though ; it simply places it in Launchpad . The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon updating an app . Note : Updating an non-docked app individually via the updates tab is when it gets re-placed in the dock . However using the ' Update All ' button at the top of the page will not do any such thing . Again , this is changed in Lion . If you run an app that is not kept in the dock and drag it to another position anywhere on the dock , it will stay in the dock Drag an app into the dock from Finder Right click an app in the dock an under options select ' Keep in Dock '
end question
start question
Does the coupons.com printing uninstaller leave anything behind ?
I do n't really know specifically about the " coupons.com " printing software , but there are some ways to find out if there are some things left behind by the software . These are the best places to look : Macintosh HD/Applications / Macintosh HD/Library/Internet Plug-Ins ~ / Library/Application Support / ~ / Library/Caches / ~ / Library/Containers / ~ / Library/Logs ( These are just text logs . No real trace ) ~ / Library/Preferences / ~ / Library/Printers / If you need something more user-friendly or automatized , try the " CleanMyMac " app . PD : The fact that it needs to quit your browsers it 's actually a good thing . It might be removing plugins or extensions .
I do n't really know specifically about the " coupons.com " printing software , but there are some ways to find out if there are some things left behind by the software . These are the best places to look : Macintosh HD/Applications / Macintosh HD/Library/Internet Plug-Ins ~ / Library/Application Support / ~ / Library/Caches / ~ / Library/Containers / ~ / Library/Logs ( These are just text logs . No real trace ) ~ / Library/Preferences / ~ / Library/Printers / If you need something more user-friendly or automatized , try the " CleanMyMac " app . PD : The fact that it needs to quit your browsers it 's actually a good thing . It might be removing plugins or extensions .
iTunes connect is shut down for the holidays . Just because there are new posting on appreviewtimes.com does n't necessarily mean the apps were just reviewed . Could be from the weekend .
There are a number of methods an app can use to uniquely identify a device or user . Transitory ( persistent whilst app is installed ) Unique identifier generated by the app and saved in a property list or other equivalent storage in the app sandbox 's Library or Documents folder . Hashed login or equivalent to determine user . CFUUID ( <URL> ) identifierForVendor ( <URL> ) Permanent MAC address of device ( not recommended by Apple for these purposes ) . Advertising Identifier ( can be reset in Settings ; <URL> ) . Depreciated UDID ( <URL> )
The temperature shown does come from the Weather App . Small bits of data on the watch face are known as complications . Tapping the temperature on the watch face will open the Weather app thus revealing the source of the data . The watch gets the data from your iPhone which , in turn , uses location and data from the Internet . You may find more useful information in the <URL> .
The only devices with Voice Control of any form , whether pre-iOS 5 " Voice Command " or iOS 5 + " Siri " , is an iPhone 3GS or later , and the 4th Generation iPod touch . All iPhones since the 3GS and iOS 3 ( IIRC ) have Voice Command . iPhone 4/4S ' on iOS 5 or later have Siri , unless disabled then Voice Command is used instead . iPod touches do not have Siri , though the fourth generation does have Voice Command . No iPad has Voice Command nor Siri . This is true of all models and iOS versions as of this writing .
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
You can do this with Markdown.pl and htmldoc ( 1 ) , both of which can be installed with <URL> . The basic flow for making a PDF is : As for your filename-per-page , you coul incorporate echo to add it as an HTML element : And for printing , the lpr ( 1 ) command will send a file to your default printer . Tying this altogether :
Autofocus on the iPhone is done via an electrical motor , moving the front lens backward and forward , and software that captures and analyses the image for best sharpness , which usually is the " sweet " spot . Recent versions of iOS probably offload the analysis to the <URL> available since the Apple A5 chip .
I used to work as an Apple Hardware Technician , and the biggest non-damage related issue I 've seen with those machines is usually the battery ( which is not technically user-replaceable ) . I 'd make sure that it runs for at least 3-4 hours on a full charge . Also make sure that the optical drive works , because I 've seen a number of those go out , as well , but that can be said for any notebook computer . You will also want to check for the normal stuff : Impact to the casing , cracked screen , liquid damage , etc. . That seems like a pretty good deal , however . It looks like the average price on eBay is around $ 600 , and that machine will have plenty of power for your purposes . Heck , I still do development on a 2009 Macbook and it works great . For future reference , you can always find a listing of the open repair extensions ( which are basically known-issues ) at <URL> .
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
Although there is some very tiny overhead tracking the views of 4 or 9 windows - and your graphic card may be stretched to render more than X items at once - so it feels slower and renders slower animating the in/out of the spaces . As far as the apps and the system - each window that is running simply gets coordinates . If it 's marked on screen 1 and offset X and Y or no screen and X and Y - the system does no extra work . Each window must be tracked and only windows that are somehow visible get refreshed . Spaces adds no extra work or saves any work as far as the application is concerned . If you tend to open more apps due to spaces organizing them - that will slow the machine down - but it 's not inherent that spaces makes anything on the system or app level slower other than an added graphics drain to animate the changes . When you are not switching - it 's probably faster since fewer windows have to draw into active viewports if you have less " on screen " at one point in time .
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
As with the iPhone , if you shake the iPad vigorously , you get offered the choice of : Undo Cancel For me , this does n't feel at all natural on the iPad , and I imagine that 's why some iPad applications ( e.g. Textastic ) provide their own Undo/Redo buttons . Edit Thanks to @Lizzan for also pointing out in the comments : There 's also an Undo button in the bottom left on the numerical keyboard - makes a bit more sense than shaking the iPad .
According to <URL> , " I know the original locations are stored in ~ / . Trash / . DS_Store " . is the name of the file that stores various Finder-related information . Following that question , there is also <URL> and <URL> , which do n't quite look like duplicates but talk about some of the details a bit more .
natd should be runnng ... NAT means <URL> , so it 's basically translating ( communicating ) between the Modem and the Wifi Access Point to share your connection . You can read more about it here , <URL> So in short this needs to run to share your connection , Hope this helps . Karl
It does n't access the phone hardware directly . Instead , you enter the number and Google 's servers call the number entered and simultaneously calls your iPhone on it 's number . Merging those two calls happens in google 's servers , putting both you and your recipient in communication through their hardware .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
end question
start question
What is " ss_conn_service " running on OS X ?
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
Apple has just announced OSX Mountain Lion which incorporates iMessage into the OS in the form of the Messages app . This will work in the same was as iMessage for iOS . <URL> You can currently <URL>
Zenmap can Absolutely provide NetBIOS names ( the names you are referring to ) . Furthermore , you can tweak the nMap scan to only scan for up IP addresses , and NetBIOS details , which should really significantly reduce the scan duration . Furthermore , it should , if you are willing to fall back to the terminal , be possible to make it update pretty rapidly , maybe every ~ 30 seconds . For example , with the Zenmap command of : Note : I use the IP prefix . in your case , this will likely be The is the netmask . In this case , it causes nMap to scan everything from - . To use , you just paste the line above into the " Command " entry box in Zenmap Here is a scan of my LAN : As you can see , it has resolved the information for all computers on my LAN that are reporting NetBIOS information . It also did all the above in ~ 9.4 seconds . I did this on my windows computer because my mac ( Apparently appropriately named iCrap , as you can see in the scan results ) is freaking out at the moment , and I can not restart it because I have some big file transfers in process . Nmap is platform agnostic , so the platform on which you do this scan should not matter . I did test this on the mac from the command line only , and it worked fine there too ( well , it did trip the flood protection on my managed switch , but that 's another issue ) . I 've edited the MAC address out from the scan . I can add more information on how to set this up to scan continuously from the command line , if you would like . You can see more information on the script that I am using to query NetBIOS information <URL> . The nmap <URL> is also very useful , for understanding what is going on .
On Apple hardware , yes - <URL> . Otherwise , no - it 's a violation of the EULA .
Before OS X 10.10 , you can run to re-sign the app with an ad-hoc signature . In order to re-sign it in 10.10 , you need to additionally specify the -- deep command to re-sign bootcamp : ' -- deep ' When signing a bundle , specifies that nested code content such as helpers , frameworks , and plug-ins , should be recursively signed in turn . Beware that all signing options you specify will apply , in turn , to such nested content . When verifying a bundle , specifies that any nested code content will be recursively verified as to its full content . By default , verification of nested content is limited to a shallow investigation that may not detect changes to the nested code . When displaying a signature , specifies that a list of directly nested code should be written to the display output . This lists only code directly nested within the subject ; anything nested indirectly will require recursive application of the codesign command .
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
The standard way of approaching these terms is to say that an " application " is a specific , static program on storage . It 's some piece of code stored on a hard drive , a CD-ROM or elsewhere . A " process " on the other hand is a specific instance of a running program . I.e. it is registered by the operating system as executing or being able to execute whenever the operating system feels like it . If you take for example Calculator.app , it is a single application . However you can have multiple Calculator processes if you start the program multiple times . As chananelb wrote , it is also possible to have processes which are not " just " ordinary applications that have been started up . That could be for example kernel processes , or simply ordinary processes spawning up subprocesses to do specific tasks . Regarding services , I chananelb 's answer leads you in the wrong direction . His answer tells you about what is called a " Service " in Mac OS X. . . but you asked about what is called a " Service " in Windows . The counterpart to a Windows Service is a Daemon on Mac OS X ( and other Unix-derived systems ) . Daemons are normally categorized by running in the " background " , i.e. without direct user interaction through a graphical or non-graphical user interface . The distinction is a bit blurry though , as a Daemon might for example have a web interface for user interaction . Daemons on Mac OS X are controlled by the launchd program , which is responsible for for example starting up daemons on boot , and letting the user start and stop daemons at request .
As in all the Unix system , there are two type of folder . One specific for the user and the other for the entire system and so all the users of the machine . In particular for OS X : the Macintosh HD version is the actual computer Library , while , the home folder version is specific to your user account . Here an example to help you understand how to use it : is a place to store fonts , screen savers , Dashboard widgets , and all other things that all local users need access to . is for your own user account only ( cache and preference files , widgets for your use only , etc ) . EDIT : taken from <URL> , a complete overview of all the possible library folders in a Mac OS X system : The user library , ~ / Library , stores per-user settings etc. . The local library , / Library , stores computer-wide settings etc. . I call this the " local " library , because in NextStep it was / Local/Library , but you 'll see all sorts of other names for it , such as the root library , computer library , ... The network library , / Network/Library would store settings shared by all computers in a network domain -- if a network domain admin set one up , which nobody does anymore ... The system library , / System/Library , stores the base settings , resources , etc that come with OS X . In theory , you should n't change anything in here .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
The default domain name for new Apple ID 's ( or iCloud accounts ) is . You can also use .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
Yes , you can . In Xcode , you can set archive for iOS Device even if you have n't got an iOS Device ( this is instead of " Simulator " ) and upload this binary to iTunes Connect perfectly fine .
If money is n't an issue , or one that you can wrestle with , then I do n't think there is really any better tool for this than <URL> . It does n't come with interface elements by default , but there is a freely-available extensive library of options on their site <URL> .
If in terminal , one could type which opens a Finder window for the root ( similar to what @ <URL> ) . You could also drag the volume 's icon to the Finder 's sidebar for quick access later on . Or you could drag it to the Dock .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
In a word , no . If you are concerned with the contents of your machine being compromised should the machine be stolen a better bet may be to encrypt your drive with FileVault ( assuming you are or intend to upgrade to using Lion ) . Even if the firmware passwords was irreversible , it would not stop someone simply taking your disk out and reading another way . The only benefit I can see is preventing a theif from being able to ever use the mcahine he just stole , but frankly this wo n't help stop your laptop from being stolen in the first place , although it probably would result in it getting binned if it was , rather than re-used and potentially identified at a later date via it 's serial number etc. .
end question
start question
How to put a Macbook Air into " Target Disk Mode " ?
<URL> is not supported on Macbook Air that lack a true Thunderbolt port . The <URL> is purely a video out port , and can not be used for data transfer , despite the identical connector . The only supported option for transferring data between two Macbook Air , using a wired connection , using Migration Assistant , is through ethernet . Since both models of the Macbook Air do not have an ethernet port , you will need to purchase the <URL> for the older model Macbook Air which does not have a Thunderbolt port , and an <URL> for the newer model which supports Thunderbolt . If you do not want to purchase the adapters , you could migrate the data off the Air using file sharing or have the Mac opened by a service technician to remove the storage and assist with a converter or another Air to house the drive while it 's being accessed . By deleting all files that are non-essential you can speed up the time of transfer , but the USB to ethernet adapter is 100MB speed and likely the fastest you could transfer files . Wireless network would be slower in almost all cases than a direct connection and neither would be as fast as a target mode Firewire or Thunderbolt transfer sadly .
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
Note : with the release of iOS 9 you can now pull New York Times and other apps from Newsstand . What you ask is n't possible on stock iOS 7 . Newstand subscriptions are not treated as full fledged apps or Safari bookmarks that can be placed arbitrarily on the springboard .
I would say that the only damage caused by a cigarette to the aluminum itself would be cosmetic . Clearly , the pebbled surface will trap nicotine and ash on the Aluminum . I suspect that Apple <URL> their unibody parts - and if so , that creates a hard , durable layer of aluminum oxide that protects the metal from scratches , stains , and further oxidation I also expect that action would drive most neat freaks up the proverbial wall , but from a chemical and heat aspect - a single lit cigarette does n't have enough heat to do any damage . It would slightly warm up a small area of the case but do no harm to the insides . Also , I 've seen solid aluminum ashtrays in use for tens of years in harsh environments with no real pitting or permanent damage to them . An internet search for " milled aluminum ashtray " or " milled aluminum engine block " will show that aluminum ( and aluminum alloys ) can stand up to substantial heat in diverse settings . I would be more concerned at the smoke , tar , nicotine getting inside the display and the Mac , corroding the circuit boards , covering contacts in ports and clogging the blowers over time . Tacky , messy , provoke a reaction in others ? - yes Damage the aluminum surface ? - not so much
Your MacBook Pro HDMI port is output only . So no , you can not use it as input for your recording . Your alternatives are USB 3 or Thunderbolt .
No , Apple is ditching optical media , even when the computer has an optical drive .
Erasing a hard drive with Recovery HD ( or better - a flash drive ) will remove everything . You do n't need to do a NVRAM/SMC reset ( you can if you 'd like )
Since the release of Mac OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) , there is no installer media . The OS is <URL> , and reinstalled from a <URL> that is created on the hard drive . Eventually , Apple will allow you to <URL> that contains the OS . For now , you can <URL> ( or burn a DVD ) . It is expected that your computer did n't come with a USB drive for the OS , and the other models no longer come with DVDs .
The most likely explanation is that your miniDP to VGA adapter is not an original/high-quality one . I 've seen it happen before , and as soon as that person bought an original Apple miniDP to VGA adapter the issue is gone and native resolution is recognized without any issue .
My information is second-hand , but another user at my company gave an strongly enthusiastic recommendation of a " NewerTech " USB to DVI adapter . Note that this will require use of their driver , but he has had no issues with it . It is available from <URL> .
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
The MBA comes with a recovery partition already installed . Reboot and keep CmdR pressed during boot until the Apple icon is displayed in screen . This boots into Recovery Mode allowing you to repair and/or reinstall the MBA from scratch . See <URL> for details .
The takeapart guide on iFixit sells replacement parts , but expect them to be pricey . The Air is a very , very delicate machine so be warned that getting it put back together takes more grace than getting it apart . Worst case , you could buy an entire display assembly if you feel you are doing more damage than good by proceeding with this repair . Three cables go into the Air 's display assemblyL Wi-Fi antenna Backlight power LVDS cable I presume you nicked the last one - it has the widest connector to the logic board . The real problem is getting inside the Air 's display assembly as I have n't seen that documented anywhere publicly available . That cable might be part of the LCD panel and might be something you could try to buy used from a liquid damaged or physically damaged Air . Here 's where the question lacks details to know why you were in there to begin . What part was being replaced that caused you to need a razor blade on this repair ? Are you going inside the display assembly in the first place ? Do n't rule out taking it in to the store in a static safe back with your tail between your legs . You will then know if they can fix it by quoting you an out of warranty part cost plus labor to fix things - both what was originally wrong and the things that have now gone not right .
Since you must boot Windows 7 from the internal SSD , and since you also want to run Mac OS X from the same volume , I recommend that you concentrate on cleaning out your existing Mac OS X system and freeing up as much disk space as possible . You should research on how to make the smallest Windows installation possible , so you can create the smallest BootCamp partition possible . From what I can see , you could do with as little as 12GB if you are meticulous . For instance , once Windows is installed , you can permanently disable and reduce or limit the size of , and this will save you many GB . I would also look into the differences between the size of the installation in Windows 7 32-bit versus 64-bit , and see if Windows 7 Ultimate takes up a great deal more space than Windows 7 Professional or Windows 7 Home Premium ( I suspect it does ) . You will want to refrain from installing any features of Windows that you decide you do n't need , and you will want to make sure that you do n't install any Windows applications that you do n't absolutely need . Here are some links to discussions I found . I can not vouch for any of these methods . <URL> at Tom 's Hardware <URL> at Microsoft TechNet There is a utility for reducing the size of a Windows installation before you actually install it . It is called <URL> . It is not exactly kosher and has its detractors . I have no personal experience with it . To use it , you need a working Windows system to configure a special custom installer DVD that vLite helps you create . <URL> , a discussion of the benefits of vLite and how many GB you can save . Regardless , you are going to have to wipe the internal drive on your MacBook Air and try different partitioning schemes , so you must have yet another a large external hard drive for making backups of the system you already have . Use <URL> or <URL> . On the Mac side , there is a lot you can do to reduce the size of your Mac OS X partition by removing components of Lion that you do not need . Make a complete backup disk image first before you start deleting things ! Similarly , it is possible to permanently delete the Mac OS X file , which will save you the same amount of disk space as the amount of RAM that you have . <URL> <URL> utility for controlling the sleepimage file Delete the contents of , which could be several GB , and when you restart your Mac , Lion will prompt you to download only the drivers for the printers you actually use . You should completely remove any applications in iLife that you do n't use , including all their support files in the / Library / folder . iDVD , GarageBand and iPhoto have many GB of support files , themes , templates , and audio files , and if you do n't use any one of those programs , you can clean out that disk space . Utilities such as <URL> can remove more than 1GB from your Mac OS X installation by removing all the files for languages ( Spanish , French , German , etc. ) that you will not use . Use <URL> or <URL> to examine your Mac OS X installation and look for user documents that you feel safe in archiving and removing , or deleting . There is an analogous freeware tool for Windows called <URL> .
You can . All you need is an app such as <URL> .
every few weeks ( 3 or 4 ) , disconnect the iPad and use it until you have about 50-75 % battery left , then charge/connect it again and your battery will not suffer at all .
I have tried this and can confirm it does not work . It works fine from OS X -- > OS X but not if the MacBook is running Windows .
end question
start question
What is the use of the bluetooth on iPad ?
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
There are teardown/repair guides at <URL> , they note where the chips and antennas are located . For example , in an iPhone 4S teardown , <URL> of the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth chip . There is a guide on <URL> - which is the <URL> . And there is also <URL> on fixing the wi-fi which provides the detailed photos and description . It appears that the Bluetooth antenna is located at the top of the 4S . The <URL> of the iPhone 6 teardown also states that the Apple fit the antenna on the top . So , iFixit has a lot of manuals and photos to provide . Also , they 've got a great community , so if you have any further questions , you can ask them instead .
The trouble is in the handling of JPEG2000 image files . Some solutions are offered <URL> . If this was your problem , it was solved with the release of iOS 5 . Those images should be viewable now .
If you 're using Windows , you 're basically locked into using iTunes to manage your content ; some people do n't like iTunes . Syncing non-media content is weird , too . There is n't a unified sync system . I sync calendar via Google Calendar , notes via SimpleNote , and general files with Dropbox . Some apps only sync with your computer over WiFi , which is a hassle for me at work where the wireless network is not set to permit this . Sync is really important for the iPod Touch because it 's nice to have a lot of your data at hand all the time , but it 's a pain to type it in manually because it 's so small . You ca n't easily update podcasts on the device . I could n't sync for one week one time and had to update each episode by finding it in the iTunes store . It 's really smooth , so if your hands are greasy it 's easy to drop . Mine has handled drops well . I 'm glad I use plastic screen protectors , though . These are the most potent drawbacks I could come up with . I have n't found any comparable devices that solve these problems any better , though . Non-phone smart devices that fit in your pocket that are n't iPod Touches basically do n't exist now ; there are some Android devices in the works . I 'm delighted by my iPod Touch and absolutely recommend the device .
The most popular IRC client on the Mac platform is undoubtedly <URL> ( free ) . It has a sleek interface and is extremely configurable . You can find others here : <URL>
It depends . The iPad ( 3rd Generation ) is slightly thicker than the iPad 2 , but there are reports that many cases designed for the 2 will work on the new model . Both of these iPads can use the smart cover technology too . Check with the case manufacturer or online forums to be check the compatibility of specific models . Update : It <URL> . Early smart covers may not work with iPad ( 3gen ) because Apple changed the polarity of the sleep sensor magnets at some point during the production run . The original iPad was the thickest of the lot and had no smart cover capability . Most cases ( if not all ) were not interchangeable between the newer models . Accessories should work unless they 're truly dimension critical or require a technology not present in a previous model . My inCase Origami case and the Apple Bluetooth Keyboard it protects continues to work with all iPad models , as do my car chargers , video adaptors and the Apple Camera Connection Kit . The OtterBox Defender case on my original iPad wo n't does n't work on newer models .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
I just checked the box for my iPad 2 . There is essentially nothing other than : a tiny card with minimal instructions . This tells you that there is further documentation at <URL> , along with information about needing to download iTunes , etc. . The obligatory " Important Product Information Guide " containing a whole lot of legal stuff . Some Apple stickers . So I think your best bet for information would be the <URL> linked in the other answer . A couple of photos of the card are shown below : Please note that this is from the iPad 2 so this may have changed since I bought mine . Although Apple has been moving towards less and less documentation over the years .
It depends slightly on what you mean by " highlighting text " . The PDF specification allows for highlighted text and some apps , such as GoodReader , do their highlighting by taking advantage of this . Other apps , such as iAnnotate and GoodNotes , work in a slightly different way . They consider the PDF as a background and then draw on top of it . If you draw with slightly transparent ink then you can create the effect of a highlighter pen . These two techniques are different : Proper highlighting . Main characteristics : it follows the text precisely and it goes under the text . The latter is a definite advantage , but the former can be irritating : if you have , for example , maths where the characters go above and below the line then the highlighting goes up and down as well . Overlaid highlighting . Main characteristics : it is not constrained to follow the text and it goes over the text . This means that it is much more like a real highlighter pen on paper and so you can highlight absolutely anything on the page . I use GoodReader , iAnnotate , and GoodNotes and like them all . GoodReader does " proper " highlighting whilst the other two do the " overlay " type ( GoodReader can do overlayed highlighting if you choose the pen correctly ) . I find the overlay type fits better with my reading ( but I am a mathematician ) , but GoodReader has various other benefits that make it the better choice for reading PDFs for me . ( I often have GoodReader and GoodNotes open as " adjacent " apps so that I can flip between reading a PDF and writing my ideas . )
It 's located in the Resources folder inside Mail.app . Assuming you 've left Mail.app in its default installed location , the path is :
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
The font used in the Console.app on macOS Sierra is the font . This can be found in More versions can be found in Xcode8 directories for example here :
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
You are correct . The signals from the two microphones are used , in conjunction with the Mac 's built-in digital signal processing software , to cancel background noise for a person speaking into the microphones , for use in webcame programs like Messages and Skype . The signal thus generated is monaural ; the two microphones can not be used for stereo recording .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
Apple will register a device to anyone who presents it for service . It does n't mean some database does n't still remember to whom it was sold or registered in the past , but in practice it does n't matter since possession is all that matters . As to paying for AppleCare , you should get it in the country where you live if at all possible . That ensures you do n't have to ship the device elsewhere if asked to do so . The plans are customized for the laws of each country - and in some cases , customized for states or provinces as needed within a country . Assuming the device was purchased from the US - you should also be fine buying AppleCare from the US store . Again , the warranty and service are valid worldwide , but in some cases , you will be responsible for shipping it to the country of purchase / AppleCare in cases where local service is not readily available .
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
I am 99.9 % sure that the choice is Door # 3 ( Door # 4 is the other ) .
The next step to do is to wipe/reformat one 's disk and do a clean install of Lion . This is radical , and I was hoping there would be a more nimble set of steps . Ask me in a while if you 'd like to know whether it has at least helped .
end question
start question
Can I change the locale for a single application ?
You can add an AppleLanguages array to the plist of an application : See for the language identifiers . <URL> is a GUI for doing the same thing .
If you 're still looking for a method to darken your UI in Yosemite , download Flavours 2 and choose the " Smooth Criminal " flavour . Flavours 2 is still in Beta , but most things look great with this skin .
Change the default calendar to " last selected calendar " then clicking a calendar via the " Calendar " button pop-over will actually set the currently active calendar for new events .
You can do this from the dock . Switch to the space you want to pin your app to , then access the options menu from its dock icon :
You can use the Automator workflows . Choosing PDF on the left and then dragging the action " Set PDF metadata " ( or something similar , my version is in Italian ) on the right part of the Automator window you can put author , title and whatever in one or multiple PDF files . Issues and workarounds : if you update the metadata directly on your PDFs in the iBooks folder it will not update iBooks , so you wo n't see any change . I suggest to copy your PDFs on you desktop , erase the PDFs from iBooks , use Automator to add the metadata and then re-import ( drag and drop is useful here ) the books in your iBooks . I have just finished updating my files , you ca n't go wrong ;)
The following article may help your problem . :) <URL> : By default , Mac OS X will simply give you a shell when you perform a Single User Mode startup . However , you can force OS X to ask for a password in order to gain shell access . To do so , vi the / etc/ttys and change secure to insecure . Once you have done so , create a password in / etc/master . passwd for root .
You do n't need the iChat service . Any Jabber ( aka XMPP ) server will do ( the iChat server in OS X Server is also one , basically ) , and it can run on virtually any machine in your network . I 'm afraid I ca n't recommend one , but Google should be able to help you .
macs do have hibernate and sleep , the default on newer machines is a combination . the closing of the lid saves to disk for hibernate but on wakeup if the battery has not run out it wakes from sleep . <URL> You can change it from the command line Or via <URL> <URL>
I had some marginally bad memory that would crash the system occasionally , so for that reason I put the original memory back , and since that time I have n't received this error . So in my case it 's probably related to bad RAM , as odd as that may seem .
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
Open the file in Preview Now Click on Edit In Edit menu bar click on the last icon looks like a square with line from corner to corner . In the new window you can adjust the size and the resolution .
Go to Finder → Preferences → Tags . You can rename/delete tags by right-clicking and modify the coloured tags with the control at the bottom .
You can try this one-liner : Let it run for a while , then hit Control-C . It will print a summary of the number of bytes read from sockets , distributed among processes . For a more detailed view , replace by . Or just to see a count of socket reads , replace by . Disclaimer : I have only tried this on Lion , but AFAIK no great changes in dtrace-ability have occured between SL and Lion .
You could either edit property lists that store the setting and reopen the DictationIM process : Or use UI scripting : Both scripts are copied from my answer to <URL> .
You can disable some of the F-key shortcuts in System Preferences :
Thanks to <URL> for this : In terminal , you can turn wifi off and on with these commands en1 being wifi . Try to see whether that 's right for you or not . Here 's a one-liner to toggle between on and off Create a keyboard shortcut that runs a shell command Start Automator , and create a new Service . Set " Service receives selected : to " no input " in " any application " . Add an action named " Run Shell Script " . It 's in the Utilities section of the Actions Library . Insert the bash command you want into the text box and test run it using the Run button ( top right ) . It should do whatever the script does ( off , on or toggle ) , and there should be green ticks below the Action . Save it , giving it a service name you can remember . Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard , and go to the Shortcuts tab Go to the Services section , and scroll down to General - you should find your service there . If you select the line , you can click " add shortcut " and give it a keyboard shortcut .
Download and install the excellent <URL> , which -- amongst other things -- lets you declare the default handler for fmp7 : / / URLs .
I 've re-installed the OS many times since , so the original issue no longer bugs me . But I did find a third party application " Shortcut Detective " ( <URL> ) that comes very close .
I have n't been experimenting with this for long enough to be an expert yet , but I think you 're confusing two semi-separate features : autosave and versions . Autosave saves frequently -- in TextEdit , it seems to save after about 30 seconds of inactivity . But it does n't save a new version , it just saves the current document state . Every hour and/or every time you explicitly save a version ( Command-S ) , it saves a restorable version -- one that you can revert to if you decide you 've made a mistake in editing . Once saved , the " version " does not get updated ; you can revert to it , or go into the Browse all Versions interface and copy content from it , but it 's essentially frozen . Autosave protects you against forgetting to save changes . Versions protects you against mistaken edits you wish you had n't made . They operate on different time scales ( and as far as I know , neither has customizable timing ) .
A list of iOS browsers which allow user agent switching : <URL> ( $ 1.99 ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( $ 0.99 , plus free <URL> ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( Free ) SkyFire ( $ 2.99 for <URL> , $ 4.99 for <URL> ) <URL> ( Free )
end question
start question
Does Mail support multiple email accounts ?
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
Yes a family pack allows you to create 4 additional usernames that have all the features of the main account , the only difference being that they are limited to 5gb of storage . I upgraded to a family pack and used one of the 4 additional accounts for my girlfriend so she could use Find My iPhone ( before it was free with an AppleID ) she can also sync her bookmarks , dock , prefs , etc just like my account . The only thing I am not 100 % sure is if she can also create alias email addresses like I can on my main account but I believe she can .
It turns out that there is SATA 3 on board , it just was n't enabled until 4 May 2011 . The Other World Computing <URL> has the details : While <URL> is described as including " fixes that improve performance and stability for Thunderbolt , " it would also seem that an unadvertised benefit is that it also unlocks the full 6Gb/s , SATA 3.0 capabilities of two of the internal drive bays . Unfortunately , the optical bay remains at 3Gb/s .
There is a second clipboard in OS X , called the kill-ring . Press Control ^ + K to " kill " ( copy ) the rest of the current line to the kill-ring , and Control ^ + Y to " yank " ( paste ) it .
It sounds like the account type might be POP instead of IMAP . POP stores messages and all message attributes on each client ( iMac , iPad , etc ) . IMAP stores messages and attributes on the server , so every client has the same view of the messages ( including unread/read state ) . So , the solution for you is to use IMAP if the account supports it .
Mavericks does NOT support MTP natively . You can use <URL> for MTP file system access or one of many other apps like <URL> , or <URL> for file sharing that does not use MTP .
There 's a JailBreak Tweak called Mail Enhancer that does exactly what you want . It 's $ 4.99 in the BigBoss repository , and there 's another one called SIGnify for $ 1.50 in the ModMyi repo . They both allow you to have signatures with HTML formatting , but the more expensive one has many more features that make the Mail.app much more usable .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
HealthKit is pretty smart with your data . For every source in the Health app , you can set the priority of difference apps . Tap one of the metrics in the Health app tap Share data > Edit to drag sources in the right order . If other apps request data , HealthKit will automatically merge the datasets , probably based on timestamps . It picks the high priority app first , and fills the gaps in data with the number 2 app , etc. . This WWDC would be a great start to get <URL> .
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
It 's a Treasure Hunt ! On the iPad : Click the wrench icon to open the Settings dialog . One of the settings is AirPlay - Bluetooth . Set that to On , and the usual audio output selector will appear in the toolbar . On the iPhone : Click the gear icon to open an untitled two-sheet settings dialog . Select the Song sheet . The AirPlay - Bluetooth selector is there .
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
Mail.app has no categories , but the Outlook 2011 on Mac has . Also making Mail communicate with Exchange server is tricky , however Outlook 2011 will do that . So she can still use her mac with Outlook for work , and mail for all other emails .
macOS Sierra still supports multiple simultaneous connected users . In the example below Sierra is running in a VM and admin is logged in . user is a remote screen sharing session from the VM host machine ( 10.9.5 ) -- an iMac -- and root is a remote session from a MacBook Pro ( 10.11.6 ) : <URL>
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
I tried some development to a remote Mac once . It was a terrible experience . Even over a LAN , the latency of the display update speed was maddening in what should be an instant-feedback development UI . You could maybe try using virtual machines on the Mac Mini ( I do n't know how this would affect licensing , you 'd probably have to buy another OSX per virtual machine ) which would get around not being able to run more than one iOS Simulator as mentioned in the previous answer ) . While Xcode is a bit of a resource hog I think you could get away with it if its just two users . I agree that a Mac Mini per developer is the sanest solution for your wallet and the kindest one for your developers though .
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
Perhaps an AppleScript like this one can help . Note that I 'm not really proficient in AppleScript , so I 'm sure this can be improved , but no one has answered so far .
Developers access your Twitter accounts through the <URL> . When an app requests access to your accounts , it uses the method . ( The only supported account type is currently . ) This grants access to all accounts of that type . Therefore , unfortunately , apps ca n't request access to only a single account -- you have to give access to all of your Twitter accounts .
end question
start question
Is WiFi calling supported on ios 8 on iPhone 5 ?
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
There are three microphones on the iPhone 5 . This setup is used to eliminate background noise while on call . One is ideally placed at the back , and two in the front . So basically when you 're covering the bottom , the mic on the ear piece picks up the audio input .
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
iOS 4 If the phone is connected to a power source , then Wifi remains enabled , even if the phone goes to sleep . If the phone is not connected to a power source , then Wifi is disabled once the phone goes to sleep . This of course was by design in an effort to reduce battery consumption . iOS 5 iOS 5 looks to have altered the behaviour of the device . If iTunes wireless syncing is enabled and iTunes is running , the device will listen to any Wifi connection and wake for it ( even SSH , which requires a jailbreak to install ) . I 've tested the device with iTunes not running and it indeed behaves as it did in the previous iteration of iOS , refusing to allow a connection through SSH until I woke the device . However , it seems this is not consistent . Leaving the phone unconnected and iTunes running , I started an SSH session and began transferring some files . When the phone went to sleep , the connection was lost . So it looks like the answer is " yes , but do n't count on it ? " Clearly iTunes wireless syncing throws us a curveball here .
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
For what it 's worth , iTunes is probably exactly the most bloated and slow software that Apple includes on a Mac , as it 's pretty much the only built in app that is n't 64 bit , and until very recently it was n't even using Cocoa but Carbon APIs which Apple have been telling people not to use for years now . Having said that , the largest bottleneck is the speed of the USB transfer along with the ability of the iphone to process the update and write to its flash memory and validate it etc , so really I would n't expect to see a massive difference .
Well , iOS 6.1 seems to finally have solved the problem for me ; after updating my iPhone 5 happily connects to the company Wi-Fi again . I have n't yet tried connecting with the iPad , but I hope that works as well .
iPhone 4S has a smaller antenna and slower processor ( A5 vs. A5X ) than iPad 3rd generation . More importantly , the iPhone 4S wi-fi is ( 802.11 b/g/n ) 2.4 GHz only , while the third generation iPad has two channels -- 802.11 a/b/g / n Wi-Fi ( 802.11 n 2.4 GHz and 5GHz . ) I do n't think the iPad uses both channels at once , but I think if the second channel is more clear or faster to your router , it would not be surprising the iPad gets faster speeds over Wi-Fi . I think a faster processor alone would allow for faster Wi-Fi speeds . Similarly , the faster CPUs in MacBooks and iMacs would allow for faster Wi-Fi speeds , even if the networking architecture is the same . ( I suspect it is n't , and that there are larger antennas in Macs than iPads , which is another factor ... )
Try turning off your home WiFi . A kind of interference , maybe ?
Yes the cases are compatible and apple has confirmed it . Source : <URL>
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
It 's more that Safari was being boosted in 4.3 and that that boost was not available to Web Apps on the homescreen According to <URL> this is fixed in iOS 5 .
Yes . It does extremely well with geo-tagging photos without an internet connection . The phone simply saves the lat/longitude in the photo file . What one needs a data connection for is viewing the images on a map - one must download the map to display the pins .
Go to the photo in Photos , tap Edit , then tap the Crop button to show the Rotate button . Tapping the Crop button is what 's new here as in iOS 7 this was n't required .
It 's just a matter of hardware . The M9 coprocessor in the iPhone 6s is efficient enough to keep the microphone listening all the time without murdering the battery , unlike the chips in older devices . From the article your question links to : With iPhone 6s , the device is constantly monitoring audio input in the background , a process made possible by the highly efficient M9 motion coprocessor embedded in Apple 's new A9 system-on-chip .
Thanks to <URL> for this : In terminal , you can turn wifi off and on with these commands en1 being wifi . Try to see whether that 's right for you or not . Here 's a one-liner to toggle between on and off Create a keyboard shortcut that runs a shell command Start Automator , and create a new Service . Set " Service receives selected : to " no input " in " any application " . Add an action named " Run Shell Script " . It 's in the Utilities section of the Actions Library . Insert the bash command you want into the text box and test run it using the Run button ( top right ) . It should do whatever the script does ( off , on or toggle ) , and there should be green ticks below the Action . Save it , giving it a service name you can remember . Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard , and go to the Shortcuts tab Go to the Services section , and scroll down to General - you should find your service there . If you select the line , you can click " add shortcut " and give it a keyboard shortcut .
Reply from Rovio , maker of the game : This feature has been done in cooperation with Twitter Inc. . Thus , players of Angry Birds Star Wars who have also Twitter accounts got the chance to post the info of their favorite characters on Twitter . Unfortunately we do not have any tool to disconnect Twitter from our game at the moment . However , you can use the ' manage account ' option in Twitter app and remove your account on Twitter before your children start playing the game , or disable the internet connection on your device . To log out of your Twitter account , launch the Twitter app and go to " Manage accounts " ( it 's the button next to the settings button on your Twitter profile page ) . Then remove your default account . When you wish to tweet again , just log in to the app and you 're good to go ! We are still working on developing this feature for future updates , so we apologize for any inconvenience this might cause . Hope you enjoy the game ! Best regards , Kalle Rovio Support Team
I had a battery replaced on the day after iPhone 6 launch and the process took 50 minutes door to door . ( Entering the store to leaving ) . We did have a reservation and chose to stay past the " 50 minutes " to let the iCloud restore finish and get key apps from the in store cache / fast internet . I would expect you might get in and out 10 minutes quicker on a less busy day and could wait twice that if several phones were ahead of you to have batteries replaced .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
end question
start question
Where are keyboard shortcuts stored ( for backup and sync purposes ) ?
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
⌘ Cmd + ` works for me with the same versions of Chrome and OS X , so it might be something specific to your installation . You could try temporarily resetting Chrome 's preferences or disabling extensions . Or change the shortcut from System Preferences or test if it works on a different account .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
Photos does not actually move the files or duplicate them when importing from an existing iPhoto or Aperture library . It simply creates <URL> to the files in their original location from the new Photos library . See how <URL> on Apple 's site . More on hard links from <URL> : A hard link is simply a reference to some data on disk . Think of a file as a combination of a name and a pointer to some data . Deleting a file really means deleting the name portion of that duo . When there are no more names pointing to a particular piece of data disk , then that disk space can be reused . " You can delete your Aperture library without any problems , however you will no longer be able to use Aperture ( unless you set up a new library ) . Any changes made in your existing Aperture library will not appear in Photos , and vice-versa . Basically the actual image exists somewhere on the disk , and there are two pointers to the image ( one from the old library and one from the new library ) . So long as at least one of those pointers exists , the data is kept . But when the last pointer is removed ( i.e. the old iPhoto library itself is removed , then the image is removed from the Photos library ) , the data is also removed .
⌘ Command + ` will cycle between windows of the current application when using i.a. US keyboard .
The Launchpad database is located at To edit it , you 'll have to use SQLite . You can do this on the command line , or with a graphic interface . See <URL> for recommendations for a GUI app .
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
Most of these settings are stored in . The " Show fast user switching menu " setting is stored at ( for each user account on the system ) . The Network Account Server settings are stored in your Directory Services database . You can utilize the command to look at various settings dealing with your Network Account Server . I recommend using to look at the details of this function , but as an example I can use the following command to see the Active Directory domain I 'm bound to at work : For Open Directory you would use : Additional Note from OP : files are coded in binary . To read them in Terminal you will want to make a copy of the file that you can tinker with , and convert that copy into XML format . Use the command to create your copy and to convert to readable XML .
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
Since you are going over the network . They only drawback relating to NTFS is that if other PCs will be using the file share that are not Macs , you might want to disable some of the files Mac OS is creating on every network volume it touches . Consider adjusting some setting to prevent <URL> files from being written to the NTFS drive , that might clutter the " Windows Experience " as referenced from <URL> What about the . DS_Store files ? Depending on the Windows PC settings , you might see a bunch of . DS_Store files on the Mac file system . These are normal but if you 're peeved by them , you can disable . DS_Store files by entering the following defaults write command in OS X 's Terminal : If you want them back , just switch that to ' false ' at the end .
There are not specific keyboard shortcuts for those two individual items in <URL> but you can navigate to them with the keyboard . Here 's how you could get a login or password into your clipboard without pushing a mouse ( or fondling a trackpad ) . Command-F to search for the account you want to access & uarr ; / & darr ; to move up or down through the search results Command-E to switch to edit mode for the selected record Tab until you get to the field you want to copy Command-C to copy the value from the field Command-E again to exit edit mode You now have the value you want on your clipboard . I know it 's not the single shortcut you were looking for but I think it 's as close as you 're going to get with 1Password .
The Time Machine functionality that OS X Server provides is to allow an remote OS X machine to use the server as a Time Machine backup disk . The server will create a sparsebundle for each remote machine it is backing up . OS X Server includes a way of controlling and administrating services that can be implemented on normal OS X . In this case you can create a sparse bundle and share it in plain OSX ( or as is done in many Network Attached Servers in Linux/BSD ) For your case as you are not using the server as a remote TM backup then OS X Server does not provide much here . With normal OSX you can share the external disk via AFP , samba but these are better not to expose across the internet for security reasons or better use ssh to remotely access the Mac .
CalDAV and CardDAV should definitely be two-way on iOS 4 . I 'm doing CalDAV right now through Google and I can confirm it works fine . I have n't tried CardDAV , but I have n't heard of any other issues . It 's possible that your CalDAV server is n't set up properly , or you " Subscribed " to the CalDAV server instead of adding an account . Hard to say without knowing the particulars of your setup . To add a CalDAV account : Open Settings on your iPhone , and tap Mail , Contacts , Calendars Tap Add Account ... Tap Other Under Calendars , tap Add CalDAV Account . Make sure you get that , not Add Subscribed Calendar Fill in the server and account details , hit Next and Save . Repeat with CardDAV instead of CalDav You should be all set . If it does n't work , check out things server-side .
Definitely Homebrew . I started with Fink , then switched to MacPorts ( happier ) , then Homebrew ( much , much happier ) . These are my reasons for using each ( a pro list if you will ) : Fink Apt-based - feel right at home if you come from a Debian-based environment Binary packages - packages are available as binaries so no long compile times . Practically though I 've found that the pre-compiled binaries were always outdated and I had to compile stuff for my system anyways Decent selection of packages MacPorts Biggest selection of packages/ports Generally very up to date Nice <URL> that lets you customise the build Easy and intuitive port files Homebrew Very up to date Maximum leveraging of what comes with OS X. Unlike Fink or MacPorts , it does not require you to build/install ruby and libraries from scratch just to install some small Ruby-based tool . Installs into so does not need you to modify anywhere Everything owned by user , so no packages ever need potentially risky root access to install Every installed package is cleanly sandboxed into its own cellar so you do n't have stray files all over your system , just symlinks from bin , man , etc. . <URL> to create your own formula files ( ie . package descriptors ) Since you 're from a ruby background , another plus is everything is written in ruby and all formulas are simple ruby scripts
It 's stored in an <URL> on the file . Specifically the attribute . It may stay with the file when you move it to different computers , but it depends on the filesystem or file sharing protocol you use . If you move it to another Mac on an HFS + disk , it will likely keep it , but not necessarily if you transfer over the network , and most likely not with an external disk with a non-HFS + filesystem . You can check a file by running in the Terminal , or remove it with . flag is also useful ; it will list the names of xattrs along with the usual ls information . If you want to remove it from multiple files , have a look at this question : <URL>
I believe that airdrop transfers directly into your downloads folder . Should anything happen to interrupt the transfer , you will likely end up with a file called " transferred_file.txt . download " , the file is renamed to remove the . download upon completion . If you have any . download files sitting there and not changing in size , they are failed downloads and can potentially be restarted ( if they originated from Safari ) , or removed . You can test this by transferring a new large file , and watching the file get created , increase in size , then get renamed .
Answering my own question : there 's a new tab in Whatsapp called " Recent " , which I had n't paid attention to . It 's the second one from the left , and it has the log of your recent Whatsapp voice calls .
Some of the files used in restoring applications are located at . These files are updated while an application is running , and if it crashes they are used by the system to restore it ( if the application crashes during the restore process , OS X offers to discard the saved state when relaunching a second time ) . But some applications such as Chrome store more information elsewhere . Chrome stores your open tabs and other data in . There I see files such as and . ( For comparison , Safari uses . )
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
end question
start question
How can I enable a notification that a pop-up has been blocked in Safari ?
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
My suspicion is that the Instagram app was programmed for the older OS and needs an update . You could check their support forums , but it also might be something you just wait out for the next few app updates to post from the vendor . It also could just be server side changes - if your iPad is n't served the complete resolution images , you wo n't have them . ( i.e. the problem might not exist on your device at all ) .
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
Somebody heard you , because this is now baked in . Your iCloud account will sync bookmarks , browser history , and even tabs in Yosemite and iOS 8 .
You could save a script like this as a stay open application in AppleScript Editor : You can open it at login by adding it to login items . waits one second before running the idle handler again . terminates the process . Closing windows with System Events : I use this function to connect to a 3G network : opens the application on the background . Without the shell shows a message like after the background job finishes . is like but it does n't show an error message if it does n't match any processes .
First , check that your processor is running full speed . Go to Preferences , Energy Saver , Options and look at the drop box down near the bottom called Processor Performance . If it is not set to " Highest " , set it to that right away . This maximizes performance , but for notebooks , it may run down the battery faster . Note that not all Macs have this setting - laptops do , and my certainly my PowerMac G5 tower does , but not all Macs do . Next , download OnyX and run the complete set of clean up and maintenance scripts and then evaluate again . Get OnyX at : <URL> Next , you may wish to check that you have enough free space on your hard drive . Highlight the Macintosh HD icon on your desktop , CTL-click it and select Get Info from the resulting menu . Make sure you have a reasonable amount of space left . If not , a little spring cleaning may be in order . There are two excellent apps for showing where all of your hard disk space has gone , Disk Inventory X and WhatSize . Get them at : Disk Inventory X : <URL> WhatSize : <URL> Both do a great job at letting you zero in on your largest disk space consumers , so that you can hunt down any rogue files ( and both are freeware , which is good ) . Finally , it is possible you may have some processes running that are consuming a lot of idle CPU , thus slowing down your machine overall . I had a bad widget that did this once . Open Activity Monitor and look at your " resting " CPU occupancy when you are not doing anything in particular with the machine . It should be pretty much zero ( maybe 1 % to 2 % at most ) . If it not , identify the process or processes that are taking the time . What are they ? Do you recognize them ? Are they needed ? If you find one that is not needed , kill it and see how your machine starts to behave . If this is the cure , you will need to identify the startup item that launches it and delete it . So , in summary then , take the following steps in order : 1 / Start with ensuring that your processor speed setting is full ( applies to many Macs but not all ) 2 / Then do Onyx based full maintenance 3 / Then check that you have sufficient available disk space 4 / Finally , search for processes that are consuming an unexpected amount of CPU Source : <URL> Another place you may find helpful : <URL>
Select the song in iTunes and type & #x 21E7 ; + & #x 2318 ; + R to trigger Show in Finder . Alternatively , you can also right-click the item in iTunes and choose this option from the contextual menu . From there , you can navigate up the folder hierarchy by holding the & #x 2318 ; - key and clicking on the folder in the window title bar . You might also want to enable Show Path bar in finder .
Most likely you have not enabled ssh for all users in the sharing preference pane . Either go add the user you created or tick " Allow access for : All Users "
This in Terminal will show Notification Center again : You will have to restart your Mac afterwards . Reported to work in El Capitan ( 10.11.1 ) as well .
I think I 've fixed my problem . I had 1000 + movies in iPhoto , and since iMovie just treats them as 1 huge " event " it was trying to open an event with 1000 + movies in it . My HD only had ~ 10GB empty . I exported them all out of iPhoto , moved them to an external HD , separated them out into individual folders and imported each folder 1 by 1 as a separate event , keeping the files stored on my external HD . I 've now got my 3 years of video files all imported and have created 3 different projects which I 've taken to completion and posted to Youtube . iMovie is lithe and snappy once again ! So , tips for speeding up iMovie : Free up HD space so you have > 10 ~ 15 % free Make sure your events do n't have too many video files in them ( anything over 50 is getting close to the upper limit it seems ) Consider an external HD , preferably SSD ( You can use multiple drives to hold your " events " . You 're not just limited to your primary HD )
I believe <URL> will do this . It will also break down your browser usage by site , which is useful too .
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
The action for emptying caches was moved to the develop menu : You can still see resources in the web inspector : To download YouTube videos , reload the page after opening the web inspector and double-click the resource . To download it , you have to focus the location bar and press ⌥ ↩ . ⌘ S only saves some metadata .
<URL> is the canonical bug reporting mechanism . Once you have submitted an issue , it will be given a " radar " number and you will be treated to possibly the most archaic customer-facing bug reporting interfaces on the planet . You will want to first select a developer account and agree to Apple 's terms . In your case , the free of cost Safari developer program might be very useful if you care to know what changes are in store for Safari . <URL>
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
Select Finder and click View → Show Sidebar or press ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt/option + S . A tip when it comes to menus : if you go to the Help menu and search for what you want . It will highlight the result in the menu if you hover over it .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
<URL> should report all clips with alpha channels as 32 bit : You can of course specify wildcards when calling exiftool : <URL> may do this as well if you prefer a GUI app .
Nope , there is no way to do it . I think that 's really stupid . Though I remember being able to do that in iBooks when it was first released , before iOS had a built in dictionary .
end question
start question
How to show a notification when the iSIght webcam turns on ?
With the help of Growl 's <URL> about AppleScript support and a little discussion with <URL> and <URL> in the <URL> onto the question I 've come up with the following AppleScript . I 've saved this script as an application agent which you can add to your login items in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Users &amp; Groups & #x 2192 ; Login Items . Basically , this application works by detecting if a unique executable related to using the camera is being accessed . Whenever the executable is accessed , the application will notify about it to Growl : <URL> It 's important to know that this script monitors access to the executable ... Full script
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
You can use the command line tool <URL> to make a sticky notification , but unfortunately , you ca n't set a specific time . Here are the commands : It will prompt you : Make sure you hit Return , then Ctrl + D . The resulting notification will stay up as long as you do n't click the " X " in the corner .
Launchd will run your jobs next time the mac wakes from sleep . So if you shut down your mac , this wo n't work . You will need to put your mac to sleep to get your daily script to run when the mac wakes if the last time it should have run was during the sleep duration . man launchd.plist : If the system is asleep , the job will be started the next time the computer wakes up . If multiple intervals transpire before the computer is woken , those events will be coalesced into one event upon wake from sleep . Or in other words : You do n't have to do anything specific , it 's the default behavior anyway . If you also want to run the command once after reboot , add to your launchd plist .
It will show up in your missed calls list in FaceTime.app ( even if your computer is turned off at the time ) : So yeah , FaceTime stores missed call information on Apple 's servers . It will show up in FaceTime.app , but you need to open FaceTime.app for it to show .
Assuming you have a normal Numbers Date/Time , then a simple statement can be used combined with the function . To add more than just 2 options , nest your statement . Numbers will return the first TRUE value . <URL>
I do n't think you can do this in Safari on the iPhone but you could use a 3rd party browser app . Many of those will let you set the browser agent . One browser I know does this is ' Atomic Web Browser ' . This may not work in all cases as some websites may use other ways of determining which content to show , for example , some will detect the screen dimensions . I 've tried this on my iPhone with Atomic Web Browser . Within the browser , I went to settings , ' Identify browser as ' and selected ' Safari Desktop ' . Then I went to nascar.com and tapped on the nascar logo . It showed me the desktop version of the page . I checked in mobile safari and doing the same indeed took me to a mobile version .
You can get the home timeline from the Twitter API and display tweets using <URL> . would stack multiple notifications and not clip the text in long tweets . The Twitter library can be installed with . You can run the script every minute by editing the crontab with and adding a line like . A recent update to <URL> added an option to send notifications for all tweets :
Open your desired user Home folder in Finder ( ShiftCommand + H ) and select View > Show View Options . There should be a checkbox for toggling the Library folder .
<URL> Notifies You When Caps Lock Is On ! The little app shows you huge icon when caps in on !
If you mean the usage on the mobile network , it is shown in Settings - > Mobile network , all the way down , scroll down to see when it 's been reset .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
These files starting with a dot are meant to be hidden in * nix . To see them in terminal add the flag to the command : To see them in the Finder you will want to set a hidden preference ( this is global change tho , you 'll see all your hidden files everywhere ) : and then restart the finder : To reverse and hide them again : <URL> Update to add : Lately I 've only been able to get this to work when the string is lower case ! I think this happened starting in 10.9 , but not certain . So you 'll want :
<URL> is a paper by Matthew Brocker and Stephen Checkoway from the Johns Hopkins University . In this paper they explain on how to disable the LED when using the camera . In short : normally you use the CPU to access the camera and activate the LED , but you can also use the processing unit in on the camera board itself and this will not activate the green LED . The authors also provide software to protect you against these problems . iFixit had the same question and their <URL> was also based on the same paper : according to the researchers , the vulnerability they discovered affects " Apple internal iSight webcams found in earlier-generation Apple products , including the iMac G5 and early Intel-based iMacs , MacBooks , and MacBook Pros until roughly 2008 . " While the attack outlined in the paper is limited to these devices , researchers like Charlie Miller suggest that the attack could be applicable to newer systems as well . " There 's no reason you ca n't do it -- it 's just a lot of work and resources but it depends on how well [ Apple ] secured the hardware , " Miller says . In short : Yes , the iSight can be used without green light as it is not hardwired .
There 's 2 different things here which are not pretty clear . First of all , there 's SMS and iMessage . And like explained on this <URL> you can restrict iMessages from giving a notification if you decide you want contacts only ( since iOS6 ) . This does not work for SMS . With iOS the name of Show iMessage alerts from changed , but the functionality remained the same .
Check if you have the new Gmail app installed . Every time it gets a new email , it triggers the " iphone Text Message sound " . The sound can be disabled via Settings app > Notifications > Gmail > uncheck Sound .
SMC is short for <URL> . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . Therefore a reset can only help in problems that are related to such . Possible cases where an SMC Reset could be necessary include ( according to Apple ) : fans running fast but should not keyboard backlight , battery indicator light , display backlight or magsafe LED behaves incorrectly power button does not respond closing/opening the lid does not work properly battery not charging properly system unusually slow
There are many iOS devices ( some with previous generation hardware and running older iOS ) . If the original question is referring to iPad , iPad 2 , iPod Touch 4th Generation , and iPhone 4 , there are now two new optional Apple accessories available at Apple Store ( US ) . Both allows video out ( up to 1080p and mirroring for iPad 2 ; up to 720p with no mirroring for the rest i.e. iPad , iPod Touch 4th gen , and iPhone 4 ) : <URL> <URL>
For Mac : Open the " FaceTime " application on the Mac Pull down the FaceTime menu and choose " Preferences " Under the primary Settings tab , uncheck the box for " iPhone Cellular Calls " Quit FaceTime For iPad : Settings - > Facetime - > iPhone Cellular Calls on the iPad .
I found someone 's <URL> to this exact request over <URL> . It 's a four year old post , but the method should still work .
end question
start question
How to take a full page screenshot in Mac OS Safari ?
Maybe Do n't give <URL> a try , see disclaimer below . There are better options available , see other answers to this question . Awesome Screenshot is a browser plugin that can capture the full site the visible part or a selection of the site . It also allows for basic annotation of the screenshot as well as downloading it or saving it on the web for access by URL . Available as extension to Safari , Firefox and Chrome . DISCLAIMER : there are <URL> that Awesome Screenshot sends information about your browser history to third party servers . I would not recommend this after all . It also has a history of integrating <URL> in it 's extension and then <URL> .
You should edit your top sites and pin what do you want to see every time .
Yes , the application is called " Photo Booth , " and lives , I 'm pretty sure , in / Applications/Photo Booth.app After you 've taken a photo , you can drag an image to the desktop or to a folder in the Finder to save as a jpg image .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
There is no concept of HomePage in Safari for iPad . Sorry You can go to your favorite website , use the " arrow " icon and press the " On home screen " button , that will create an icon on your homescreen which will launch that webpage in safari when you press it .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
Exporting Your Chrome Bookmarks Chrome stores bookmarks in a non-HTML format so you need to export them first before you can import them in to Safari . Select from the menu bar in Chrome In the Bookmark Manager UI select Select a location to save the file ( I suggest ) in the File window dialog and click the button Import the Exported Bookmarks in to Safari In Safari select from the menu bar Navigate to the folder where you saved the exported HTML bookmarks file , select the file and press the button Your bookmarks will be imported in to a bookmark folder named . For example , on the day of writing this answer , my imported bookmarks were placed in a bookmark folder named . You can organize your bookmarks in Safari by selecting to open the bookmark editing interface in a tab . Move and re-arrange your imported bookmarks to suit your needs .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
On safari open Inspector - > Resource Tab - > on right hand panel you can see Scheme : will be HTTPS if https or HTTP if secure . <URL>
There is a default application named in OS-X for editing images . If you created any screen shots , just open that screenshot image in application and you can see the edit toolbar to edit the image .
I had this problem connecting to the local public library system network . The problem seems to be a result of my having specified DNS servers ( ( i.e. OpenDNS , Google , etc. ) ) in my Network preferences . The solution was to create a network location called " No DNS " which does n't have any DNS servers defined and use that network location when I need to log into these networks .
Page numbering and format can be defined per section so you can get to the required format by creating two sections in your document and setting the page numbering accordingly Start with an empty document " Insert - Auto Page Number " , select the " Section " option for " Show In " and set the format to roman numbers . This is now your TOC section . Use " Insert - Section break " to create a new section " Insert - Auto Page Number " again , select the " Section " option for " Show In " and set the format to arabic numbers With the cursor in the second section , open the inspector and reset the page number to 1
⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 3 will screenshot the entire screen and save it to your desktop . ( You should hear a camera sound when you do this . ) ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 will give you crosshairs to use to select an area for copying . Move the crosshairs to the location that you want to copy and click the upper left , dragging the crosshairs to the lower right of the area you want . When you release , you will hear the same camera sound , and the screenshot will save to your desktop . Also , ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 , then Space , then clicking any window will save that window to a screenshot . To change the location of the saved screenshot , launch Terminal and use the following command : Make sure you change to be the location where you want your screenshots to go .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
This is currently not possible . You can have it at page 1 and page 2 using a normal footer as you 're probably aware , but not automatically move to the last page of a document . You can do it manually as you 're also probably aware by using the section inspector , but that 's still not automatic and would require you to delete it from page 1 and then add it back to page 2 . You can notify Apple that you would like this feature implemented using their Pages feedback page : <URL>
end question
start question
Restart needed to reconnect Thunderbolt Display ?
That only applies to using the Thunderbolt device under Windows 7 . It 's not the case when you 're using OS X -- you should be able to plug and unplug at will , without needing to restart . It 's not clear from that quote , but if you note , the index of <URL> ( from which this nugget came ) , items 21 through 27 relate only to using Thunderbolt devices under Boot Camp and Windows 7 .
I do use Stay and am happy with it :) But I also use another app that I really like called Slate ( <URL> ) . Slate is open source ( and free ) , and does allow to define things like Stay ( profiles : layouts of windows - which I think will fit your needs ) , but also allow move windows with keys combinations , and many other interesting things ... I also have dual display setups and managed to get things working fine with Stay . I have 3 setups two in dual display and one without external display and it works just fine , restoring the windows to their positions when I connect a particular profile ( I previously configured ... I had to create some simple rules ) . I use Slate for moving windows around with the keyboard ... I think it is a good combination :p Cheers !
The <URL> is unique and a property of the actual network hardware ( although it can be spoofed ) . So your adapter has its own MAC address , as does the the network interface in a Thunderbolt display , and the Wi-Fi in your MacBook Air . Different Thunderbolt to Ethernet adapters will have different MAC addresses , but moving one between different ports wo n't change it . You can view the MAC address of any network interface attached to your Mac by using Network Utility , which you 'll find in the Utilities folder within your Applications folder . It calls it a Hardware Address , but it 's the same thing .
The Thunderbolt display expects a full Thunderbolt signal ( that is , muxed PCI-Express and DisplayPort ) . It will not work with DisplayPort-only sources . To date , I 've not heard of any announced ( let alone released ) adapters that could drive a Thunderbolt display from a non-Thunderbolt source . If you really need to do this , you might be able to hook the Xbox up to an HDMI capture card ( it needs to support HDCP ) that is connected to a Thunderbolt-equipped computer to which the display is connected . These capture cards are usually used by professional video editors and can be quite expensive .
I think that this question has already been asked : <URL> To sum it up , it is too early for a splitter or hub for a Thunderbolt port . But you can daisy chain . And this sums it up as well : <URL>
What you are experiencing are the benefits of working with resume . A feature introduced with Mac OS X Lion . It restores the state of the computer when shut down . Very useful , when having to restart because of some installation procedure . It reopens the used windows of applications . Quite useful since you do not have to navigate to a files location . Instead , just open the needed application to open the file . Unchecking the box does not have a permanent effect . This can be achieved by manual tweaking . Disable Resume upon login permanently Open the Terminal and enter : This command downloads a script and fully installs it . Voilà , you are done . If you want to revert to the default behavior of resume in lion , type this . Kudos to <URL> who wrote the script . Disable Resume when launching apps You can also disable Resume for applications on a per app basis . <URL>
From Apple 's <URL> : Can I connect a Mini DisplayPort display to my Apple Thunderbolt Display for computers that support using more than one display ? Mini DisplayPort displays will not function if connected to the Thunderbolt port of an Apple Thunderbolt Display . Displays connected via Mini DisplayPort video adapter or cable to the Thunderbolt port of an Apple Thunderbolt Display will not work . So as you guessed , you ca n't daisychain a non-Thunderbolt display to a Thunderbolt display . You can only do it with two Thunderbolt displays ( or of course , two displays on different ports directly connected to your Mac ) .
That only applies to using the Thunderbolt device under Windows 7 . It 's not the case when you 're using OS X -- you should be able to plug and unplug at will , without needing to restart . It 's not clear from that quote , but if you note , the index of <URL> ( from which this nugget came ) , items 21 through 27 relate only to using Thunderbolt devices under Boot Camp and Windows 7 .
<URL> BetterTouchTool allows you to set a trigger to move a window to a second monitor , such as the one below : Trigger : Doubleclick Window Titlebar ; Predifined Action : Move Window to Next Monitor Alternatively , a mouse button , keyboard shortcut , Apple Remote , Magic Mouse or trackpad gesture could be set up as the trigger . <URL> Slate is an extremely customisable tool that allows you to set window layouts/positions through keyboard shortcuts . Combining this with a BTT gesture , you can create a gesture-driven window movement tool for free ! Slate is a window management application similar to Divvy and SizeUp ( except better and free ! ) . Originally written to replace them due to some limitations in how each work , it attempts to overcome them by simply being extremely configurable . As a result , it may be a bit daunting to get configured , but once it is done , the benefit is huge .
<URL> , yes , it can carry power for devices in some circumstances . Specifically : 7 . Does the Thunderbolt port supply power to connected devices ? Yes . A Thunderbolt port supplies power if that Thunderbolt port is part of a device that is connected to an AC power outlet or is operating on battery power . If your Thunderbolt devices have their own power supplies , you should connect the power supplies to them for optimal functionality . If you are using Thunderbolt devices that get their power only from the Thunderbolt bus , computers running on battery power will experience battery drain more quickly . The <URL> currently say the copper-based version of the Thunderbolt protocol can deliver 18 V at 550 mA ( 9.9 W max ) . Presumably all Thunderbolt cables are built to this spec and can handle that kind of power passing through them . Whether the connected device can supply that kind of power is another question that can only be answered by looking at specific devices . Thunderbolt over an optical , instead of copper , connection would not be able to carry any power with the data signal . I note this only because Thunderbolt was original designed to be an optical protocol ; though its since been adapted to copper which is a good thing .
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
Sorry , but currently it 's not possible . Thunderbolt ports on Macs can output a Mini Displayport signal , but the Thunderbolt Display can only receive a Thunderbolt signal , nothing else . It 's possible that an adapter to do this could be released in the future , but IMO that 's unlikely or if it happens will be quite expensive .
According to <URL> , this should work . <URL> confirms it . These are the troubleshooting steps I would try : Run all software updates on both the iMac and MacBook Air . A lot of times there are firmware updates that address issues like this . Open System Preferences > Displays and click Detect Displays . Reset the <URL> on both the iMac and the MacBook Air by restarting the computer and holding & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + P+R on boot but until you hear the POST chime twice . Then you can let go and boot normally . Be sure to do this on both machines . Try going through these steps and let me know if you 're able to resolve the issue .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
Yes . The Thunderbolt Display USB ports work well to connect a hub for more downstream devices . There is also enough power for unpowered hubs to connect low power devices like mice and USB flash storage . You will want a powered hub if you have multiple spinning hard drives or devices that you wish to charge from the hub itself .
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
AFAIK you can only do this using UI scripting , here are some ways to switch to the miniplayer : Simulating a click on the button in the interface : Using the keyboard shortcut : If you want to display the miniplay AND the fullsize player ( your request is n't clear ) use :
Currently the port on the MacBook Pro is both a DisplayPort and a Thunderbolt port . The limitation , as already explained in the other question , is only relevant to DisplayPort , which has to be the last device in the chain , if daisy chained . So in short , and in theory , it should work . According to the <URL> page , you can plug in any adapter for DisplayPort and it should work , as long as the device also supports it . The only time this gets really complex , is when you need to both power the device and use it using just the one port . If the device has external power , it should n't cause any major problems daisy chaining , however , the DisplayPort device still needs the last device in the chain . Simply because it can not transfer data at the speed and rate the Thunderbolt can .
First of all , connect the adapter and reboot . In many cases , it will solve the problem . You need to reboot because the adapter is not hot-pluggable . For the same reason , if you remove and re-insert the adapter , it wo n't work until you reboot . If you still have difficulties , I 've found <URL> at Apple Store . Google " <URL> " . Select the <URL> . Install via device manager ( select location where you unzipped driver ) . Note , the PCI ID for this device 14e4 :1682 is not listed in Broadcom 's web page list of supported IDs . However the driver 's . inf does include the requisite matching for the new device ID . Hopefully , you can solve this with a reboot due to it not working as a hot-plug device , and each time you need to boot Windows with the adapter attached for the driver to load .
Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays . <URL> The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained . In fact , the devices you daisy chain does n't matter , nor does the order they are in . However , like with the Display Port and eSATA , the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature . Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining , this will not be possible . The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port , the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself . The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices . Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient . Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port . Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream . Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon , I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule .
end question
start question
iOS5 - Does the ActiveSync Pin code lock prevent the new camera shortcut ?
No , the PIN Code does n't prevent you from using the camera shortcut . Just make sure to double-press the home button to show the camera shortcut . Note : you ca n't access your old photos as long as the iPhone is locked .
I care a lot about PDFs because as a lawyer I have to review a lot of scanned documents . The performance of PDF rendering on the new iPad depends on the techniques used . For full-resolution rendering , it 's a little slower , but software goes a long way . The overall experience depends on four factors : 1 ) Single-page rendering method 2 ) Zoom method 3 ) Caching 4 ) Pre-rendering Explanation : 1 ) Single page rendering : some apps do n't display anything until the whole page is rendered . Others render in a tiled fashion : some top to bottom , some in a spiral inside out . Some apps first render a low-res version of the page , then render the full-res version -- again , by either of the two methods . 2 ) Zoom : Again , some apps render on the fly , while others zoom in on the pre-rendered image and pop in the re-rendered tiles or the whole view . The iPad handles vector rescaling ( including text ) superbly , but rasterized PDFs ca n't be scaled in real-time if they 're in iPad-resolution territory . 3 ) Caching : some apps do n't cache at all , so re-render each time you change the view ( even if you 're on the same page ) . Others only cache one page at a time . Still others cache three pages or more , so you can flip pages and zoom in smoothly without re-rendering . 4 ) Pre-rendering : a few apps will pre-render the next page . One app , described below , pre-renders the whole document . iBooks and the Amazon Kindle app render large PDFs pretty efficiently . iBooks caches three pages , while Kindle 's cache seems to depend on page size . Kindle pre-renders the next page while you 're on the preceding page . However , neither support PDF markup . ( Kindle also does n't support rotation One app , just called " PDF " ( by Smalltalk Consulting ) pre-renders the entire PDF so that most of the subsequent work is done by the GPU . You set the rendering resolution . The default " 2x " gives you around 150dpi , " 4x " around 300 dpi , etc. . It slows down once you get past 4.5 x , but that resolution is sufficient for most applications . This is the best app I 've found to scroll quickly through large PDFs . However , it does n't render markup and does n't support any markup tools of its own . In short , the new iPad can not speed through a 600dpi PDF the way a quad-core i7 with 12GB of RAM can . But it can display and handle large PDF files the way they were meant to be -- with the right software . Goodreader has the best performance of any PDF viewer I 've tried , followed by PDF Expert . Certain techniques that worked on the old iPad just do n't fly on the new one , so some apps perform very poorly . ( Adobe 's own Reader is one of these . ) Other apps , like iPDF , are promising , but still do n't have full Retina support . ( Several apps only take advantage of the Retina display when zoomed in , but double the pixels when viewing the whole page . ) To answer the original question and the follow-up : rendering is done by the CPU , display and manipulation ( scrolling , zooming ) is done by the GPU . The CPU converts the text portions using the text rendering engine and the graphical portions using a bitmap engine . ( It 's possible that the iPad 's text rendering engine is handled by the GPU . ) The CPU on the new iPad is not significantly faster . PDF rendering methods that are CPU-heavy are even slower on the new iPad because the CPU has to do significantly more work to render at the higher resolution . But rendering methods that get data to the GPU quickly perform great . The more rendering work done in the background , the better . A well-designed PDF rendering engine will use idle time to generate image data that 's ready for the GPU . An engine that renders " on the fly " ( what I called " in real time " ) will choke . " Pre-rendering the entire PDF " means that instead of each page being converted to an image as you scroll through , the whole PDF is rendered and loaded into memory as an image . This takes more RAM but results in faster performance when scrolling and zooming . It takes 5-30 seconds ( or more ) to pre-render the whole file . Also , when zooming in , the image does not re-scale . ( Text portions of the PDF wo n't be crisp if you zoom in . ) Google Docs basically does this with PDFs if you want to see what I 'm talking about .
As of August 2013 , Exchange ActiveSync does n't support shared Exchange accounts . This is n't an iPhone issue , but rather with the ActiveSync protocol . One option would be to use Outlook Web Access to access the shared Exchange account . This would allow the team to do everything that you 've outlined here . Another option would be to set the individual Exchange accounts for the team to automatically copy mails from the shared account into a folder on the individual 's Exchange account . However , I do n't think that this will meet your needs , especially moving/deleting and responding to mails from the shared account . I mention it for the sake of completeness .
Just in case you were n't aware of these options , or have n't already tried this , you could change the Battery settings under Energy Saver . Your question does n't specify what version of macOS you 're using , but here are some generic steps : Go to System Preferences > Energy Saver Select the Battery tab Set Computer Sleep to Never Set Display Sleep to Never Set Graphics to Higher Performance Make sure Slightly dim the display when using this power source is unchecked Make sure Automatically reduce brightness before display goes to sleep is unchecked Exit System Preferences Let us know how you go .
This was covered by MG Siegler over at <URL> last week , the explanation of how it does it is <URL> . Basically , iOS provides it 's own Keychain functionality and if you know the Keychain key , then you can save and read data between apps that you write . In this case , the Facebook Camera app is reading data saved by the Facebook app .
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
The microphone and speakers on Apple laptops are located in the lower case , not in the display . What you are noticing are the permanent magnets installed in the display to keep the lid closed without a mechanical latch .
To code using Swift you 'll need Xcode 6 . Xcode 6 beta is compatible with Mavericks 10.9.3 and upwards so yes it is possible to write Swift code in Mavericks ! NB : As of July 11 , Xcode 6 beta is available freely on <URL> . <URL>
Yes , there is a Faces album which will show all recognised faces in your images .
Any Mac that has Firewire 800 , including the 13-inch MacBook Pro , has the 9-pin connector . You will need a 6-pin to 9-pin cable .
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
I used Active Sync since I got my very first iPhone , and switched to CardDAV the day Google announced support for it . I can say without a doubt CardDAV is the way to go With CardDAV , you will get you much more accurate synchronization than with Active Sync . First , as has been mentioned , you can synchronize more than 3 e-mail addresses . In fact , I have 31 e-mail addresses myself , and they finally all sync up with my iPhone . Even more importantly , two-way sync works now . If you make an edit on your iPhone , it wo n't clobber the field in your Google Contacts . For instance , editing e-mail addresses on your iOS device wo n't change their labels in Google Contacts to instead of , , and whatever custom fields you might have had . In particular , custom fields are preserved in both directions . This is especially important if you want to use Siri to " Send an e-mail to my brother " . The field in Google Contacts was not correctly imported into iOS through Active Sync , and if you allowed Siri to save who your brother was in your contacts , the import back into Google Contacts mangled everything up , including all other fields that you did not edit . Finally , phone numbers also all sync in both directions without trouble using CardDAV . To me , two-way editing ( or the lack thereof ) was the biggest problem with Active Sync . I never , ever edited any contacts on my iPhone using Active Sync because I did n't want to have to fix all the fields on a desktop later on . Now I can do it freely and have n't noticed any data corruption . The main gripe people have concerning CardDAV is the lack of push . However , for me Active Sync push was so slow anyway that the slight delay of Fetch barely makes a difference . Plus , my experience with the reliability of Push has been less than stellar ( connections that die and are never re-established , primarily ) . I 've found the polling model to be far more robust . What you may want to avoid while using CardDAV is updating a contact in Gmail or on your iPhone , then immediately updating the same contact in the other . This will likely cause one of your modifications to get overwritten by the modification made in the other direction . Update 1 : The one oddity I 've found in two-way syncing relates to the phone number type . For some reason it does n't sync correctly in either direction ( it becomes " Phone " on your iOS device when entered in Google Contacts , and in Google Contacts when entered from an iOS device ) . My only guess can be that the field has a special meaning to Google . Update 2 : There is another strangeness with the phone number type . It will make it to your iOS devices correctly if entered as such from Google Contacts . However , if you specify as a phone number type from an iOS device , Google Contacts will change that to . The iOS device that originally specified will retain it as its phone number type until that contact is updated again from either Google Contacts ( without first changing the phone number type to ) or from another iOS device . I recommend only entering as a phone number type from Google Contacts . Contacts with that phone number type should also only be edited from Google Contacts if you care about listing as their mobile phone number .
No - the IPA format does not make source code inclusion mandatory , so there 's no general way to do what you ask . As alluring as the idea is , just because something is possible on Android ( What you 're talking about is not in the sense you want it ) , does n't mean it will be possible on iOS . Now , if the developer decides to embed the source code into the IPA - you will be able to read it depending on the method of packaging it since the IPA contents are well documented by Apple on the developer site and many utilities exist to decode the application bundles .
So far , it 's not a feature of iOS . You need to a find ( web - ) app solution : e.g. . <URL>
The USB-to-30-pin-dock cables are electrically identical . All of them can carry enough charging current for both devices . The same is not true for the power sources as the iPad gets a 10W supply and the rest 5W . What power source are you using with the cables ? iPads need more power than most USB ports offer to charge with the screen on .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
You can scrape that information off photos on flickr taken with an iPhone 4S : <URL> Here are a few examples of extremes . The dark end seems to show a max ISO of 800 and max shutter of 1/15 , which several dark photos agreed with , and none of the ten I looked at went further , so here are two examples : <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 Looking at very bright photographs , I saw a few claiming very high shutter speeds ( 1/9259 and 1/2600 ) but none of them matched the same exif format for the shutter speed field as the rest of the iPhone 4S photos I reviewed , suggesting that these fields were modified in post processing . The lowest shutter speed I saw that matched the format of the other 4S exif files was 1/1842 , and the lowest ISO was 64 : <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 This should answer your question for highest and lowest ISO , and highest and lowest shutter speed . Keep in mind I only sampled a few dozen photos on flickr , it 's possible I missed the ends of the ranges . A random sampling from the " interesting " section , showing the mid range of shutter speed and ISO combinations : Shutter speed ISO 0.008 sec ( 1/122 ) 64 0.05 sec ( 1/20 ) 200 0.008 sec ( 1/120 ) 100 0.002 sec ( 1/550 ) 64 0.025 sec ( 1/40 ) 64 0.002 sec ( 1/464 ) 64 0.004 sec ( 1/242 ) 64 0.042 sec ( 1/24 ) 64 0.059 sec ( 1/17 ) 800 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640 0.006 sec ( 1/170 ) 64 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
You get two distinct , functioning displays unless you choose to mirror . Same with AirPlay . From <URL> : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution [ 2304 by 1440 ] on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on an external display , both at millions of colors
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
end question
start question
What is going wrong when Mountain Lion download does not start ?
There are two things that come to mind : The store is so busy that it 's not sending the data to your computer to start the download . The usual things have failed and you can jump start it by following some steps on troubleshooting an App Store download . Here are the self help steps : <URL>
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
See screenshot . Change the radio button for to . To access this screen , go to .
Apple decided not to include X11 in Mountain Lion : <URL> But there is now a native version of GIMP for mountain lion which requires no X11 : <URL> However , if you need to run the old version of GIMP you can download <URL> as mentioned in the apple support document linked above . When you try to run GIMP again , you can find Xquartz in Enjoy GIMP !
Airplay is n't a protected transfer mechanism , in the same way that playing ( for example ) a Blu Ray disc over a HDMI connection that supports HDCP . High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection ( HDCP ; commonly , though incorrectly , referred to as High-Definition Copy ( right ) Protection ) is a form of digital copy protection developed by Intel Corporation to prevent copying of digital audio and video content as it travels across connections . These connections include popular ones like DisplayPort ( DP ) , Digital Visual Interface ( DVI ) , and High-Definition Multimedia Interface ( HDMI ) The system is meant to stop HDCP-encrypted content from being played on devices that do not support HDCP or which have been modified to copy HDCP content . Before sending data , a transmitting device checks that the receiver is authorized to receive it . If so , the transmitter encrypts the data to prevent eavesdropping as it flows to the receiver . That 's pretty technical , but in short ( and this is not particular a developer choice , but the content owners choice ) if they can not guarantee that the content is fully secure end to end , they will not allow it to be transmitted . Airplay isn ; t fully secure to the same degree as the above , and so many contents owners will not agree to it 's use .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
can get confused if your short name is different between the two machines . You can check what your short name is on each machine with . To go to a particular account , use . If you still have trouble , use . You may see things like checking . If you want to avoid typing all of the time , you can make ( or add to ) the file with the lines editing each line for your particular case ( the is your nickname , the is the IP address , or mymac.local or whatever you currently use for ) . Then you can just use . If you still have trouble , post some output from but be careful to not post anything private ( like IP addresses ) .
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
On your iPhone , force close all the Apps in the multitask window . Depending on your version of iOS , you do the following : On iOS 7 and before : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Tap and hold on the app . When it starts to jiggle , tap the X to close it . Repeat until all the apps have been closed . On iOS 8 : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Swipe the application preview window upwards to close the app . ( you can close multiple apps at once ) Repeat until all the apps have been closed . Now do a Soft reset of your iPhone : Hold both Home and Sleep button for around 10secs until you see the Apple logo then release . After it returns to Home screen , connect to sync and see if this resolves the issue . Source : <URL>
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
Well - at the most basic level iOS and Mac OS X are the same kernel and startup processes using launchd and standard unix-heritage programs . iOS has full sandboxing and arguably tighter access control infrastructure to build up - so in some ways , iOS does more to start up than Mac OS X does . Once you add on mac things , of course it is more extensible so many people have much bigger loads to lift on an OS X reboot than an iOS boot . I would argue that all the above arguments are moot and to a first approximation , you are seeing the CPU capability of the Mac hardware shining as well as the read speed of the mac storage as opposed to the iOS storage and the effects of more RAM being a better advantage and more than offsetting the larger library and binary size on Mac OS X.
Do n't worry , the filesystem is really the same as in Lion . What you may have misunderstood is how the new iCloud integration works . Every app that supports it ( it may even be built-in if you use the system-standard open/save components , I 'm unsure ) will display an iCloud tab in the Open/Save dialogs , but this is in addition to the standard Finder hierarchy that 's been around forever . This new iCloud storage does n't allow nested folders , so you only get one level of hierarchy . The idea is to keep things simple à la iOS ( it looks like and is conceptually the same as organizing apps on iOS ) . For more detail and description , check out the <URL> section of <URL> 's Mountain Lion review at Ars Technica .
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
Order now . You 'll get Mountain Lion free no matter what , and it 's a pretty painless process to install , particularly on a clean computer . It 's probably a toss-up whether you 'll get Moutain Lion or not . It seems likely that it will be released before the end of the month , but when that image gets pushed to machines is anyone 's guess . And even if you do end up with Lion , that may be a blessing in that you can wait out any 1.0 bugs if they pop up . Ordering now gets you in the queue , and there 's virtually no downside to not having a copy pre-installed .
I 've had the same " need . " I guess we all do sooner or later . Here 's what I did . Card menu > Add Field > Dates . Then select the Date field drop down in the contact and select custom . You can also change the general new contact template in the same Cart menu . I hope this helps .
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
There is not a way to do this yet in FaceTime . Here 's the <URL> to a forum where they discuss how " neat " it would be to have this feature . The discussion is a month old , so fairly recent . As for Screen sharing , if you 're on the same network ( either routed , through a VPN , SSH tunnel , or direct connection ) then you just select the device in Finder , and choose screen sharing ( button in the upper right hand corner ) in the window that opens : The computer that is sharing its screen must have Screen sharing turned on ( check marked ) in System Settings > Sharing : Note mine is NOT check marked , so this computer would NOT share its screen using screen sharing . If you want to Screen share and you are NOT in the same Network , use Messages : Note Screen Sharing ( under the video drop down ) is enabled ( has a check mark next to it ) .
At the moment , the only free way for NTFS write access without using abandoned software is using <URL> along with <URL> . There 's a <URL> for that in the FUSE for OS X wiki . If you need NTFS writing a lot you might be better off using <URL> or <URL> , both commercial but more faster and more bulletproof solutions . As pointed out in the comments , there 's no write restriction for FAT32 volumes in OS X.
end question
start question
Do Mac Pros use NUMA ?
This is a partial answer The processors in the current mac pros use Xeon processors e5620 and x5670s with Intel 's QuickPath Interconnect QPI is Intel 's implementation of NUMA and takes place fully within the processor just as HyperTransport is AMDs I would have to admit in not being sure if that takes OSX out of the equation entirely or even mostly . Modern processor architecture has improved since the original NUMA concept that the original requirement for software support is probably , now , immaterial .
Here are two more options : Use a thunderbolt cable to transfer the data between the Macs . To do this , reboot the source Mac while pressing the " T " key . This will allow the destination Mac to access the hard drive directly . Depending on what is being migrated , the Migration Assistant may also be of use if transferring all the applications , one or more user directories , etc. to the other Mac . This works over Wifi/Ethernet , and over Thunderbolt
There are various ( hacky ) ways to do this eg <URL> But I would urge you to install VirtualBox in Mac OS X and then install Windows on that . You can run Windows full screen . It 's going to be very quick and allow you the best of both worlds . Best of all VirtualBox is free and available here <URL>
Any Mac that has Firewire 800 , including the 13-inch MacBook Pro , has the 9-pin connector . You will need a 6-pin to 9-pin cable .
Audacity can do this as far as I know . There is a White Noise generator , and under the Effects menu there is a " Noise Removal " option . I do n't know if you can do it in realtime , but you could make a short recording of the ambient noise , run the Noise Removal , figure out what got removed ( subtract before and after ) , and then play that part but inverted . Maybe ...
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
You should try opera <URL> it fast and works well . Caveat : Opera only works on Macs with Intel-based processors . If you have a PowerPC chip ( G5 ) , good luck . Opera 12 wo n't work .
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
<URL> is a great app for doing all of the command-line stuff necessary to enable Continuity , and it claims to be able to work with USB dongles .
My new Mac Pro has 6 " USB " busses , 12Mb/s , and two " USB High Speed " busses . 480 Mb/s . One of the " USB " busses shows Bluetooth on it , but none of the others seem to be in use . The external connectors belong to the two " High Speed " busses . Buss 0xfd has one of the front and two of the back connectors . Buss 0xfa has one of the front and one of the back connectors .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
In Finder , choose Go > Connect To Server ( command + K ) and type in the URL or IP for the server ( including the protocol if not afp ) .
There are several disadvantages : Most internet posts describing how to reinstall OS X miss the hardware specific diagnostic boot image that is stored on Recovery HD ( this has changed starting with El Capitan 10.11 ) . You will lose the iLife apps if you do n't first boot the factory OS and claim those redemptions to an Apple ID . The recovery boot is n't a deal breaker if you do n't mind using a generic internet recovery boot image when needed . Or you can find and reinstall the following folder on the ' Recovery HD ' : So , your call on what happens when pressing and holding the 'D ' button at startup . Losing iMovie , Photos ( or iPhotos if the Mac shipped with that as well/instead ) , GarageBand does n't matter if you purchased the hardware under a DEP program or do n't care to use those or already have them or do n't care to spend money later to buy them as needed .
When an interface self-assigns an IP it generally means the interface is n't getting any response from your router or DHCP server . This is a feature of OS X to let the machines build an adhoc network when they can not determine the actual network they 're on -- you can put a bunch of Macs on a dumb hub and almost get them to self-organize and function with this feature . Your router and DHCP server are going to see the MAC address listed for the device in the Network Preferences pane . Go to and click on your Thunderbolt interface . Click on the button and then on the tab : That 's the MAC address that your interface is broadcasting on the network when it 's trying to acquire an IP on your network from your DHCP server .
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
Both <URL> and <URL> allow your Mac to act as an Airplay receiver for audio or video . I 'm not aware of an app that specializes in audio only Airplay , but either of those should do what you need .
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
From the Apple Support database article <URL> : If you connect to the Internet or a network in several different ways ( using Wi-Fi or Ethernet , for example ) , you can change the order of the network port configurations your computer tries when connecting to the Internet or network . If there are multiple active network port configurations when you try to connect , OS X tries the one at the top of the list first , and then tries the other port configurations in descending order . In that support article it is also described how you can change the priority order of network connections in System Preferences .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
end question
start question
Rubberized stylus , not moving smooth on iPad glass , any tricks ?
I think most of these answers are pure speculation and the long term effects on your iPad 's screen are at question . I would suggest that you simply look to replace the stylus as it has evidently worn out . It may be that they are not very durable products , but I certainly would n't recommend trying to hack a solution over just buying a new stylus .
On your iPad , go to Settings → General → Storage &amp; iCloud Usage → Manage Storage → Music . <URL> From there , you can either Edit or directly swipe left on any artist to delete all their songs . If you just want to delete individual albums or songs , you can drill down by tapping an artist or album , respectively , then swipe left to delete each item one by one . If you want to go thermonuclear , you can simply swipe left on All Songs . Do note that this operation takes some time to complete , up to several minutes . So just let iOS do its work , and soon enough you should have your storage back . Once you 're done , in order to keep songs from being downloaded in the future , go back to Settings → iTunes &amp; App Store , then toggle Music Off under AUTOMATIC DOWNLOADS . <URL>
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
As with the iPhone , if you shake the iPad vigorously , you get offered the choice of : Undo Cancel For me , this does n't feel at all natural on the iPad , and I imagine that 's why some iPad applications ( e.g. Textastic ) provide their own Undo/Redo buttons . Edit Thanks to @Lizzan for also pointing out in the comments : There 's also an Undo button in the bottom left on the numerical keyboard - makes a bit more sense than shaking the iPad .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
The digitiser is built into the glass with epoxy , so no , there is no way to separate it . <URL> . If you look at the lower left corner of the LCD you can see the scarring of our attempts to seperate the LCD from the digitizer . Source : <URL>
I think most of these answers are pure speculation and the long term effects on your iPad 's screen are at question . I would suggest that you simply look to replace the stylus as it has evidently worn out . It may be that they are not very durable products , but I certainly would n't recommend trying to hack a solution over just buying a new stylus .
The onscreen iPad keyboard offers no way to ( re ) orient your fingers to the home keys , which makes touch typing nearly impossible in my experience . However , with practice many iPad owners become skilled at using the onscreen keyboard well . If you absolutely need to touch type longer documents , you can <URL> with the iPad . I rarely carry the external keyboard when I 'm out and about , but if I plan to settle in to write I toss it in my bag and when traveling I keep one in my hotel room for evening writing marathons .
In the Finder in Mac OS X , press Command-Shift-G to Go to folder . Type . This will take you to the " Volumes " folder . If your iDevice is mounted as a drive , it will appear here . You can select it and press Command-E to eject it . If it does not appear here , it is not mounted as a drive , and you can simply unplug it . Note that it may or may not appear on your Desktop or in a Finder sidebar depending on your settings , but it should always appear in the folder . On Windows , in the system tray , there is an icon you can click to " Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media . " Right-click the icon , find the name of your iOS device , and click it to eject it . If it does not appear on this list , it is not mounted as a drive and you can simply unplug it .
Ok , solution found on an old superuser question , posting here for posterity . <URL> I got <URL> . I ran that on the compact setting ( required restarting into it 's own special mode , but no disk burning was needed ) . A few hours later I tried to resize the partition and it worked fine .
I think you might be talking about the Notification Center . Does it look like the pictures in this <URL> page ? If so , go to Settings - > Notifications - > Calendar , and turn off ' Notification Centre ' .
There is no keypress or gesture to do this unfortunately . But here is a quick way to achieve a similar thing . Create a new bookmark in safari ( of any web page ) Edit this bookmark ( press edit in bookmark screen ) Rename the bookmark to End In the address field cut and paste this text Once you save this bookmark , you will be able to hit the bookmark button , select End and it will take you to the bottom of the web page . I know it 's not as simple as the current scroll to top feature ( this solution requires two taps ) , but its really the only option at the moment .
The charger is 10W like the old iPad . It 's called iPad 10W USB Power Adapter and has product number MC359LL . Specs and QnA are available at the Apple US <URL> .
Enable Disk Access was a feature on the iPods , but has never been an option on the iPhone , iPod Touch , or iPad .
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
This OSXDaily article <URL> describes a method of doing this . You may have noticed that when you log out or reboot Mac OS X Lion , you get a dialog window with a checkbox next to " Reopen windows when logging back in " that restores all of your currently open applications and windows . If you do n't like it and you 're tired of unchecking the box to no longer reopen the windows , you can use a third party script to render the feature useless . To clarify , what this does is disable the feature completely on a constant basis , regardless of whether that checkbox to preserve windows is checked or not , the windows will not restore . Type the following command to download the script , place it in the appropriate location , make it executable , run it , then remove it : The content of the script is for those who want to know what 's being executed and/or do it manually is : Finally , if you want to go back to normal resume behaviour type :
This is a limitation of the iPad screen . No stylus will feel like a real pen . Future versions will likely have more sensitive screens . The best you can do is think of it as a giant index card and a fat marker . The Wacom software improves the situation a tiny bit by having the zoom mode when writing . You can find other software that allows more zoom , which would make the final product look like a normal page of text , but the act of writing will not be improved .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
we called Apple they said we need to re-set the iPad
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
end question
start question
Should I use time machine to migrate from one mac to another ?
I would n't recommend a full restore , assuming it 's even possible ( Apple can sometimes be a bit funky about system releases on new machines ) . What you should do is a home directory migration , which I believe you can do from your time machine backup with Migration Assistant when you set up the new machine . What you want to be careful to do to be as seamless as possible is make sure your new user account has the same shortname as your existing one . That should clear up any snafus you might have with migrating Eclipse as well ( I think I saw a related issue for Eclipse on Super User that suggested this . )
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
When an interface self-assigns an IP it generally means the interface is n't getting any response from your router or DHCP server . This is a feature of OS X to let the machines build an adhoc network when they can not determine the actual network they 're on -- you can put a bunch of Macs on a dumb hub and almost get them to self-organize and function with this feature . Your router and DHCP server are going to see the MAC address listed for the device in the Network Preferences pane . Go to and click on your Thunderbolt interface . Click on the button and then on the tab : That 's the MAC address that your interface is broadcasting on the network when it 's trying to acquire an IP on your network from your DHCP server .
Enable " Remote Login " in the preferences of the target/remote mac . Then use with user being the short name of the remote user . You will be asked for the password of the user on remotehost . If you want to avoid using passwords , you can set up ssh key pairs . See <URL> for details .
It took me a little while to find the " Encrypt backup disk " checkbox , so I thought an answer explaining that may save you some time . Press the " Select Disk ... " button in the Time Machine System Preferences panel , and the " Encrypt backup disk " checkbox is enabled when you select a disk . I decided not to encrypt my Drobo after reading <URL> 's important note about not being able to use an encrypted disk with older versions of OS X than Lion . But I was curious to see if Apple would warn me : ( See also " <URL> " . )
iMore provides a <URL> to restore an old backup onto a new watch that I have summarized below . The first step is to unpair the old watch from your phone . As part of that , a backup of your watch 's information and settings will be created on the phone . Next , pair your new watch following the normal procedures - launch the Apple Watch app , tap Start Pairing , and align the watch in the viewfinder . On the following screen it will state " Your Apple Watch Is Paired . " From here , tap on Restore from Backup , and you should be given the option of the backup you made when unpairing the old watch . Tap on that . You will then need to agree with the terms and conditions , as well as enter your Apple ID username and password . Tap through the remaining screens of setting options , including a passcode , and finally it will begin the process of restoring your backup , which may take several minutes . Once the restore is complete , you will have your new watch set up with all your settings and data .
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
A quick search gave me two promising applications : Commercial : <URL> Freeware : <URL> I believe that both do what you want .
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
Try the <URL> first . It will move everything you need from your old mac . ( OS 10.6.8 or later ) Many applications have data in the / Library/Application Support folder or the ~ / Library/Application Support folder as well as prefeferences and other scattered support files that would all need to be moved .
There are 3 options I can think of , all of which rely on your setup/tools you have . For this , I am also assuming you are working with Mac servers . Apple Remote Desktop and Scheduled Tasks iCal and alarms the bash ' at ' command . Apple Remote Desktop ARD will allow you to run tasks on remote machines , and they can be either done instantly or at a scheduled future time . You could create your task that you need to run , click on the machine you want to run it on , select the task , then schedule it for when needed . This queues up the task for that time . More details on how to use ARD to do this are available on <URL> . I no longer have ARD to verify , but I think the remote task is queued on that machine , and therefore ARD does not need to be running on your machine to run the update . iCal and Alarms iCal will allow you to add an event that can execute a script at a defined time . You do this by adding an event in iCal , and where the Alarm option is for the event , you can select Run Script , and then pull up the AppleScript you would like to run . There are pitfalls with this . The local computer you are on ( that had iCal ) would need to be able to connect to the remote machine , and most likely be awake ( I have not tested if this will wake the machine to run ) . This is also much less reliable than the ARD or ' at ' option ( I assume this was made for users to simply automate something on their machine , versus a sysadmin tool ) . The ' at ' command The bash ' at ' command will allow you to run a task at a specified time . You will need to make a bash shell script for your task , and then save it , as well as set the correct execution/permission settings . Once that is done , you can use the ' at ' command to schedule it , using something like : The script should then execute and send you feedback if mail is set up correctly . <URL> , you need to make sure you enable ' at ' on the Mac though , using the following command : I would <URL> ( using ) to determine the exact configuration you prefer . Using this option though , you can schedule the task on the particular machine you want to run on , therefore taking extra machines ( like the previous two examples ) out of the equation .
You can only sync local music ( music that exists in the iTunes library on the computer you sync your iPhone with ) .
The simplest way is for you to note the date and time of your last backup in Time Machine on OS X Mountain Lion . You can get back to it at any point in time in the future just by restoring to the backup with that date/time ( this will remain on the disk as long as you have adequate space so that Time Machine does not delete these older versions ) . You can easily find this date and time by navigating into the " Backups.backupdb " folder on the Time Machine disk and looking at the timestamp for the " Latest " folder ( it is actually a link - so you can even open it to see the latest backup folder name with the date and time ) . If you do not wish to note down the date and time of your last backup with OS X Mountain Lion , the next simplest way is to change the computer name either on the Mac on OS X Mavericks before you do your first Time Machine backup on it or on the Time Machine backup disk for the older backup . In either case , this will make Time Machine create a new folder with the new machine name on the disk and it will do a full backup the first time ( so you need adequate disk space to hold almost two copies of your Mac ) . This way , you can restore from the old or new backup in the future ( if you rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk , then you would have to revert that to do a full restore of the old system ) . To change your computer name , go to System Preferences > Sharing and edit the Computer Name : text . OR To rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk instead , use the following command in Terminal.app : Substitute the following in the above command before running it : < TMDiskName > is the name of the Time Machine volume name < ComputerName > is the current computer name ( which you will continue using for OS X Mavericks ) < OSXMountainLionBackupComputerName > is the name of the snapshot for you to do a full restore from in the future ( you would have to rename it back using a similar command as above before the full restore )
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
Yes , you can add the second Mac once the first has completed . While one is currently uploading , I think the others can only be linked and start viewing .
Technically it would be possible to trick the MacBook Pro to think another device is actually a different device to what it is ( e.g. that a connected MacBook is in fact an iPhone ) . However , this would not achieve the goal of charging one MacBook from another MacBook . According to Apple : MacBook Pro ( 15-inch , Late 2016 ) and MacBook ( 13-inch , Late 2016 , Four Thunderbolt 3 Ports ) can power two devices that use up to 15 watts , and two more devices that use up to 7.5 watts . It does n't matter which side of your MacBook Pro that they 're connected to -- power is delivered on a first-come , first-served basis . Source : <URL> MacBooks typically require in the range of 55 watts to 90 watts of power in order to charge ( depending on the model , e.g. the late-2016 13 " MacBook Pros require 60 watts , while the 15 " models require 85 watts ) . As a result , the amount of power being delivered from the MBP via it 's ThunderBolt ports would not be enough to charge another MacBook .
You can drill down into the Time Machine folder hierarchy just like any other disk ... [ Time Machine Drive ] > Backups.backupd > [ Computer name ] > Latest - then you 're into the old hierarchy as it was on your previous system . if Latest has been overwritten by the new system then you 'd have to dig by date or use search .
end question
start question
Is there a way to pickup iPhone calls on my Macbook Pro ?
This is a feature apple brought with the lastest OS X : OS X Yosemite . OS X Yosemite is still a beta and will be released publicly in fall 2014 .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
I do n't believe so . The available API for battery state in iOS gives you only 5 % resolution . It might be possible to write an app that polls battery state and calculates a rate of charge based on the time between 5 % intervals but I do n't know of any apps that do this . If you want to get your app on the app store that 's about the best way of measuring it directly . I know of an app that captures the screen and looks at the battery charge image to determine charge an alternative way but that 's iffy , the size or appearance of the battery indicator might change between versions and then it breaks . Jailbroken devices are a whole other can of worms . I know how to get 1 % resolution on devices with a private API but you ca n't get such an app on the store so distribution is going to be limited . BTW your terminology is a bit confusing . " Current " would be the right term , less commonly " amperage " . I had to read a couple of times through to work it out , I thought you were talking about music volume at first .
Not out of the box , but there might be an app for that . What I would recommend is simply installing a VNC app on both devices - something like TeamViewer or LogMeIn . Then , you can use your iPhone to navigate the system menu like you normally would .
You will have to edit the files with a text ( or xml ) editor . First make a backup of the app ( especially for Finder ) , then go into the bundle contents and find the or . This will probably be in the folder . Most likely , this file will be called . However , Finder 's is and some apps , like Firefox , wo n't have one at all . The nib file can be converted to XML with . Then you can open it in the text editor of your choice . Just command ⌘ + F ( or control ⌃ + S ) for the menu name you want to change . It should look something like this : Edit the string at the top . This is actually the Interface Builder connection between the menu item of that name and the Objective-C selector/method that it calls . Save the nib and relaunch the application ( with Force Quit or for Finder ) and you should have the different name showing up .
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
The only way I can think of is run an script with an handler that periodically checks to see if the server is available and if so executes another script or another portion of the same script .
It is very likely that the iTunes store in your country ( Brazil after your profile ) does not have all the apps from the US AppStore . Developers can choose if they want to make their app available in all or just some countries . Since the website of Apple shows the content of the US AppStore by default it might have led you to believe that you can buy the app with your account .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
Not currently , but I 'd assume Google is working on that to eventually allow you to . Offline editing is n't currently supported . <URL>
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
You could : Sell it : <URL> is a good place to sell old gadgets . Use it as a regular iPod Touch ( I gave my old iPhone to my teen to watch iTunes U videos for school ) . <URL> Test Custom Apps Turn it into a neat personal project ( remote control cars/planes , house automation ) . Blog about it too . Donate it Replace your car stereo ( this one is fun ) . Make it your portable DVR ; load it with your favorite shows and watch them when you have time ( I know you can do this with you new iPhone , but it 'll save on battery life if you use a second device ) . High tech alarm clock ( I know , that one 's silly ) . Sorry if I repeated any suggestions . I was doing a quick brainstorm . It 's fun finding new ways to use old gadgets . Good luck and let us know what you do .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
Nothing shipping immediately , however Sonnet did announce a <URL> that you could pair with a Firewire ExpressCard to give yourself some Firewire capabilities . Their site claims it will start to ship by December 14 , 2011 . At one point a direct Thunderbolt to Firewire adapter was announced , but I ca n't find any concrete info on it , so I would n't count on it appearing any time soon . Overall Thunderbolt support from anyone other than Apple has been pretty slow to take off . There have been some suggestions that Intel was slow releasing final specs for manufacturers and/or getting production hardware out the door . I 've also read that some manufacturers may be waiting for the 2nd generation of cheaper Thunderbolt chips to ship sometime in 2012 . Lots of promise in the technology , and I think it will take off sooner or later , but it 's still in the early stages unfortunately .
Probably not , but you can use the ExpressCard slot instead The model you mentioned ( 17 " MacBookPro8 ,3 late 2011 ) does seem to have a separate Wifi/bluetooth assembly , but you 'll probably have a very hard time finding a matching replacement in both size and connection . I did n't find a disassembled 17 " model , but the card in the 15 " of the same generation <URL> ( 4 antenna connectors and what is probably some sort of PCI Express cable ) . However , since yours is a 17 " , it does have an ExpressCard slot , where you can stick in a Wifi card of your choosing ( <URL> ) without even having to take the whole machine apart . Or patch around your Linux kernel with one of the BCM4331 drivers that are out there , but I assume you 've already tried that .
To enable a retina eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist . Just above Place this : Then , log out or make a copy of the app so that OS X will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
end question
start question
Why does OS X warn me before running an app downloaded from the Internet ?
Okay , I 'm going to chime in . Firstly , let 's look at your first question : Why does OS X warn a user before they launch it for the very first time ? OS X had instituted the added precaution for one important reason : so that apps would n't seemingly launch on their own . Obviously it would be crippling to workflow if the confirmation popped up every time the app was launched , so a first-time only policy was instituted . And that seems to be sufficient if you give it some thought , as that means any app that runs without the confirmation has already been approved once before , thus making it a " trusted " application . The implications here are n't measurable beyond this simple strategy . Apple wanted some assurance that programs would n't just be run without a level of consent . If they somehow happened to find their way on a user 's machine , they would n't be thought of as something " old " or something " trusted . " It 's not meant as a total safe-guard against malware , but rather almost as an important training tool . It gets the user to understand that OS X monitors these things . And that if an app is run , the system will be there to provide a little protection . If a user stumbles on a strange file somewhere , and double clicks on it , the system will check to see if it meets certain criteria . If it does , it 'll notify the user that it 's never been launched and is to be deemed " potentially " dangerous . It is then to the user to decide if they should run . It is a safeguard that does more to for user behavior than actual , hardcore system protection . So it 's not that there is a definitive threat . It is more a user-land security measure and perhaps even to be better thought of as a " pre-emptive " strike . To label it a clear cut case of either implement a security measure for a specific threat or axe it does n't apply in this case ( for the reason 's above ) . Think of it more along the vein of Apple being pro-active ( and quite clever ) . And it 's not that obtrusive is it ? Windows gives warnings each and every time . OS X delivers one just on the first run . It 's a sane compromise . Now , to get to the second tail of your query ( and excuse me if I 'm paraphrasing here , but I think this is what you 're driving at ) : Why does n't OS X have an anti-virus program to deal with these threats instead ? First , I think it 's important to square away the terminology . There are no known viruses that have propagated into the wild for OS X. OS X is based on a Unix structure , which poses a seriously problem for virus-makers . In a nutshell ( and excuse the oversimplification ) Windows marks everything with executable rights . From images , to text files , to even music . This is ultimately what allows virus-makers to , for a lack of a better term , go to town . Unix does n't exhibit this trait . It 's crafty with its privileges . So the likelihood that OS X ( and all Unix-based systems for that matter ) will ever need an anti-virus <URL> . Windows and Unix are fundamentally very different . Essentially , if you wanted to get a virus on OS X , you 'd require either root access or significant user activity . You could not deliver and run it from simply opening up an <URL> . Now that does not speak towards security , per se . OS X is not any more secure than Windows and this is a common misperception . This of course depends on your definition of security . It is largely immune to viruses ( I use the term " immune " loosely here ) but it is still susceptible to buffer-overlows that can allow root access . <URL> has razed OS X in seconds numerous times at the <URL> competition . He 's a masterful security researcher , but putting that aside , he shows that OS X ( along with pretty much everything else ) is not an iron horse . It can be exploited just like every other system . But the chances of being targeted by <URL> are rather slim . You 'll likely face a gauntlet of script-kiddies that pack ready-made tools that serve more to aggravate than deliver a focused attack . To this day , only one has managed to make the rounds -- enough to force Apple to step up it 's security measures : <URL> . And even with Mac Defender 's seaming success , it still required the user to navigate through a series of prompts via its native OS X installer ( note that later versions did n't require an administrative password ) . So you have to take the " success " of Mac Defender with a grain of salt . It was likely successful because it was the first of its kind , and exploited more the user 's blind faith in OS X than the system itself . People readily installed it thinking they were safe from harm because they are n't running Windows . So in closing , OS X does not require an anti-virus because quite simply , there are no known viruses making their way out in the wild . Proof-of-concepts do exist , but again , the likelihood that they will one day wreak havoc is very remote simply because propogation is incredibly difficult to sustain . Malware , on the other hand , has shown itself to be a cause for concern . OS X now contains a built in safety feature
This could get very technical but the answer is actually relatively straightforward . The act of " ripping " takes place in 2 stages , reading the source material , and writing out a converted version of same . For music this is straightforward , mainly because the technology is old enough to predate stuff that was later incorporated into DVDs . Music CDs do not have any form of encryption . The data is laid bare for you to use as you see fit . This means anyone can read it without requiring the use of a licensed decoder which you can them laden with prohibitions on use . Once you can read it , you can convert it , so long as you have a suitable encoder , which Apple provides to allow encoding into the formats you list . For a movie , this is different . The source material is encrypted and copy protected in a way that Music CDs never were , and never will be . This means you need a licensed decoder just to be able to read them . The terms of the license will often dictate that you can only decode for playback , and not for conversion . Most often this is purely a legal distinction , and not a technical one . Obviously Apple have to abide by the terms of these licenses or they could not provide you with them , and as such they will not allow you to subsequently decode a film , then instead of watching it immediately encode ( rip ) it into a different format . They do provide an encoding mechanism for movies , but it will only work on unencrypted and decoded files . Of course , there is nothing to stop other programs that Apple do not supply from ignoring such paper restrictions ( or providing replacement decoders that are less inhibited in what they allow ) , and happily ripping away .
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
The Kindle app stores <URL> files , but only downloads them for Amazon-purchased content that you have opened in the Kindle app on that computer . The AZW files are saved in ~ / Documents/My Kindle Content . Their names are random-looking ( like B0043M4ZH0_EBOK ) , so it takes a little work to figure out which file corresponds to which book . Here 's how you do that : Open the book of interest on Amazon.com ( make sure you 're looking at the Kindle edition ) . It 's URL will be something like this : , but all you 're interested in is the code after . In this case , it 's . So , you know that the AZW file with the name B0043M4ZH0_EBOK is The Ultimate Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy .
In general all programs call on the operating system to do things . These are the API - application programming interface . Lion changes some API , adds new ones , and deletes old ones . The biggest problem is when a program needs an API that is now gone . The second issue is when things change . Lastly , when a new feature like Mission Control is introduced , perhaps the older program is n't expecting it 's windows to be moved around in that manner . The assumptions made by a developer can turn out to no longer be true which will cause little or big glitches . Also - programs that do n't use API but just react to things as they are can break when those things move . For example - if a program assumed ~ / Library is visible - then it would clearly break when running on a clean version of Lion . Device drivers change - that can cause errors . Lastly , entire compatibility layers like Rosetta are dropped .
If by reinstall the OS , you simply mean reinstall it and not run first-time setup , the resulting installation will not be associated with you in any way . If you intend to run first-time setup , obviously do not login with your Apple ID during that process , and of course do n't input any personally-identifiable information either . There is metadata in a receipt file in the installer file itself that is associated with your Apple ID . That is not transferred to the resulting installation , though .
These are U + fb01 and fb02 , Latin Small Ligature Fl and Fi . They are in Unicode really only because they were contained in legacy 8 bit character sets like MacRoman , but should no longer be used for anything . In modern technology such ligatures are created by fonts on the basis of the underlying codes for the separate characters , which is what should aways be input in place of option shift 5/6 .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mac is not available for the latest OS X versions ( beyond OS X 10.4 ) as it was effectively replaced by Safari in 2003 . As the Wikipedia page for <URL> explains : As a result of the five-year agreement between Apple and Microsoft in 1997 , it was the default browser on Mac OS and Mac OS X from 1998 until it was replaced by Apple 's own Safari web browser in 2003 . On June 13 , 2003 , Microsoft announced that it was ceasing further development of Internet Explorer for Mac and the final update was released on July 11 , 2003 . The browser was not included in the default installation of Mac OS X v10 .4 " Tiger " which was released on April 29 , 2005 . Microsoft discontinued support for the product on December 31 , 2005 and removed the application from their Macintosh downloads site on January 31 , 2006 . Microsoft recommends " that users migrate to more recent web browsing technologies such as Apple 's Safari . " Your best bet is to download the <URL> and run it in a Virtual Machine ( using something like <URL> or <URL> ) . Alternatively , the OSXDaily article on <URL> describes a way to do this ( I 've not used it myself , but this does appear to circumvent the Windows 30-day trial period by using snapshots and possibly to comply with the EULA you should purchase a Windows licence and use that in a VM with a downloaded version of IE , as above , instead ) : We 're going to walk you through how to install Internet Explorer 7 , 8 , or 9 in a virtual machine running Windows , directly in Mac OS X -- for free . This is achieved by using the freely available VirtualBox software from Oracle , and combining that with free Internet Explorer testing virtual machines from Microsoft , the trick is converting these free IE vm 's so that they work flawlessly under OS X ( or Linux , technically ) , and that is all handled automatically with this method .
As for total size , that is difficult to say . I got my GarageBand instrument , sample library and loop files from an iLife DVD installation a few years ago , rather than downloading them from the Mac App Store , which is the only way to get them today . It 's my understanding that when you first purchase and install GarageBand from the Mac App Store , you do not get all the musical instrument sample libraries and loop libraries that are listed in GarageBand 's indexes . If you try to select an instrument or loop from an index and it is not found on your Mac , then you are prompted to download another large section of the libraries . Then there are the music lessons , which you must purchase one at a time , download and install . My basic installation for GarageBand instruments and music lessons in ~ / Library/Application Support/GarageBand is 2.74 GB . The loops for GarageBand are stored in ~ / Library/Audio/Apple Loops / , and my installation is 629.9 MB . However I do not believe that I have downloaded the whole set . At an Apple retailer where I have worked , their installation in ~ / Library/Application Support/GarageBand is 14.57 GB , and their installation in ~ / Library/Audio/Apple Loops / is 32GB . This includes the GarageBand-compatible instruments and loops that you get when you purchase <URL> , which you can get from the Mac App Store for $ 30 . However , this does not include all the music lessons you can purchase within GarageBand . Furthermore , you can purchase all sorts of Audio Unit-format effects , musical instruments , sample libraries and loop libraries from third parties that you can use within Garage Band or Logic , so you could add many hundreds of gigabytes of additional material if you want to . It is worth mentioning that electronic musicians who work with large libraries of virtual instruments , samples and loops in GarageBand or other similar programs invariably move all such libraries to external high-speed disk drives so as not to slow down their systems with too much read-write activity on the system hard drive . If your work with GarageBand is simple enough -- not too many tracks in a mix -- you can work with just your Mac and system hard drive . But if you discover that Garageband is glitching , hiccuping , or failing to record or edit correctly , or you get errors about input and output being too slow , you need to incorporate additional high-speed hard disks into your system . It 's a general principle that you need at least three hard drives : your system drive inside your Mac , which holds Mac OS X and the GarageBand app an external high-speed hard drive for sample libraries , virtual instruments and loop libraries another external high-speed hard drive for recording and mixing audio tracks . All of these have to be interfaced with a high-speed interface such as FireWire 800 , USB 3.0 , or Thunderbolt . USB 2.0 will not work , because it is not fast enough for composing , recording and mixing music and audio .
can get confused if your short name is different between the two machines . You can check what your short name is on each machine with . To go to a particular account , use . If you still have trouble , use . You may see things like checking . If you want to avoid typing all of the time , you can make ( or add to ) the file with the lines editing each line for your particular case ( the is your nickname , the is the IP address , or mymac.local or whatever you currently use for ) . Then you can just use . If you still have trouble , post some output from but be careful to not post anything private ( like IP addresses ) .
It depends on why the application is " Not Responding " . An application in this state is not replying to UI events sent by the system . So nothing you do in the UI is getting through , which limits your options . I know of three scenarios in which a " Not Responding " ( aka " hung " ) application can be resurrected , with the possibility to recover your data . The most common cause of an application hang is heavy disk contention . This usually resolves itself if you wait long enough , but it can take minutes in extreme situations . Quitting all other applications , especially those using a lot of memory , can speed up this recovery . Less common is an application which hangs because of a problem with a disk . This is actually not so rare if you are accessing a network mounted disk , but it can also happen with any external hard-drive . In the case of network disk , you can try to unmount it , or change your network location to disable networking as a way to forcibly unmount it . In the case of a physical disk , try unplugging it ( obviously as a last resort ) . Once the disk device is forcibly removed from the system , the application may be able to resume operation ... or it may crash . Much more rare is an application which spawns a sub-process and then hangs because that process does something unexpected . For example , I have seen Safari hang due to problems QuickTime and WebKit sub-processes . Finding and killing the right sub-process may free up the main application . But you need to be fairly comfortable with the terminal , the " ps " command , and tracking down parent process ids . Figuring out exactly why an application is hung involves a lot of poking around at the unix level to see what the process state is . Tools like " ps " , " top " , and " lsof " can be helpful . But hopefully the tips above can get you pointed in the right direction .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
With Xcode 4.3 , Apple has moved the content of / Developer to the usual places for applications etc. . Filemerge is accessible by starting Xcode and then accessing Xcode - > Open Developer Tool . If it 's not listed there , select " More Developer Tools " to install it . Physically it 's part of Xcode.app ( ) and can be executed stand-alone by inspecting the package content of Xcode.app . If you really need it outside of Xcode often , you can also create an alias/symlink to start it directly ( or just drag it into the Dock ) .
This is a widely-reported bug in some App Store installers . It sees the process and displays this error , even though that process is not controlled by the user . You can open Activity Monitor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) , find the process and kill it with the Quit Process button in the top-left corner . You can also instead open Terminal ( also in / Applications/Utilities ) , enter the following line and press enter to kill it .
For Spotlight there is n't really a difference between AquaTerm , Terminal and iTerm when searching for " term " . All three names match the search term , there is no such notion as better Spotlight " learns " your preferences over time . So if you keep searching for " term " and then always select " Terminal.app " as result it will reorder the result list over time
Nope , the latest versions of the AppleTV have 8GB of storage however the device does n't allow the user to view or modify anything about the status storage ( at least in a stock state ) . During the introduction of the first all black AppleTV Steve Jobs said , People do n't want to think about managing storage , they just want to watch movies and TV shows .
end question
start question
Where do you get games for the click wheel iPods ?
Open the iTunes store , click the triangle at the end of the App Store tab at the top , and choose iPod Click Wheel Games from the very bottom .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Passbook is only for the iPhone and iPod Touch . The following is taken from the <URL> : ... you can scan your iPhone or iPod touch to check in for a flight , get into a movie , and redeem a coupon ...
It 's highly doubtful that it would work with a guest account , since everything is deleted upon logout . If you created a " friends " user account with no password and gave them " standard " user access , it might be possible ( though it certainly wo n't be pretty ) . First , because Valve apparently has no idea how easy it is to use to broadcast messages between user accounts , they 've set the Steam app up to prohibit multiple instances from running . In other words , for a guest to be able to launch Steam.app in the friends user account , it can not be running in any other user account . If it is , you 'd have to go into that user account first to quit it , then go back to the friends user account . ( It honestly takes about 10 lines of code to have Steam broadcast a message to all other user accounts that the Steam that you 're launching now is in control , and all other instances could quit themselves , but Valve is fairly challenged with such things ) . So , provided it is n't running in another user account , it would work . However , given the ridiculous amount of files and data Steam wants to be able to write to inside its own application bundle ( inside the Steam.app bundle ) , you might be better off creating a separate copy of the application altogether , specifically for that user . Reason being , the Steam application will take on the ownership of whoever first installed it , and when another user tries to use it , they wo n't have write permissions to the application bundle . You could also try modifying the bundle to give it less restrictive permissions . ( This whole thing could be handled by using a simple , privileged helper tool ) . So , provided you have a copy of Steam which the friends ' user account has write access to , then we move on to the real fun , which is the several GB worth of . gcf files that make up the content of the game . By default , the game files are stored in : / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam/SteamApps / Since one user does n't have access to another user 's files ( for obvious reasons ) , you would need to re-download all of the needed files , or copy them over from the other user account . You could also try re-locating the SteamApps folder to a common location that all users have access to , such as the / Applications / folder . ( I 've written an application that helps with creating the symbolic link after the relocation process : <URL> ) . You 'll then run into the same issues with permissions as with the app itself , so you 'd need to change them to make sure they 're writable to the users in question . For a guest account , it might work if you had everything in a central location , and then had a global login item or a launchd job in the / Library/LaunchAgents / folder that would perform a couple of operations in the guest user account upon login . It would need to copy the files inside the / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam / that are responsible for saving the Steam user account and password to the guest user 's Application Support folder , so that the user would be able to login automatically without having to enter your Steam ID and password each time . It would also need to make sure there was a " SteamApps " symbolic link inside the / Users / < guest > / Library/Application Support/Steam / to point to the location of the game content files . In short , what you would like to do , i.e. be able to play Steam games from another user account on the same Mac , is a perfectly reasonable desire . As far as I know , it 's something that is already possible in the Windows version of Steam , without having to jump through 100 hoops first . It 's also something that 's entirely possible for them to have done in the Mac OS X version by using a central data location along with a privileged helper tool ( I 've been using such an approach in my own application for the last 7 years and it works well ) . In its current implementation , however , it 's not possible to do this in the Mac version without some pretty ugly workarounds .
It 's hard to say , considering we do n't have access to any material on it other than the website and the keynote . It 's likely you 've already reviewed all public material on the device . To quote the bottom of <URL> , emphasis added : Features are subject to change and may not be available in all regions or all languages . Requires iPhone 5 or later . I bet the watch ca n't even be activated without an iPhone . Due to power requirements of Wifi , I doubt the device will carry an 802.11 radio , preferring to get it 's data through the phone . ( This answer is entirely speculation and may be invalidated as we learn more about the device . )
This uses the airport CLI , with the flag to show information and grep for SSID shows the name of the network .
The iPod touch 4th gen should allow you to do the following : <URL> With A2DP : This profile defines how high quality audio ( stereo or mono ) can be streamed from one device to another over a Bluetooth connection . For example , music can be streamed from a mobile phone , to a wireless headset , hearing aid &amp; cochlear implant streamer , or car audio or from a laptop/desktop to a wireless headset . With AVRCP : This profile is designed to provide a standard interface to control TVs , Hi-fi equipment , etc. to allow a single remote control ( or other device ) to control all of the A/V equipment to which a user has access . It may be used in concert with A2DP or VDP . With PAN : This profile is intended to allow the use of Bluetooth Network Encapsulation Protocol on Layer 3 protocols for transport over a Bluetooth link . With HID : Provides support for devices such as mice , joysticks , keyboards , as well as sometimes providing support for simple buttons and indicators on other types of devices . It is designed to provide a low latency link , with low power requirements . PlayStation 3 controllers and Wii Remotes also use Bluetooth HID . - From <URL> If you are having problems pairing , try out <URL>
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
You can follow the <URL> . The same way works for iPhone , iPod and iPad . The easiest way is to plug your iDevice , open iTunes , click on your device on the left panel of iTunes then click on the serial number . Your UDID will appear :
I was in this situation once . However I went to the Apple support site , followed what they said , and then filled out the email form . From what I remember they will ask you for what you can make out of the code , and then the serial number of the gift card . This is the link to the email form submission page : <URL> Where it says ' specific request ' select ' my code is scratched or unreadable . ' Proceed to fill in the form as best you can and send it off . I got a response in less that 48 hours , and the answer they gave me allowed me to redeem my card . In answer to your original question , I do n't actually know , but I hope this assistance means you will no longer have a need to refund the card . Hope this helps .
In this case , it was caused by Spotify . It may have something to do with the ads that refresh every 10 seconds , but it started happening immediately after I opened it a minute ago , the 3-month hiatus ended the day I reinstalled it , and it usually happens in about hour-long increments , about how long I usually have Spotify open . I 'm now 100 % sure of this , it directly correlates with when the app is open or closed . It 's strange , though , the window I 'm in does n't appear to lose focus , and this even happens when clicking on something in Spotify , but Spotify is what 's causing it beyond a doubt .
I believe that you 're not asking in the wrong place , you 're really not asking a question . What you define like " The Good Docs " is completely subjective . The guide you linked clearly says : Important : This document is intended for use by security professionals in sensitive environments . Implementing the techniques and settings found in this document impacts system functionality and may not be appropriate for every user or environment . If you 're using this guide , you should be an experienced Mac OS X user , be familiar with the Mac OS X user interface , and have experience using the Terminal application 's command-line interface . You should also be familiar with basic networking concepts . Some instructions in this guide are complex , and use could cause serious effects on the computer and its security . These instructions should only be used by experienced Mac OS X users , and should be followed by thorough testing . So clearly these " good " documents are not that good for everybody . In any case , Spotlight does n't index / System because that could be a security problem on its own ( it would need permissions to do that , a set of permissions that you do n't want to give to a userland daemon running all the time , with access to a UI ) . Why would a regular user want to keep an index of / System remains a mystery to me , it only has things that are for the System and not for the user to find and manipulate . You can , however , use the terminal to touch that if that 's what you want , but no user should ever attempt to land in / System , it can only break so many things ... Where did you get the idea that / System is the most important place to keep an eye on files ? Spotlight is a tool to keep an eye on files ? The place to keep an eye on files is in your very own / Users/YourFolder , because that 's all the access you should have ( to write that is ) . Spotlight is an indexing/searching tool , not a tool to monitor files that may seem suspicious in reserved system places . All in all , if you still want those docs , I 'm sure that most of them will be available in the developer 's area of Apple 's website . ( developer.apple.com ) . You can create a free account and start from there . On the other hand , if you are a " security professional " then you are using the wrong tools for your job . Spotlight is ok as it is , if anything , you might want to restrict it . I 'm sure that if you make spotlight run as root it will eventually index that , but of all the possible ideas that come to my mind , that is probably one of the worst security ideas ever conceived . There 's a reason why root user is disabled by default , there 's a reason for sudo and there 's a reason for normal accounts . Use them wisely , use them in peace .
I 'm not sure that Tivoli gets these finer details absolutley correct . In terms of backing up files and applications these are fine , but when it comes to passwords , attributes and preferences etc , then no , not always . I have just spoken to a pal who uses IBM systems in a Mac and PC magazine publishing environment and prefers his staff on Macs to use Time Machine as the standard back-up to their servers , rather than the PC users who use Tivol as standard .
Take a look at <URL> . I love it . Not only does it remember video location , but also has seamless fast-forward to the next episode of a season .
Typing works for me on Lion . You can substitute for any of the preference panes in the folder . This also switches to the correct pane even if System Preferences is already open .
No . The copy of Lion you get with a new Mac is only available via the recovery partition on the hard drive and this version of the OS is tied to the hardware . <URL> : When you reinstall Lion via Lion Recovery , it seems Apple uses information about your Mac 's hardware to verify that it has a license for Lion . <URL> : Unfortunately , as Macworld points out , this trick does n't apply to OS X Lion itself -- there 's no DVD or thumb drive included with a new Mac , which means the big cat only lives on your new Mac 's recovery partition , which appears to be tied to the hardware itself -- meaning you ca n't install it on your other Macs without ponying up the $ 29.99 from the Mac App Store . Would be nice if you got it for your other Macs for free when you bought a new Mac , but for now it seems like it 'll still cost you another $ 30 to bring all the Macs you own up to the current OS rev.
What you refer to as " iTunes mode " is actually a separate application called iTunes . The only way to get back is to relaunch the iPod app . If you have a multitasking-capable device , you can double tap on the home button and the iPod app will be there as it was the most recently used app .
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
Go to system preferences and navigate to accessibility . Disable " Spring-loading delay . "
EDIT : In this case it sounds like we want to disable auto-lock . This can be done by opening Settings.app , going to General , then scrolling down to " Auto-Lock " . Set this to " Never " . It is possible use the speakers on iPhone to play even when the device is locked . This is possible by : Opening Music.app Select song/album/playlist Lock the device . The music will continue to play . You can also double tap the home button when the device is locked to show play/pause controls for the last-played music . Also , other apps continue to play when the device is locked such as Voice Memos . Note : all audio will shut off when the phone is powered off .
end question
