start question
What are the flight training options for a private pilot 's license in the US ?
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
CFI candidates receive a spin training endorsement with no expiration date . According to <URL> , it should look like this : 46 . Spin training : section 61.183 ( i ) ( 1 ) . I certify that has received the required training of section 61.183 ( i ) . I have determined that is competent in instructional skills for training stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-05 The basis for this is that 61.183 does n't specify a time period in which the endorsement must be received : <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : [ ... ] Accomplish the following for a flight instructor certificate with an airplane or a glider rating : Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that the applicant is competent and possesses instructional proficiency in stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures after providing the applicant with flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider , as appropriate , that is certificated for spins ; and
It 's not just small aircraft in the US - all aircraft with US registration follow the same rules . The FAA <URL> . Basically , there are relatively few limits - you can have N + up to 5 characters , up to 2 of which can be letters ( at the end ) . Here 's what the FAA has to say : U.S. registration numbers may not exceed five characters in addition to the standard U.S. registration prefix letter N . These characters may be : One to five numbers ( N12345 ) One to four numbers followed by one letter ( N1234Z ) One to three numbers followed by two letters ( N123AZ ) To avoid confusion with the numbers one and zero , the letters I and O are not to be used . Other Requirements An N-Number may not begin with zero . You must precede the first zero in an N-Number with any number 1 through 9 . For example , N01Z is not valid . Registration numbers N1 through N99 are strictly reserved for FAA internal use . When an owner registers an aircraft , they can <URL> an N number , provided it 's not already registered .
There are no regulations that prohibit operating an ultralight ( or any other aircraft ) over a national park . We have <URL> and the same general answer would apply to any other national park . For ultralights specifically , the regulations are in <URL> which has only a few very simple restrictions on where ultralights can operate . 103.15 says you <URL> and other restrictions are the obvious ones : do n't fly near airports without ATC approval , do n't enter restricted airspace , and do follow NOTAMs . That means that - as with the Yosemite question above - it comes down to whether the national park in question is a congested area or not . Realistically , most parks where you might want to fly an ultralight probably are n't , so it 's very likely that you can fly over them at any altitude you like : part 91 does n't apply to ultralights , so the minimum altitudes mentioned in the Yosemite question would n't matter . There 's also <URL> to consider , which requests pilots to stay voluntarily above 2000 ' AGL . I do n't know whether it 's meant to include ultralights ( it 's a part 91 AC ) but it does n't really matter because the general guidance is definitely applicable to anything that flies : The intent of the 2,000 feet AGL recommendation is to reduce potential interference with wildlife and complaints of noise disturbances caused by low flying aircraft over noise-sensitive areas As you already mentioned , there might be restrictions on taking off and landing in a park or other public areas ( that 's an issue for <URL> , <URL> and <URL> too ) , but those would be non-FAA regulations .
This depends on what you mean by a " jetpack " . If you mean the classic James Bond-style rocket pack , then according to an FAA spokesman <URL> in the Wall Street Journal they just do n't fly long enough for the FAA to be interested : Once aloft , a jetpack pilot is preoccupied with getting down quickly : A typical pack holds about 10 gallons of fuel , only enough to fly for about half a minute . The Federal Aviation Administration does n't regulate jetpacks . " Thirty seconds is not sufficient to be considered a flight , " says FAA spokesman Les Dorr . He adds that it 's up to the individual to assess the risks . On the other hand if you 're referring to the <URL> , which uses fans instead of rockets , then several sources ( e.g. <URL> ) say that it 's considered an ultralight by the FAA , in which case all the usual ultralight regulations would apply . But I could n't find any direct confirmation of that on Martin 's site .
See Chapter 4 of this IATA document for flight crew management of unruly passengers . <URL> In general , they will weed a lot of the negative behavior out on the ground prior to boarding by looking for signs of agitation or aggressiveness towards other passengers or crew . Should a passenger becom unruly while enroute , the following is generally done . Assess the situation and level threat : what 's happening ? who is doing it ? what are their grievances ? Are the legitimate e.g. . A family member having a medical emergency or trivial e.g. Passenger in 22B is drunk and aggressive ? If there are other than legitimate reasons for the disruption , action in taken using the use-of-force continuum : Physical presence - flight crew will be nearby watching subject . Verbal commands - confront subject . Inform them of both the airline 's and Law Enforcemnt 's zero tolerance policy toward their exhibited behavior . Inform them if they continue with this behavior the aircraft will be landed , they will be placed under arrest by LE on the ground , and that penalties for their actions are severe . Try to calm them down as well , but do NOT serve them alcohol , even if requested . If behavior continues , quietly inform the cockpit crew of the disruption and they will make arrangements to divert to nearby airport and inform local airport police and other LE agencies to be ready on the ground . If passenger has become so unruly that they are posing an immediate threat to other passengers around them , physical force can be used to restrain them by the flight crew . This poses a high risk and should only be done as a last resort to regain control of the cabin . If there is a federal Sky Marshall ( s ) on board they can assist the crew here as well . Restraints such as handcuffs and the waist belts may be used to immobilize subject until LE can take over . Divert will become urgent . Electro Muscular Disruptors - flight crews are now being equipped with and trained on the use of the TASER EMD systems to immobilize unruly passengers in order to restrain them . If subject 's actions pose an immediate threat to life and limb of passengers and threaten the safety of the aircraft and crew ( VERY low probability but it is is a contingency ) , deadly force may be used to neutralize the threat . Near as I know some Capt. / FOs do carry firearms as do Sky Marshals . I 'm not aware of guns being issued to flight attendants .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
The paperwork he was looking at is the dispatch release . This paperwork will have Crew names Fuel information Filed route of flight Alternates as needed Current weather Forecast weather at destination and alternates NOTAMS for departure , destination , alternates , navaids and anything along the route of flight . Deferred MEL items There are also probably a few things I 'm forgetting at the moment . When the captain gets the release the first thing to do is make sure it is for you -- correct crew names and airplane . You 'll check the route of flight and make sure it will work ( weather ) and evaluate the ordered fuel . You 'll review the destination weather , see if an alternate is needed and make sure a suitable one was filed . You 'll also check departure weather and make sure a takeoff alternate is specified if needed . If the paperwork is n't right , you call your dispatcher , otherwise you sign it and take it down to the airplane . The one-page item the captain got may have been a pre-departure clearance . These are generally available via ACARS but can be printed if needed at a terminal . They could also be other information such as ground delay programs or ground stop information that affects the flight .
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
General Each person leaving the country must be authorized to return to the US . ( ie . they are a US citizen or their visa allows them to leave and return to the US . ) Ensure that you have all required paperwork Pilot license Medical Aircraft Registration The aircraft must have a current <URL> . Ensure that the aircraft is properly equipped 12 " Registration Numbers Transponder Before Leaving the US File eAPIS <URL> is required to be filed at least 60 minutes prior to your departure . Other third party services ( ie . <URL> , etc. ) may make this easier if you do it a lot . File an international flight plan May be an instrument or a defence VFR flight plan Before Returning to the US File eAPIS ( see above ) File a flight plan ( see above ) Notify customs and obtain permission at least one hour prior to landing in the US . Record the initials of the customs officer that you spoke to just in case they misplace your notification . Note that if you are coming from locations " south of the US " ( for the specific definition , see <URL> ) , you must stop at the <URL> closest to your point of border crossing to clear customs ( unless you have an overflight permit ) . Upon Arrival in the US You must land at an <URL> . Report immediately to the designated customs location Do not allow anybody or anything to leave/enter the aircraft until the customs official gives your permission The only exception that I know of to this are the South Florida airports where you are expected to take all people and belongings into the customs facility for inspection . Discard any international garbage in the approved manner . Provide required paperwork A <URL> for each arriving family Wait for customs to specifically tell you that you are cleared before you attempt to leave . Notes This is not all-encompassing , please help add to and expand this list so that others may learn from our experience ! A TON of useful information is made available by the FAA in the <URL> .
The AOPA 's <URL> has quite a few resources that I like to review from time to time , including some great videos with commentary on exceptional cases . <URL> <URL> <URL> I do exactly what you are doing , during training and still after , but I 'd like to also say that you should n't narrow yourself to GA crashes , a lot of what happens commercially can be applied to GA , and usually with commercial accidents there is a lot more data and analysis available to work with . In that regard , I like to watch shows on Youtube like <URL> , or on TV like <URL> <URL> on individual crashes where you can search by certain criteria like aircraft type , states , type of flight , or even some specific keywords like " Vacuum Failure " . Just do n't limit yourself to looking at things like " Pilot Error " , pilot error is a broad category of crashes that is usually used to describe the pilot doing something wrong in the air , but a lot of crashes are " pilot error " in that the pilot could have broke the accident chain much earlier in the flight . Read as many as you can , regardless of the cause . For example an accident where the aircraft breaks up in flight may not be attributed to pilot error , but its good to know what lead to the break up and what could have been prevented .
This varies from country to country but here in the US the Federal Aviation Regulations define the minimum safe altitudes : <URL> Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( b ) Over congested areas . Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . ( d ) Helicopters , powered parachutes , and weight-shift-control aircraft . If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface -- ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA ; and ( 2 ) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( c ) of this section . In your case , the sea-planes can fly closer than regulated since it falls under the " Except when necessary for takeoff and landing " clause . These minimums apply in all air spaces however different airspaces surrounding cities ( typically Class B and Class C ) may prevent you from ever getting within 1000ft ( or even a few miles ) of the city due to clearance . For example you ca n't get near a city under a bravo space without ATC clearance and even then you ca n't fly where you want like in other airspaces . but how is that and other private flying entities like news choppers News choppers and the like still must fly by these rules . They often compensate with bigger camera lenses . The somewhat exception to this rule is generally police , fire , and rescue/medical operation choppers/aircraft . This of course is taken on a case by case basis but ATC usually gives them precedent and clears them for whatever they ask within reason . I actually met a guy that was on the council that designed the Philadelphia Bravo Airspace . The airspace is specially designed so that the medical helicopters can take off and fly under the bravo shelf from any hospital in the city . They can do this and still be a safe distance from buildings as well . and ad-banner planes governed ? Banner towing planes , like helicopters must also fly by these rules . Although they are not seen in cities all too often I generally see them at the beach . Although beaches are generally not defined as a congested area and generally the planes are flying over " open water " thus they must be only 500ft from the people on the beach ( depending on how you interpret the law ) .
This varies based on if you are VFR or IFR certified . Basic currency requirements for general aviation flying under part 91 which I presume is the target of this question . The comments to the answer outline the commercial implications , can be found in <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , and -- ( i ) The person acted as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; and ( ii ) The required takeoffs and landings were performed in an aircraft of the same category , class , and type ( if a type rating is required ) , and , if the aircraft to be flown is an airplane with a tailwheel , the takeoffs and landings must have been made to a full stop in an airplane with a tailwheel . ... [ read on for IFR and night currency ] However the FAA actually views using the auto-pilot as manipulating the controls . You can find <URL> . But in short , The FAA considers a pilot 's use and management of the autopilot to be the equivalent of manipulating the controls , just as one manages other flight control systems , such as trim or a yaw dampener . The autopilot system 's sophistication does not affect a pilot 's responsibility to manipulate and manage all control systems , including an autopilot , appropriately . Therefore , a pilot may log PIC flight time as the sole manipulator of the controls for the time in which he or she engages an autopilot . With that in mind you can maintain your currency using only auto-pilot and in theory if your plane and the desired airport was equipped for <URL> ( which , as far as I know , no GA planes are ) you could maintain your currency without physically manipulating the yoke aside from takeoff and climb to autopilot altitude . So no there is no legal obligation to physically touch the controls to maintain currency if your plane is capable of some kind of completely programmable flight ( I do n't think any are currently ) . There is however one notable exception to this regulation . On an IFR checkride you must fly a manual approach , <URL> ... • The applicant must accomplish at least two nonprecision approaches in simulated or actual weather conditions . At least one must be flown without the use of autopilot and without the assistance of radar vectors . The yaw damper and flight director are not considered parts of the autopilot for purposes of this Task . It claims to do everything for you within 50 feet of the ground . This is a bit misleading . First off , most , if not all GA planes lack <URL> so power management is in the hands of the pilot and is fully manual in most cases . Some more modern airplanes like the <URL> which loops prop and throttle controls to one lever minimizing but not eliminating manual control . There are <URL> and function varies heavily : some only have a single axis ( heading hold and adjust capability ) . Some have 2 axes which can hold altitude and headings and some which have the ability to follow GPS courses , fly approaches down to different minimums etc. . It should be noted that some units can be set to create situations that can stall the aircraft or otherwise put it in a dangerous flight scenario , the auto in autopilot does not mean absolute protection or full automation . If so , can it be remotely piloted ? This is actually a completely separate question if you are asking " do I need to physically be inside the aircraft " i.e. " can I maintain currency with a drone if it 's properly equipped " . I do n't think the FAA has fully fledged regulations on this yet . If by remote you mean by use of autopilot , see above .
I ca n't speak for all pilots everywhere , but I 've flown both sticks and yokes from both the right and left seat ( as well as the front and the back seat in tandem aircraft ) and found the adjustment process between switching from right to left hand to be very quick . I found getting used to sight picture differences to be a much bigger challenge and , like many others before me , sideloaded my first few landings ( along with climbing/descending during turns ) until I got the hang of it . Other pilots I 've spoken to about this have expressed the same feelings ; there is a learning curve , but it is by no means insurmountable . At any rate , flying is far more of a mental activity , with masterful physical coordination being surprsingly far down the list of innate qualities a pilot needs . And no , I am not nearly ambidextrous ; in fact , my coordination abilities with my non-dominant hand are hilariously poor , as anyone who 's ever watched my try to toss a tennis ball during a serve can attest .
ICAO Class F airspace is a bit of an odd duck ( and the US FAA is apparently not the only agency that thinks so - from a quick check on <URL> it seems more jurisdictions ignore class F than implement it . They only mention Class F as being in use in Germany and the UK ) . From a functional/regulatory standpoint Class F is a sort of hybrid between " Class E " controlled airspace and " Class G " ( fully ) uncontrolled airspace : Class F airspace is designated as " uncontrolled " , but you can get ATC clearances in Class F airspace just like in controlled airspace . The catch is they 're " advisory only " ( so you do n't have to comply with them , and all the weight is on the pilot 's shoulders ) . Similarly ATC will provide separation services to IFR flights in Class F airspace , but they do so " where possible " , which means they might tell you they ca n't provide that service and you 're on your own with see-and-avoid . The general use case for Class F airspace seems to be allowing IFR flights to operate in " uncontrolled airspace " . As a US pilot ( and thus having no experience with Class F Airspace ) , it sounds like the services provided in Class F airspace are effectively the equivalent of <URL> : Controllers can give you advisories and make suggestions , but all responsibility is ultimately still on the pilot 's shoulders , and you can politely tell the controller to get stuffed if you do n't like their suggestions ( without needing to declare an emergency to vest yourself with that authority ) . In the US we already have the Flight Following system and culture set up for VFR folks ( and generally speaking it 's available nationwide , irrespective of airspace class , as long as the controller can get you on radar and is n't overworked ) . We also have a pretty robust Class E airspace nationwide . Because of this the FAA probably sees no need to designate specific " Class F " regions where IFR flights can get the equivalent of " Flight Following " : If you 're VFR you can usually get flight following if you want it , and if you 're IFR you should have no trouble staying in controlled airspace ( Class A , B , C , D , or E ) for your entire route of flight .
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
You do not need to get another student pilot certificate . The endorsement you need is not for student pilots . 70 . To act as PIC of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating : § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 The answer lies in <URL> . Version F is the latest .
There is a training course on <URL> that all pilots operating VFR flight within 60nmi of Washington DC must take . Since I assume you are flying IFR , you would not be required to take it . From <URL> : All of the following operations are exempt from the training requirement : Pilots operating under instrument flight rules ( IFR ) ; Law enforcement , military , and aeromedical operations ; and A pilot who must deviate to the extent necessary to address an emergency situation .
Absolutely . In fact it 's not a bad idea to do so , if only to get some practice filing flight plans and using the system . In the US VFR flight plans are a search-and-rescue tool : They 're only used if your aircraft is overdue to give the rescue folks information to help plan the search . In your particular case I would file a flight plan that lists your home airport as your departure and destination , with the airport you intend to use for your touch-and-go landings as an intermediate waypoint . If you want to enter information on the nature of the flight ( training , touch-and-gos at XXXX , etc. ) in the remarks field you can do that too . Activate the flight plan when you depart , and close it when you return to your home airport . You can optionally also call Flight Service over the radio when you get to the touch-and-go airport to give them a position report and let them know you 've reached that waypoint ( I would do this on your way out of the area to return home , along with an ETA update if appropriate ) . As an alternative ( or in addition to the VFR flight plan ) you could get <URL> from the ATC facility responsible for your airspace . Be aware that they may drop you and ask you to squawk VFR while you shoot your touch-and-gos since you 'll probably be going off their radar , but you can always request service again when you start your return leg .
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
end question
start question
SR-72 -- is the speed reported in this story wrong ?
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
Solar Impulse has no flaps and a high aspect ratio wing . Therefore , the c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ of the wing should be no higher than 1.8 , most likely 1.6 . While a rigid airfoil can be designed with a higher c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ , it will not have an attractive L/D and a shorter wing would have a c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ below that of the airfoil . Since no fuel is consumed , mass is constant , which makes it very easy to give a lower bound for the minimum speed . <URL> has 269.5 m ² wing area to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² . If we assume standard day conditions at sea level ( density $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m ³ ) , we find vor v $ _ { min } $ : $ $ v _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c _ { l _ { max } } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } = 9.24 \ ; \ small { \ frac { m } { s } } \ ; \ text { or } \ ; 33.27 \ ; \ small { \ frac { km } { h } } $ $ For those of you from metrically challenged cultures : This is 18 knots or 20.67 mph .
Only in aerobatic aircraft is the inverted stall speed identical to the upright stall speed in level flight . Airplanes registered in the Normal and Utility classes have cambered airfoils which have a higher positive maximum lift coefficient . In inverted flight , their stall speed is higher than their upright stall speed . The same goes for gliders and airliners . When I had my last aborted winch launch in a ASK-13 , I involuntarily checked how well the cockpit had been cleaned last time . I had to briefly close my eyes to avoid getting sand and dust into them . I can confirm that it is fully possible to fly a negative maneuver in upright position , albeit only briefly . However , the negative acceleration had as much to do with the rate of rotation and my position ahead of the cg as with negative lift . If I had pushed a lot more , I could had stalled the wing by undershooting the negative lift minimum . But this would had just limited the downward acceleration , and the negative lift would not had been sufficient for inverted flight , because the inverted stall speed in level inverted flight was most likely higher than the speed at the time of the tow line rupture . The negative stall speed is just your flight speed , and the possible negative gs grow with the square of speed . Stall is a matter of angle of attack , not of speed . A negative stall in upright attitude is rather uneventful - the aircraft will be at a high rate of rotation and will just hit the limit of downward acceleration .
When the velocity of the airflow locally exceeds speed of sound above the wing a shock wave forms and the flow detaches beyond this shock wave . <URL> Similarly to stall , the supersonic separation of flow removes the component of lift produced by decrease of pressure on the upper surface of the wing and so the effects are similar . I causes reduction of lift and because centre of pressure is about quarter chord on the upper surface , but midchord on the lower , it causes a significant pitch-down moment , which might be impossible to recover even if the post-stall lift is otherwise sufficient to keep the aircraft flying straight . This effect is often called <URL> . Supersonic planes often have all-moving elevators to have sufficient control authority to compensate for it . A difference from normal stall is that after supersonic flow separation the lift remains proportional to angle of attack and so the aircraft continues to behave more or less normally except for the change in trim . Mach tuck may occur as low as Mach 0.7 depending on aircraft design , because the air moves faster over the wing . It can be delayed by using <URL> , because the shock waves only form when the air velocity component perpendicular to the wing exceeds speed of sound . Supersonic aircraft eventually encounter supersonic flow separation , but the lower surface lift is sufficient to balance the aircraft weight at that speed and altitude and the aircraft can continue flying with the upper surface flow separated . That 's not the case with most subsonic aircraft , which for efficiency reasons tend to cruise at altitudes where they have very small margin to stall . As the stall speed increases with altitude while speed of sound slightly decreases with the lower temperature there , the stall speed will eventually equal critical mach number , which creates the <URL> and absolute ceiling for the aircraft . For most civilian transport aircraft the range between stall speed and critical mach number ( where drag increases and supersonic flow separation would begin ) reduces considerably at cruise altitude , but they usually do n't have enough engine power to reach the actual coffin corner .
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
Briefly , without the CAPS the aircraft could not be certified because it would n't meet the spin recovery requirements of <URL> . You can read a lot of detail in Cirrus 's own <URL> but their design premise is that pilots are bad at recovering from spins , especially close to ground . Cirrus wanted to make a safer aircraft that could recover even if the pilot has no spin training at all , so they implemented two safety features : a " cuffed wing design " from NASA and the CAPS . Normally , the Cirrus would have to comply with 14 CFR 23.221 ( a ) : Normal category airplanes . A single-engine , normal category airplane must be able to recover from a one-turn spin or a three-second spin , whichever takes longer , in not more than one additional turn after initiation of the first control action for recovery , or demonstrate compliance with the optional spin resistant requirements of this section . But , rather than comply directly by demonstrating the spin recovery , Cirrus asked the FAA to certify them based on the wing design and CAPS instead , as the CAPS Guide explains : Given that Cirrus had demonstrated enhanced low speed handling characteristics that will help pilots to avoid inadvertent spin entry and the presence of CAPS , the FAA granted Cirrus an Equivalent Level of Safety ( ELOS ) for the spin recovery requirement of the certification regulations . This ELOS is accepted by all civil aviation authorities that have certified the Cirrus SR20 and SR22 The CAPS also has some other benefits , such as being easy to use for an untrained passenger ( think pilot incapacitation ) . That might be an important " why " reason and selling point from a Marketing perspective but it is n't directly relevant for certification .
Long story short is that both Newton 's third law and the Bernoulli 's effect are two different ways of explaining the same phenomena . Accurate equations have been written to explain both . Newton 's third law , the air being forced down and forcing the airplane up , is actually the effect of lift though not the cause . The cause of lift is the change in pressure . The falsehood that is taught is usually that the two little air particles actually meet up at the same point downstream at the trailing edge of the wing at the same time . This is completely false . In fact , if you were to actually track two air particles , one over the top , and one across the bottom , the one going over the top of the wing will probably arrive much sooner than the one on the bottom ! [ Even though the distance IS longer ] It picks up that much speed . Also they do n't actually really meetup again afterwards at all . The real pivotal relation ( which I learned in my Advanced Aerodynamics class at ERAU using John . D. Anderson 's book <URL> ) is the Kutta-Joukowsky theorem . Taking the time to explain this to a Private Pilot student would probably be a waste of your time and theirs but I will sum it up here anyway to be fair to the question . I will assume incompressible flow because after about Mach .3 < it starts to get more complicated . The Kutta-Joukowsky theorem takes the integral of velocity times the cosine of the incremental angle of the distance along the closed curve . This is a quantity called circulation . The lift equation is then formed as lift equals density ( altitude basically ) times velocity times circulation . So if you really want get in-depth here is an <URL> that explains potential flow theory . What you will find is that the cause of lift is indeed directly related to Bernoulli 's principle in that the change in pressure is what creates the lift . However it has nothing to do with particles meeting up at the trailing edge because they never really do meet up . This does n't discount Newton 's third law either : lift can be explained that way but it is the effect of lift , not the actual cause . And yes , like you mentioned , even a flat-plate for example can create lift when angled right in a wind tunnel .
Tower enroute control is similar to the preferred route in that both are designed to improve the system effeciency . FAA defines the Tower En Route Control ( TEC ) ( in AIM section 4-1-19 ) as : TEC is an ATC program to provide a service to aircraft proceeding to and from metropolitan areas . It links designated Approach Control Areas by a network of identified routes made up of the existing airway structure of the National Airspace System . Preferred routes , on the other hand ( from <URL> ) are defined as : Preferred IFR routes are established between busier airports to increase system efficiency and capacity . They normally extend through one or more ARTCC areas and are designed to achieve balanced traffic flows among high density terminals . This outlines one of the major differences between the two : in TEC route , you never ' talk ' to the ARTCC . As <URL> : TEC flights are intended to be relatively short -- generally two hours or less , and are conducted below 10,000 feet . Throughout the route , communications are managed through tower controllers , and departure and approach controllers at a TRACON facility . You will never talk to ARTCC . Another important thing is that the TEC is essentially equivalent of getting a pop-up IFR clearance , <URL> ( from AIM section 4-1-19 ) : There are no unique requirements upon pilots to use the TEC program . Normal flight plan filing procedures will ensure proper flight plan processing . Pilots should include the acronym " TEC " in the remarks section of the flight plan when requesting tower en route control . The TEC is established only in areas with Radar coverage . US DoT <URL> specifically notes : TEC should be established/expanded only within areas of radar coverage . In areas without radar coverage ... an equivalent level of safety is maintained , TEC may be established and/or expanded . TECs basically are published preferred IFR routes that are entirely in TRACON airspace . As a result , most of the TECs are in the northeast and the west coast ( which can be found <URL> ) , where the airspaces are close enough that one can fly with Radar coverage the whole way .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
Most modern helicopters use two engines for added safety . This reduces the field of competing designs . Also , a good engineer will always leave proven details unchanged and focus on improving flawed designs . So it is hard to prove that a new design from an established helicopter company will truly be a clean-sheet design . The possible new designs from 1976 could be : <URL> : First flight 1974 , introduced 1975 . Note that the AS-355 is a two-turbine variant of the single-turbine AS-350 . <URL> : First flight 1975 , introduced 1979 . It has a single reciprocating engine and was indeed a clean-sheet design by Frank Robinson who started the <URL> in 1973 . He had worked previously at Bell Helicopter and Hughes Helicopters .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
The pilot does n't retract the spoilers until the airplane has slowed down considerably , at the speed it 's traveling at that point the spoilers would be adding no benefits so there 's no point keeping them deployed .
An estimate : An F-18E Rhino can only obtain its maximum speed of Mach 1.8 only at 36,000 ft in ideal air conditions and only in a clean configuration i.e. no external stores . At 36000 ft at STP , Mach 1.8 translates to approximately 550 m/s or 1069 KTAS using the equations : v = M * SQRT ( g * R * T ) Where v is the velocity of the jet in m/s , M is the Mach number , g is the ratio of specific heats , R is the Ideal Gas Const . and T is temperature in Kelvin ( use OAT at -40 C , 233 K ) . Now an F-18E holds 14,400 lbs of fuel internally . The GE F414 engine burns about 36,000 lbs/hr of fuel in full afterburner , so a total fuel burn of 72,000 lb/hr would be typical for this power output . Assuming the Rhino could start at these altitudes and at Mach 1.8 with the tanks topped off , that gives us 14400/72000 = 0.2 hr or 12 minutes of flight time . Ignoring upper level winds this would give us a maximum range of 213.8 NM . This might be enough to put warheads on foreheads , then run like hell back to friendly airspace and a tanker or a carrier but it 's not very good for a long range cruise profile .
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
The maneuver is called a " breakaway maneuver " or simply a " break " , it 's also sometimes colloquially referred to as " peeling off " in the context of aircraft leaving formation . You can see it more clearly in this video : This is a standard maneuver used when <URL> , or as a way to safely exit formation flight ensuring that the departing aircraft is clear of the rest of the formation group . It also has tactical advantages as seen in the photo you posted ( when being tracked by an infra-red/heat-seaking missile , dropping flares and a hard breakaway is one technique used to convince the missile that the flare is actually your engine , by getting your real heat source out of its " line of sight " quickly ) . Aerodynamically the breakaway maneuver is nothing more than a steep turn : Roll the aircraft into the desired bank , setting power and pitch up to maintain your altitude and airspeed in the turn as desired . <URL> , though the bank angle and airframe loading ( G forces ) would need to be maintained within the aircraft 's limitations . The primary difference with fighters and attack aircraft is that the bank angle is dramatically steeper ( in the extreme , a 90-degree " knife-edge " bank ) and the turn much tighter because these aircraft have the excess power ( thrust ) required to sustain flight in that configuration and are sturdy enough to withstand the G loading induced by a " hard pull " in the breakaway maneuver . The abrupt wings-up turn along with the nice roar you get advancing the throttles makes the maneuver an impressive one for airshow crowds to watch .
As jwenting said , it 's unlikely to happen for many reasons , and if it does , the participants are even less likely to admit it since doing so could get them in trouble both professionally , and with a government regulatory agency for endangering safety . I seem to remember the FAA taking action against a pilot who posted photographs of himself flying with either naked or bikini clad women at his side , but I ca n't seem to find a link right now . There is one <URL> which is somewhat famous in the aviation community for describing a general aviation crash which was likely caused by sexual activity . However , the summary is very delicately worded , to say the least : The private pilot and a pilot rated passenger were going to practice simulated instrument flight . Witnesses observed the airplane 's right wing fail in a dive and crash . Examination of the wreckage and bodies revealed that both occupants were partially clothed and the front right seat was in the full aft reclining position . Neither body showed evidence of seatbelts or shoulder harnesses being worn . Examination of the individuals ' clothing revealed no evidence of ripping or distress to the zippers and belts .
First question , yes . For two principle reasons : instrument error and a change in relative wind across the wing . The increase in indicated AS would be small . Second question , not a factor . During the flare , you are close to the ground , and the AOA is mostly controlled by feel , sink rate and all the other things that factor into that complex maneuver . So if the speed were slightly higher , it probably would n't make a difference . But let 's talk practicality . When landing a C172 in a direct crosswind of 20k or so , I would add 5k to my speeds , and if the winds were gusty I would add accordingly ( like 1/2 the gust factor approximately ) . It is better to focus on having a stable approach with good AS and pitch control , than it is to fret over a potential 2k indicated stall speed differential . Besides , in ground effect the numbers change as well .
<URL> , the weight difference between the lowest and highest weights is significant . The operating empty weight ( OEW ) of a 747-400 is 394,100 lb , while the maximum takeoff weight ( MTOW ) is 875,000 lb . This means there is a difference of about 400,000 lb between the lightest and heaviest weights at which a 747 may be taking off , making the MTOW about twice as heavy as the OEW . The rotation speed Vr is the point at which the aircraft can pitch up and develop enough lift to climb . So at MTOW , the 747 must develop about twice as much lift than closer to OEW . Most of this force is lift from the wings . Lift can be calculated with the <URL> : L = 1/2 ρv2sCL L = lift ρ = air density v = airspeed s = wing area CL = lift coefficient The air density will certainly play a role . Higher altitudes and temperatures reduce the amount of lift . But this example pertains to the other variables . An airliner can use flaps and slats to increase the CL and s of its wings . The CL will also depend on the angle of attack α of the wings . An approximate curve for the 747 can be seen <URL> ( it 's for a 747-200 , but it should be close enough ) . When an aircraft rotates , it is changing the AOA , which increases the lift . It is very important when designing an aircraft to make sure it can pitch up enough while on the runway to achieve the pitch angle needed for takeoff . A 747-400 rotates to about <URL> on takeoff . Based on the approximate CL-α diagram , the lift coefficient changes from about 0.3 to 1.25 when α changes from 0 to 10 on rotation . When the aircraft weight is increased , flaps may be increased from <URL> . However , flaps 20 may be standard because <URL> , so lets assume that CL and s will also not change . This leaves the airspeed v as the only parameter left to increase lift . <URL> , figure A-7 shows a distribution of ground speed at liftoff that lies between 140 and 190 kts . These numbers will probably be a little higher than Vr due to the acceleration between Vr and liftoff , and an average headwind . This means that at weights at the lowest end , 130 kts would be a reasonable estimate for Vr . So now lets make up some numbers . Lets take the weights 475,000 lb and 875,000 lb . Assume that the aircraft needs a lift 10 % higher than its weight to take off . This gives us lift values of 522,500 lb and 962,500 lb . Using the lift equation and a low end speed of 130 kts to find the unknown portion . 522500 = 1/2 ρ1302sCL ρsCL = 61.8 Since we are assuming none of those vales will change , we can solve for v at the higher lift value . 962500 = 61.8 / 2v2 v = 176 kts This is not too much lower than the high end liftoff value of 190 kts . So there you have it . Lift must be increased to account for the additional weight , and lift is proportional to the square of the airspeed .
To certify any Commercial Jet Plane worthy of flying , a 2 engine plane must be able fly with just 1 engine running a 3 engine jet like the Lockheed L1011 or DC10 with just 1 a 4 engine jet with just 2 . Although not a requirement , the 747 , A380 could fly on one engine but are not be able to maintain the cruise altitude indefinitely and will eventually become long-range gliders so they must land immediately . The landing approach and procedures vary on how much the plane weighs prior to landing . Would the passengers be notified , asking to take the brace position during landing ? Brace Positions are only assumed on impact emergencies , like crash landings . Losing an engine does n't mean you are going to crash so no brace will be assumed . Would such event have an accident investigation report ? There will be an investigation but if the plane landed safely it wont be filed as an accident . The plane plus the engines passed its FAA , EASA , etc Certification so it may be a number of reasons why the engine malfunctioned , like bad maintenance , faulty parts etc. . This is an extract from wikepedia -- <URL> Shut downs that are not engine failures Most in-flight shutdowns are harmless and likely to go unnoticed by passengers . For example , it may be prudent for the flight crew to shut down an engine and perform a precautionary landing in the event of a low oil pressure or high oil temperature warning in the cockpit . However , passengers may become quite alarmed by other engine events such as a compressor surge -- a malfunction that is typified by loud bangs and even flames from the engine 's inlet and tailpipe . A compressor surge is a disruption of the airflow through a gas turbine engine that can be caused by engine deterioration , a crosswind over the engine 's inlet , ingestion of foreign material , or an internal component failure such as a broken blade . While this situation can be alarming , the condition is momentary and not dangerous . Other events such as a fuel control fault can result in excess fuel in the engine 's combustor . This additional fuel can result in flames extending from the engine 's exhaust pipe . As alarming as this would appear , at no time is the engine itself actually on fire . Also , the failure of certain components in the engine may result in a release of oil into bleed air that can cause an odor or oily mist in the cabin . This is known as a fume event . The dangers of fume events are the subject of debate in both aviation and medicine . Would this report later be available for general public , as are the reports of various significant air disasters ? It depends , as you read above the flight deck crew may shut down an engine because of low oil pressure . Would that have significance of becoming public knowledge ? However as an example , if the problem of an engine failure escalates to the manufacturer then the airline may ground the fleet and that then becomes public knowledge and the reason why because the airliner would give media statements . It all depends on the severity of the problem . Like this one that got reported -- <URL> 20 August 2007 ; B-18616 , 737-800 , 30175/1182 , FF 11 Jul 02 , Okinawa , Japan : Engine # 1 caught fire shortly after docking destroying the aircraft . No fatalities . The cause was the detachment of a slat pylon bolt which fell off and pierced the fuel tank which leaked and ignited . According to the JTSB the washer that should have held the nut in place probably detached during maintenance 6 weeks before the incident . The design of the nut has since been changed to limit the likelihood of detachment .
Well , the SDR dongle paid off - mystery solved . It turns out , the signal was actually at 153.2 MHz , but was somehow breaking through into 110.515 MHz on my handheld scanner . The signal originates from a high power pager transmitter using the FLEX protocol . As this is plain text , I decoded some of it using an excellent open source application called PDW , and have listed it below for reference and general interest ( sensitive information has been redacted ! ) .
end question
start question
Is there a particular reason that EasyJet uses U2 as their code ?
EZY ( EasyJet UK ) code and EZS ( EasyJet Switzerland ) are the ICAO codes , whereas U2 is the code generated by IATA.So the reason why they use the code U2 is because this is the code IATA generated for them when they applied for an IATA code.You can look at the document below that has to be submitted to IATA in order to get the code . <URL> <URL> EasyJet Airline Company Limited ( UK Based ) - ( IATA code : U2 ; ICAO code EZY ; Callsign : Easy ) EasyJet Switzerland SA ( IATA code : DS ; ICAO code : EZS ; Callsign : TOPSWISS ) ICAO codes are used for operational purposes like flight planning , ATC etc whereas IATA codes like U2 are generally used in timetables , reservation systems , departure/arrival information etc. . In other words information that is meant for the general public .
For the <URL> , I found this <URL> below , seems like it 's the opposite of a warning . E ) A SOLAR ECLIPSE WILL TAKE PLACE ON THE 20TH OF MARCH . SPECIAL ROUTES HAVE BEEN DEFINED FOR FLIGHTS PLANNING TO VIEW THE ECLIPSE . THE ROUTES ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS : ( ... ) ANY ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR A SOLAR ECLIPSE PROFILE SHALL BE SENT TO REYKJAVIK OACC SHIFT MANAGER , SEE CONTACT INFO BELOW . SOLAR ECLIPSE FLIGHTS WILL BE GIVEN PRIORITY DURING THE ECLIPSE . OTHER FLIGHTS MAY EXPECT A REROUTE AND OR LEVEL CHANGE FOR SEPARATION PURPOSES . Regarding the temperature drop , from <URL> : Because the patch of the shadow travels faster than the speed of sound , weather systems will only be affected very locally directly under the instantaneous footprint of the eclipse . The main effect is in the " radiant heating " component which goes away suddenly at the moment of eclipse and produces a very fast temperature decrease . If the wind is blowing , your body probably exaggerates , by evaporative cooling , how large the actual temperature swing actually is . Due to the Earth 's geometry , the shadow 's speed differs from location to location , <URL> equates to Mach 2.2 at 50,000 feet for an F-15 to fly along . Even for that F-15 in constant complete darkness , every instance is a new darkness . Some <URL> mention the drop at the surface being 3 ° C ( 5 ° F ) , but it looks like it 's not a thoroughly studied field ( impact of solar eclipses on local weather ) .
Fuel flow is measured by flow transducers in line with the fuel pipes . And they do a very good job at measuring flow , but unfortunately a fuel leak bypasses them . There is no direct measurement of the leak flow anywhere . The pilots of Air Transat 236 had two indications of the fuel leak : Increased fuel flow through the oil/fuel heat exchanger caused a drop in oil temperature and a corresponding increase in oil pressure . Drained fuel on the leaky side caused a fuel imbalance . It would only be possible to positively identify increased flow as a leak if the leak occurs in between two flow transducers , both mounted in the same fuel line . If the leak occurs after a single transducer , the increased flow gives an indication . Otherwise , the leak flow would have to be observed from available volume , minus legitimately used engine flow . There are fuel tank probes distributed in airliner fuel tanks that give an indication of fuel volume per tank . Picture below shows the six fuel probes in the 747 centre tank ( <URL> ) . <URL> The difficulty here is that leak flow must be derived from volume measurement : unit of flow is $ m ^ 3 $ / sec , the derivative of volume . The wing tanks are long and flat and the probes measure vertical distance , with an accuracy that suffices for Qty indication but lacks the precision of the fuel flow meters which directly measure impulse of the mass flowing through them . Plus they measure mass directly , a more useful entity than volume . Volume per mass changes with fuel temperature , tank levels change with aircraft pitch and roll , the level needs to be derived over time : all of this can only give an indication over the course of hours , when a large amount of fuel has leaked out already , and with a degree of uncertainty that would leave room for doubt . You 're right though , in wondering why there seemed to be no automated way for monitoring discrepancies in fuel quantity . @Waked mentions the estimation messages of the B737NG , which would also only seem to occur after much fuel has been lost aready . The A330 now has an ECAM caution message : FUEL FU/FOB DISCREPANCY , put <URL> the Air Transat incident . Lessons learned from this incident would now be incorporated in the fuel management systems and aircrew procedures . The brilliant glide flight of the pilots demonstrates once again why we need pilots in front of the aeroplane .
Currently , there seems to be little official definition , and the term MAV appears is relatively new . The only <URL> on the topic I could find that specifically approached the area defined it as : " small enough to be practical for a single-person transport and use . " ( Galiński and R. Żbikowski , 2007 ) Delft University of Technology section on <URL> provide no clear definition in their documents . I think the definition seems to more subjective to the flying properties to the UAV , which might make the definition more difficult . Since they are not carrying people but sensors , they will be much more varying in weight , especially in with time . One example , the <URL> has a flight time of 25 minutes . This one is a very small but has a respectable flight time . This will not simplify definition . I think the term coined by Galiński and Żbikowski is the most useful in a practical sense . Update : University of Texas <URL> on the DARPA competion says : The definition employed in DARPAs program limits these aircraft to a size less than 15 centimeters ( 6 in . ) in length , width , or height . MAVs must have a weight of 50 grams or less and must be capable of staying aloft for 20 to 60 minutes for a distance of 10 kilometers . The pure source for this this , while not avaliable any longer , I believe I found to be The definition employed in DARPA 's program limits these craft to a size less than 15 cm ( about 6 inches ) in length , width or height . <URL> There are currently no civilian classifications for UAVs from the FAA or EASA , hence the legal problem with these . Most army and air force drones operate under military exceptions if I 'm not mistaken .
In cruise , there are no opposite turns that precede every turn . Human senses and the inner ear are very good at playing tricks , in fact pilots ca n't judge turns if they have no visibility ( e.g. , in clouds ) without using their flight instruments . Judging an aircraft 's bank from a passenger seat is almost impossible at night , in clouds , over sheets of ice , over hazy oceans , etc. . On a commercial flight , the water in a cup remains level in the lateral during <URL> , that 's because the load pulling down on the aircraft will still be pulling down perpendicular to the floor . A shallow roll to the right or left could be just the plane correcting its course in a gust or so .
straight out of the Airplane Flying Handbook , pp 9-4 Operating the engine at idle speed for any prolonged period during the glide may result in excessive engine cooling , spark plug fouling , or carburetor ice . To assist in avoiding these issues , the throttle should be periodically advanced to normal cruise power and sustained for a few seconds . This procedure is common during emergency descents or steep spirals to prevent the engine from cooling off too much . If the engine mixture is excessively rich , spark plug fouling can occur . Fouling can be cleaned off the plugs by running the engine at Cruise power settings with a properly leaned mixture in about 10 or so seconds .
The FAA <URL> defines ' standard rate turn ' as , A turn of three degrees per second . This results in the completion of a full circle in 2 minutes . Every airplane must be able to complete a standard rate turn in order to be certified . The standard rate of turn is used as the main reference for bank angle . GA aircraft are expected to turn at the standard rate of turn during holding , intercepting , tracking , approaches , departures etc. . You 're correct that the airspeed determines the turn rate . As the turn rate is standardized , the bank angle becomes dependent on the air speed . From FAA-H-8083-15A Instrument Flying Handbook , True airspeed determines the angle of bank necessary to maintain a standard-rate turn . A rule of thumb to determine the approximate angle of bank required for a standard-rate turn is to divide your airspeed by 10 and add one-half the result . For example , at 60 knots , approximately 9 ° of bank is required ( 60 ÷ 10 = 6 + 3 = 9 ) ; at 80 knots , approximately 12 ° of bank is needed for a standard-rate turn .
It will be hard to list everything that is said , but I can try to start with some of the basic examples : Pilot is ready to taxi to the Runway P : Tower , N12345 , has information Tango , at South Parking , ready to taxi . T : N12345 , taxi to runway 13 via Alpha , Delta . Pilot is ready to take off P : Tower , N12345 , is ready to go at runway 13 . Request SouthEast Departure T : N12345 , cleared for takeoff , SouthEast Departure approved . Pilot wants to cross another airspace P : Tower , N12345 , is 10 miles to the East , 1,500 , request transition east-to-west T : N12345 , transition approved as requested . Pilot wants to approach an airport to land P : Tower , N12345 , is 10 miles to the South , 1,500 . To Land T : N12345 , make Left-traffic for runway 17 ; report a 2 mile final
... however , I ca n't find a reference to where IATA would publish these codes . You can find it <URL> . Before committing to the purchase of the document , check the free Table of Contents to make sure it has what you want .
" Four hundred " was likely annunciated twice due to a bit of a dip in the terrain that would cause it to pass the 400ft level twice . The " hundred above " call-out is for 100 feet above decision height to let the crew know they will need to make their decision soon to either continue or go around . After that , you hear the " two hundred " and " minimum " call-outs right after one another . The " one hundred " call-out afterwards signifies 100 feet above ground level .
Turning Radius , as found in a planning document : 28.7 m for a Boeing 777-200 34.7 m for a Boeing 777-300 Rotating around one a point a bit off the wing to allow both wheels to roll throughout . Minimum Pavement Width 47.5 m for a Boeing 777-200 56.0 m for a Boeing 777-300 <URL> <URL> <URL> Be aware that this is not exactly ideal - visibility from the flightdeck is not great and you do not want the gear running into the grass or edge lights . An <URL> screwed up in Warsaw not too long ago when trying to pull this stunt . Since this width is not normally provided by the runway ( even Heathrow only has 45m and 50m runway width ) , you will add turning pads at the end unless there are taxiways you can use instead . <URL>
If what you 're asking is to see groundspeed history of a certain type of aircraft , you can choose a type here : <URL> Then follow the links to see its flight track history as shown here : <URL>
I do n't know , but ... If you look at the <URL> you will see there is nowhere for the airline to indicate the code it would like to receive . I imagine many new airlines might indicate a preference in an accompanying letter ( e.g. they would like a code starting with a specific letter ) If you look at the allocated codes you can see that , initially , some attempt was made by IATA to make the two-character codes mnemonic However if JB was already allocated , it is reasonable that the IATA staff would look for an available code starting with either J or B . Since the Blue of JetBlue is more distinguishing than the Jet part of the name , the IATA employee may have started with B and noticed that the following were already <URL> ( note I have not checked dates these codes were allocated but the hypothesis seems plausible to me ) The last two are puzzling but perhaps they changed their names ( perhaps as part of a takeover , merger or split ) . Airline codes do get reused . For example , B5 was used by FlightLine before it went out of business . Then B6 would be the next available code .
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
It 's a Russian internal city or airport identifier . Many small cities do n't have IATA codes , but do have internal Russian codes . This system is called CRT ( Center for schedules and tariffs , ЦРТ , Центр Расписаний и Тарифов ) named after a department in the organization that manages them ( see below ) . Wikipedia article cited below claims it 's also called " Sirena " code ( named after Sirena -- a booking system for airline and railway tickets ) . Here 's a translation of a fragment from <URL> : The internal city and airport coding system in the former USSR is structured analogous to IATA . [ ... ] The airport code in this system consists of 3 letters of the Russian alphabet . As in IATA codes , the 3-letter combination is interpreted as atomic and has no internal structure . As in case with IATA , all 3-letter codes are unique . Like IATA , the codes were assigned to cities such that the code has something in common either with the name of the city or with its IATA code [ ... ] Contrary to IATA , the internal codes were changed after cities were renamed in the 1990s : Saint Petersburg 's internal code was changed from ЛЕД to СПТ , Samara ( formerly Kuibyshev ) -- from КУФ to СМШ , Ekaterinburg ( formerly Sverdlovsk ) -- from СВХ to ЕКБ . Many small cities and airports in the former USSR have an internal code only . In late 1990s foreign ( non-Russian ) cities were assigned internal codes because of the popularity of these destinations ( e. g. Barcelona -- БЦН ) . As of April 2009 , there are about three thousand internal codes that are actively used . It appears that the codes are maintained by the <URL> . The section Coding Directories on their page <URL> says : STC maintains the aggregated database of coding directories for the purpose of universal use of codes in information systems for passenger services reservation and sales , publication of timetables and fares , ticketing , settlement and other commercial issues related to passenger services . STC maintains the codifiers in pursuance of Provision on Assignment , Maintenance and Use of Internal Codes of Carriers , Organizations , Airports , Cities ( points ) and Civil Aviation Agencies ( № ДВ-63 / и dated 12.05.94 ) and Directive " On Coding Directories Approval " ( № ДВ-109 / и date 14.07.94 ) . STC supports the following coding directories : Airlines Airports Cities In Russian , STC is translated as CRT ( ЦРТ ) and I 've heard people refer to the internal codes as " CRT codes " .
<URL> They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations , which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes . Much the like the NATO alphabet rules the names but be easy to understand ( possibly under multiple speaking accents ) and must be non ambiguous . The following rules are also applied Aircraft The first letter indicates the type of aircraft , like Bear for a bomber aircraft , or Fulcrum for a fighter aircraft . F -- fighter aircraft , also later ground attack aircraft : <URL> B -- bomber aircraft : <URL> C -- commercial aircraft and airliners , and cargo aircraft : <URL> H -- helicopters : <URL> M -- Miscellaneous ; trainers , reconnaissance , seaplanes , tankers , AEW etc. : <URL> For fixed-wing aircraft , one syllable names were used for propeller-powered craft ( turboprops included ) , while two-syllable names indicated jet engines .
If a pilot is already speaking to ATC ( or monitoring a frequency ) they should continue to use that frequency for any emergency or abnormal situation . If they are not currently receiving ATC services or on an ATC frequency , attempt to use 121.5 . Many ATC providers and enroute airliners monitor this frequency and can relay or provide assistance . The FAA 's <URL> describes emergency use of 121.5 in the United States : h. Although the frequency in use or other frequencies assigned by ATC are preferable , the following emergency frequencies can be used for distress or urgency communications , if necessary or desirable : 1 . 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz . Both have a range generally limited to line of sight . 121.5 MHz is guarded by direction finding stations and some military and civil aircraft . 243.0 MHz is guarded by military aircraft . Both 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz are guarded by military towers , most civil towers , FSSs , and radar facilities . Normally ARTCC emergency frequency capability does not extend to radar coverage limits . [ emphasis mine ] If an ARTCC does not respond when called on 121.5 MHz or 243.0 MHz , call the nearest tower or FSS .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
Searching the <URL> which also covers some international commercial flights for the key words " hack " , " hacked " do not provide any results related to hacked avionics . Likewise using the keyword " tampered " does not provide any results related to deliberate tampering with avionics ( mostly " tampered " wreckage ) . There is one individual , <URL> , who claims to have hacked into the In-Flight Entertainment System ( IFE ) to cause the aircraft to deviate from its course , however I find it highly suspicious . From a security perspective , I ca n't of any good reason to have the <URL> , however that is n't to say that there is n't some possible connection . The FBI certainly <URL> . So as of today there have not been any aviation accidents that are attributed to hacked or deliberately tampered-with avionics as a cause of said accident . The closest thing I think you will find is pilots loading incorrect flight plans , outdated ( or even pre-dated ) navigation data , and other cases of pilots not correctly using the equipment . I did read your original question and would like to clarify . Conspiracy theories , guesses , and internet speculation are not a replacement for hard evidence . In the case of MH-17 the wreckage was recovered and no evidence has been presented in the favor of hacking , while there is a lot of evidence of the shoot-down . Airliners even at cruising altitude can be shot down by surface to air missiles rather easily . As for MH-370 , until the wreckage is found we may never know ( and even if it is we may never know ) . Black boxes do not have an indefinite life span especially if they are under water . Until then theories of that flight being hacked are just as credible as those saying aliens abducted the entire flight and they are living on Neptune in specially constructed Igloos .
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
end question
start question
Can large aircraft go VFR ?
The FAA treats large airplanes the same as any other airplane when it comes to VFR flight . They are required to maintain the same distance from clouds , only fly with the same minimum visibility , see and avoid other aircraft , etc. . However , since only IFR flights are allowed above FL180 ( without a special exemption ) , and large turbine airplanes are terribly inefficient at low altitudes , so it does n't happen very often . In the US , Part 121 flights have the most restrictions of any of the operating rules , and they have multiple regulations relating to VFR flight , including this one1 : <URL> No person may dispatch or release an aircraft for VFR operation unless the ceiling and visibility en route , as indicated by available weather reports or forecasts , or any combination thereof , are and will remain at or above applicable VFR minimums until the aircraft arrives at the airport or airports specified in the dispatch or flight release . So yes , even if it is operated by a 121 carrier , they are allowed to fly VFR by the regulations . However , they must also comply with their Operations Specifications and Flight Operations Manuals which will have detailed procedures covering the conditions where it is allowed . Outside of 121 there are even fewer restrictions on VFR flight . 1 There is also : § 121.347 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes navigated by pilotage . § 121.349 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes not navigated by pilotage or for operations under IFR or over the top . § 121.649 - Takeoff and landing weather minimums : VFR : Domestic operations . § 121.667 - Flight plan : VFR and IFR : Supplemental operations .
Going around is a process , pulling up is an action . When ATC tells you to go around or you say you are going around it means you are initiating a set of actions to abort an approach . Pulling up is a single action , i.e. increasing the angle of attack in order to climb , and would be part of a go-around procedure . Pull up is a non-standard phrase , in most parts of the world at least , but you might hear it as ' pull up and go around ' in Canada . It also might be used in urgent situations to urge a pilot to act to avoid an obstacle or collision .
Aircraft carriers using <URL> ( the skyramp ) always need to maintain a speed of about 55kmph in order for the Aircrafts on them to take off . This is done to generate enough windspeed on the deck to assist the aircraft to take off . And STOBAR system already hampers the carrying capacity of aircraft , so for takeoff from a STOBAR carrier at rest , a further reduction in Takeoff weight of the aircraft would be required to generate enough lift for the aircraft to take off at such low speeds . This reduction in weight would depend on the Aircraft carrier and the aircraft as such and might create scenarios where this is entirely not possible . For Aircraft Carriers equipped with <URL> , the conventional steam piston drive which is used to catapult the aircraft provides approximately 95 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft to speeds where it can takeoff safely . Hence the arguments stated about the STOBAR carriers can be sequentially applied to this class as well . But recent <URL> provides around 122 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft . Given the extra amount of energy available to accelerate the aircraft at higher speeds , it is quite possible that it is going to be easier for the Aircraft to take off from a static aircraft carrier equipped with electromagnetic catapults when compared to the aircraft carriers equipped with convention steam piston catapults . But the exact details for the feasibility of this idea would be a matter of national interest and might not be available online . Also , one should not ignore the extra amount of stresses that an aircraft would have to face while taking off from a stationary aircraft carrier as it would have to accelerate to a higher speed at the same available length of the runway and hence this might prove determinant to the lifetime of the aircraft . Edit : Under research technologies such as <URL> , if implemented would also assist further in reducing the weight of the aircraft and hence make it easier for the aircraft to take off from carriers at much lower speeds .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
So I 'm assuming mail does not go in civilian aircraft . Like many thing in aviation it depends . For shipping it will depend on where you are shipping to and from , how big the item is and the chose method of shipment . Both <URL> and <URL> ( who are private shipping carriers ) operate large fleets of cargo airplanes . In many cases a shipment may end up on one of their own cargo planes . However their planes , like passenger planes run routes that may be pre-decided . As such passenger airlines sell the leftover cargo space to anyone willing to buy it . <URL> UPS/FedEx may pre-broker a deal to buy a certain amount of cargo space per year from an airline to obtain a better rate or they may buy it on demand as needed . Now Air Mail is a bit different as its <URL> postal service . Technically the USPS no longer offer airmail service as it was once called but does still offer domestic and foreign guaranteed time shipping . All of these items are moved in <URL> or by under contract by FedEx as the USPS no longer operates any aircraft . Am I right , and if so , what 's the reason for that ? It seems it would be extremely more efficient at least for small shipments . Like most things in aviation low cost will always beat out marginal efficiency . If FedEx can ship a package at a significantly reduced rate but in turn it will take an extra day or two to arrive than many customers will see a value add in that . In the same vein it would be very efficient to fly every passenger in a small plane to an airport closer to their final destination and have the plane depart when the passenger needs to , however the cost of that simply would never work out .
Numbering the radios that I can think of offhand in the old 747-100 and -200 aircraft that I used to fly produces : 2 VHF voice communications radios . 2 VHF navigation radio receivers for receiving VOR and LOC signals . The LOC frequencies are paired with UHF frequencies for receiving glideslope signals . 1 ADF ( automatic direction finding ) receiver . 1 HF ( high frequency ) voice communication radio . 2 transponders to send whatever the " squawk " is when interrogated . # 1 was used on odd days of the month , # 2 on even days . There are a number of standard codes , but ATC assigns a 4-digit code to each aircraft during flight under their control . There is never an 8 or a 9 in the code because it 's an octal code . 1 SELCAL ( selective calling ) receiver , which will sound an alert if it receives a signal sent by a ground station . It may not be a separate radio but just a box listening for a tone on one of the voice communication radios . 1 weather radar , and , yes , radar is a radio ( radio detection and ranging ) employing both a transmitter and a receiver . 1 radar altimeter for use in the final stages of the landing approach . Some were " talkers " in that starting around 50 feet , they would announce your altitude in increments of 10 feet . 1 GPWS ( ground proximity warning system ) . I 'm not sure whether it and the radar altimeter shared a box/circuitry/antenaes . 1 GPS receiver , which we got only in the last few months before I retired in 1999 1 ELT ( emergency locator transmitter ) life raft locator beacons . I ca n't remember how many life rafts there were . life raft voice communication on 121.5 and maybe 243.0 . I may not have remembered them all . Modern transport category aircraft would also have SATCOM . Military aircraft would have UHF voice communications and mission appropriate weaponry radios .
Ill answer this for the FAA ( here in the US ) but keep in mind this differs around the globe . The FAA outlines some of their <URL> . They created a special website that has a lot of <URL> if you are interested . There are 2 basic scenarios here in the US , towered and un-towered operations . There can be a noise abatement or related procedure in place in both cases and it is both the pilots and towers ( when applicable ) responsibility for knowing them and abiding by them . Some of them may be set in place by local governments ( if its say a municipal airport ) and you may face local legal action for violating them . At a towered airport that has a noise abatement the tower will generally not vector you to that area or have you use a given runway provide conditions allow . For example when I fly out of KPNE there is an abatement in place , in this case they only list Rwy 15 arrival ( stay above the glide slope ) however there is another abatement in place on the weekends to keep you from flying over the heavily residential areas early in the morning . The tower vectors you appropriately for that one . <URL> ( <URL> ) At un-towered airports there may be a published noise abatement that you are requested to follow . For example I fly out of KDYL which has a noise abatement in place ( to keep you from flying over downtown ) . In this case we can see it noted in the AFD . Although its not fully explained the procedures are for RW 23 turn to 250 as soon as practically possible , for RW05 no turns under 1200 ft. and there are no touch and go 's at any time . <URL> ( <URL> ) In both cases the procedures have a similar outcome to what you have described , keep the airplanes away form the populated areas . The procedures vary heavily per airport and scenario but all generally strive for the same outcome . The <URL> but also provides contact info for directly reporting to the FAA . You can single out a given aircraft by accurately reporting the time of the incident ( and if its visible ) describing the aircraft . Granted it can be difficult at an un-towered field to know who exactly was departing if no one was around to see it or on the radio to hear it . Once reported the local authorities may have the right to fine you for the violation ( if that is the punishment on the books ) . For example in the <URL> . <URL> If a plane violates the Noise Ordinance , how much are they fined ? The initial phases of our violation process are educational : the first time an owner/operator violates , they will receive a complete packet including a copy of our Noise Ordinance , an outline of what the infraction was , a letter from GANC offering assistance with procedures , and a warning letter asking them to contact noise abatement staff . The second violation involves a notification letter of infraction and a request for a written noise abatement program , where we ask the owner/operator to communicate how they plan to operate without violating our ordinance in the future . The third violation is a fine of $ 100 dollars . The fourth and every subsequent fine of 300 dollars . Please note that Military aircraft are exempt from this policy . And it looks like , <URL> , the airport manager issues the fine and the payments go to the airport . This may vary by jurisdiction on how they chose to govern things like this . Over all the answer to your question is , yes airports can fine pilots ( well really owner/operators ) for noise violations . There are also <URL> that deal with engine noise but are generally handled during the certification phase of the air frame . This helps to reduce airport noise overall . As for global regulations the <URL> with the <URL> . ICAO has a set of policies you can <URL> .
Yes , it can be done , but to <URL> is a lot of work . You will also need to use a thinner gauge than 1/32 " to get the weight down . Note that one of the very <URL> was made of 0.2 mm ( 1/128 " ) sheet steel and flew well . However , building it required a corrugated substructure and a welded steel tube frame for strength . Still , it was heavier than necessary so its builder switched to aluminium for later designs . Generally , the tension length of steel ( strength relative to density ) is roughly equal with that of aluminium or titanium ; however , you will need to use high-grade steel to be comparable with aircraft-grade aluminium , so some of the price advantage will be lost . But there is a distinct disadvantage with higher-density materials . While their strength scales linearly with wall thickness , their <URL> scales with the square of their thickness . You will end up with a very delicate structure which will require careful handling to avoid local dimples and a stiff substructure to avoid early failure in compression . Also , introducing loads locally ( say , for a landing gear or an engine mount ) will require local reinforcements which should ideally be multi-layered and taper out in several steps . If you want to scale an existing structure down , make sure you place the stiffeners closer than what a scale construction would require . But I am sure you will prefer to bond the sheet steel to a styrofoam core . Use a higher-density styrofoam with better compression strength and be generous with local reinforcements , and the model should turn out fine .
Pressurization is controlled by two processes : air in and air out . Air is constantly being let out of the cabin through ( at least ) 2 outflow valves , typically located at the aft limit of the pressure vessel . Air is let into the cabin through the air cycle machines ( a.k.a the " packs " ) which are provided with very hot and high pressure air from the compressor stage of the engines and eventually output into the cabin through the air conditioning vents . During normal cruise flight , the mass flow rate of air into the cabin is constant ( because the flow rate through the engine compressor is constant ) , thus pressurization is maintained by actuating the outflow valves . Open them up a little more to raise the cabin altitude , close them up a little more to descend the cabin altitude . Note that while maintaining a constant cabin altitude the outflow vales are partially open -- the incoming air is more than adequate to pressurize the airplane . When a main cabin door or something bigger is opened , the airplane will no longer maintain pressurization and everyone must don oxygen masks to avoid unconsciousness . With a planned cabin dump , masks will be donned before the cabin is evacuated , which will happen before any doors are opened . As noted by others , the pilot oxygen is fed from cylinders of pure oxygen and will last a long time . Passenger emergency oxygen is from chemical oxygen generators and lasts 12-15 minutes . I 'm not sure what type of oxygen masks the HALO jumpers would wear , but presumably they have portable oxygen for the jump not related to the airplane oxygen facilities . When all of the jumpers are away the doors are closed and once again the airplane is capable of pressurization . The outflow valves will be commanded closed and the cabin altitude will start descending . Once the cabin altitude is back down to normal levels , the crew will remove and stow their oxygen masks . There is no need to descend to accomplish this because the air provided by the engines is much higher pressure than even sea level air . Re-pressurization is accomplished by closing up the airplane and letting air accumulate in the cabin , thus raising the pressure . Once the target pressure is realized ( ~ 8000 ft ) , then the outflow valves partially open to stop descending the cabin and to maintain the target pressure .
The " wop wop " , usually known as blade slap , is heard when the tip of the blade passes through the vortex created by the previous one . It can be avoided . The most common flight regime when this happens is a shallow descent but still with quite a lot of power - e.g. fast and shallow . The vortex starts to move down as soon as it leaves the tip of the blade so in level flight , the following blade passes over it . In a shallow descent with high pitch angle , the following blade can literally " slap " into the previous vortex . The vortices of the two blades now interact and can cause local , transient supersonic flow . To avoid it , simply lower the pitch to establish a more positive descent or pull back on the cyclic to increase disc loading and flatten the attitude . The blade tips do not go supersonic . In fact , in nearly all helicopter designs , the rotor rotates within a very narrow range of speeds , typically between 90 % and 110 % of the normal speed . In most flight regimes , the rotor is rotating at 100 % , + / - a few percent , whether you are climbing , descending or cruising . Only during auto-rotation and aggressive manoeuvring does the range vary by 10 % or more . It depends on the type of helicopter but absolute limits would be something like 85 % ( panic time , risk of complete stall ) and 115 % ( smaller panic , risk of damage to the machine , especially in the tail rotor drive shaft ) . In normal operations , and design aims to achieve this , the rotor tips do not go supersonic since when they do , there is a sudden and large decrease in performance with more power required , higher blade loads , vibration and noise . Think about a helicopter flying forwards . The advancing blade at its most perpendicular position experiences a relative airflow which is equal ( ignoring all kinds of minor side effects ) to the forward speed plus the speed of the blade . The retreating blade is experiencing a relative airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the speed of the helicopter . If the blades rotate so fast that the tips are supersonic , then the main lift generating part of the retreating blade , the outer two thirds of the span , would experience such a low airspeed , for some of the span it will even be negative , that the blades will stall causing a catastrophic roll into that side . It is this phenomenon which ultimately limits the rotational speed of the blades and the maximum speed of the helicopter . Let 's look at the R22 as an example . The following figures are approximate . The rotor tip speed is about 670 fps ( feet per second ) . The speed of sound at ground level on a standard day is about 1100 fps . The R22 is flying at close to VNE , let 's say 100kts which is about 170 fps . The tip on the advancing side , at it 's fastest , is therefore flying relative to the airflow at 840 fps and on the retreating side , at it 's slowest , at 500 fps . The blade length is about 11 feet , so the middle portion of the blade on the retreating side is only flying at 190 fps ( half of 670 minus the airspeed ) . When you get to about 4 feet out from the blade root , it 's now only 50 fps and not much further in from that , becomes zero , then negative . Remember that lift is proportional to the square of the speed . You can now see the huge discrepancy between lift on either side as airspeed increases . To answer your question directly , the R22 would need to fly at 530 fps to approach supersonic tip speed which equates to about 330 kts which it ca n't get anywhere near achieving . PS . The R22 POH speaks in Imperial measures . When I get some time , I 'll redo the figures in metric which I , and most of the world , prefer .
The AIM contains the information required to operate under IFR using GPS1 . To summarize the requirements , WAAS ( but not " traditional " GPS ) may be used stand-alone without an alternate means of navigation provided : Installation requirements : The WAAS navigation equipment is approved in accordance with TSOC145 or TSOC146 The installation is done in accordance with AC 20-138 Operational Requirements : The WAAS AFM procedures are followed It is not be used by a commercial operator Preflight Requirements : The GPS database is current The GPS database provider does not have any notices prohibiting the use of any fix or procedure that you are going to use GPS NOTAMs/Aeronautical Information is reviewed prior to each flight A RAIM prediction for the time and route is done that shows no loss of RAIM The flight plan navigation equipment is listed as RNAV Note that commercial operators are required to have redundant systems or ground based backups in order to use it , and while not required for you , it 's a pretty good idea . 1 More specifically , see : <URL> 1-1-18 . Global Positioning System ( GPS ) d. General Requirements e. Use of GPS for IFR Oceanic , Domestic En Route , Terminal Area , and Approach Operations f. General Database Requirements 1-1-19 . Wide Area Augmentation System ( WAAS ) c. General Requirements
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
The short answer is that it 's up to you as PIC to make that determination ; the FAA has no clear definition apart from what a " reasonable and prudent " pilot would do . The FAA issued <URL> on exactly this question in 2009 , here 's the closest thing to a definition that they give ( my emphasis throughout ) : " Known icing conditions " involve instead circumstances where a reasonable pilot would expect a substantial likelihood of ice formation on the aircraft based upon all information available to that pilot . While " known icing conditions " are not defined by regulation , the term has been used in legal proceedings involving violations of FAA safety regulations that relate to in - flight icing . The National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) has held on a number of occasions that known icing conditions exist when a pilot knows or reasonably should know about weather reports in which icing conditions are reported or forecast They go on to say that the PIC is responsible for determining the likelihood of icing conditions : Any assessment of known icing conditions is necessarily fact-specific . Permutations on the type , combination , and strength of meteorological elements that signify or negate the presence of known icing conditions are too numerous to describe exhaustively in this letter . Whether a pilot has operated into known icing conditions contrary to any limitation will depend upon the total information available to the pilot , and his or her proper analysis of that information in evaluating the risk of encountering known icing conditions during a particular operation . The pilot should consider factors such as the route of flight , flight altitude , and time of flight when making such an evaluation Note that even visible moisture and freezing temps are n't automatically considered to be known icing conditions : The FAA does not necessarily consider the mere presence of clouds ( which may only contain ice crystals ) or other forms of visible moisture at temperatures at or below freezing to be conducive to the formation of known ice or to constitute known icing conditions . The specific regulations mentioned in the interpretation are 14 CFR 91.9 ( compliance with the operating manual ) , 91.13 ( no careless or reckless operation ) and 91.103 ( become familiar with all information relevant to the flight ) . Those regulations would be the basis for any hypothetical enforcement action : If the composite information indicates to a reasonable and prudent pilot that he or she will be operating the aircraft under conditions that will cause ice to adhere to the aircraft along the proposed route and altitude of flight , then known icing conditions likely exist . If the pilot operates the aircraft in known icing conditions contrary to the requirements of § 91.9 ( a ) , the FAA may take enforcement action . So the bottom line is : you 're PIC and it 's your decision whether it 's safe to fly or not because there are far too many variables for anyone else to decide . But personally I think it would be difficult for any pilot to say that it was " reasonable and prudent " to fly a non-FIKI aircraft in an area where forecasts , AIRMETs or PIREPS indicated icing .
This has been ( and thus can be ) done and there is some current research on it as well . The <URL> had dropping wing tips that added <URL> . It also effected trim drag , The repositioned wingtips also reduced the area behind the airplane 's center of gravity , which reduced trim drag . The downturned outer panels also provided more vertical surface to improve directional stability at high Mach numbers . You can check out <URL> that interviews some of the people at <URL> including wingtip control systems and other interesting applications in that space . You may find some info in this book on <URL> . This thread ( and you know how accurate the internet is ) <URL>
By motor oil , I assume that you mean automotive motor oil . In that case , it 's a bad idea for a bunch of reasons . First , every airplane POH I 've seen has specified that the oil must qualify to a standard - either MIL-L-6082 or MIL-L-22851 ( though those have been superseded by an SAE standard ) . Modern automotive oil does n't meet that standard , and therefore is effectively forbidden by the POH . More to the point , automotive oil is bad for aviation engines . Aviation and automotive engines work on the same basic principles , but many of the details are different .1 One significant difference is that aviation engines normally burn some oil as they run , while well-performing automobile engines burn little or none . Automotive oil contains a number of additives , such as detergents and wear inhibitors , intended for use where the oil does n't burn off . Some of those additives do not burn completely , but instead stick around in the form of ash , where they can foul the engine and create deposits that lead to pre-ignition . That is why aviation oil is ashless dispersant : it cleans the engine by dispersing combustion byproducts into the oil ( to be removed on the next oil change ) , while being ashless when burned . Lycoming considers it serious enough to put in an all-caps " CAUTION " section in their <URL> document : UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD AUTOMOTIVE OIL BE USED . THE USE OF AUTOMOTIVE LUBRICANTS IN TEXTRON LYCOMING ENGINES IS NOT RECOMMENDED BECAUSE ITS USE COULD CAUSE ENGINE FAILURE . If all of that was n't enough , use of an improper oil may void your engine warranty . In short : do n't use it . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> 1 ) Note that I 'm referring to air-cooled aviation engines that burn 100LL - made by , say , Lycoming or Continental . Rotaxes and new aero-diesels are different , and more like their respective automotive counterparts ; in fact , Thielert engines are actually based on automotive diesels .
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
Large airplanes are <URL> so vapor escaping through the fuel port is not an issue as it is in smaller airplanes . You are correct , however , that the fuel/air mixture existing in the tank will be displaced by the incoming fuel . The wings will have vents installed that will allow the air mixture in the tank to escape ( and fuel in the case of over fuelling or excess expansion of the fuel after it is loaded ) . The fire risk is minimized in three ways I can think of : The airplane is grounded to the fuel truck , minimizing the risk of ignition via sparking . The wing vents have flame arrestors so that if the air mixture leaving the wing did ignite , the flame would not make it into the tank . Atmospheric dispersion -- once the air mixture is out of the tank it will become more dilute with time . In the cases there is more than vapor released , e.g. liquid fuel is expelled , these spills will be absorbed to minimize fire risk . In the ultimate case of fire the fuel truck has fire extinguishers and there is a fire station on the airport that can apply foam and water as needed .
There is no restriction on the number , type of aircraft , or pilots for a " Full 135 Operator . " There are 4 levels of 135 operators : Single-Pilot Operator Single Pilot-in-Command Basic 135 Operator Full 135 Operator * Source : <URL>
Yes and no . Yes it is possible to buy old military aircraft ; they are frequently listed in the pages of aircraft sales periodicals like Controller , Trade-A-Plane , Barnstormers , etc. . Popular piston engine military aircraft include the P-51 Mustang , AT-6 Harvard and T-28 Trojan . East Bloc jets like the L-39 and MiG-15 are also big sellers , due to their affordability to acquire and maintain . A number of historical organizations like the Commemerative Air Force operated old WWII fighters and bombers for display and exhibition . And the unlimited category class at the Reno Air Races is dominated by rebuilt and souped-up WWII fighters like the P-51 and F8F Bearcat . However it is illegal to buy MILITARIZED aircraft , that is those equipped with weapons , either internal or external , military mission systems eg fire control radars , FLIR/Designators , electronic warfare suites , advanced engines or any other type of equipment or system which have national security classifications or ITAR restrictions associated with them . Sales of weapons systems like this requires Congressional approval , though , strangely enough , one could argue these restrictions violate the Second Amendment of the Constitution . The United States has recently clamped down on the sales and imports of military surplus aircraft for this reason . Nevertheless sales of these products are still occurring . I recently saw ads for the sale of Panavia Tornado ADV aircraft which the UK is selling off to the highest bidders . Most likely these birds suffer some sort of demilitarization process . This usually entails mutilating the airframe to cutout wing hardpoints , removal of the radar and cannon and replacement of these items with counterweights - possibly even restrictions on the engines , stripping out datalink busses and classified avionics LRUs , etc. . UPDATE - One notable case of a civilian trying to acquire a military aircraft that gained national attention involved the Pepsi Bottling Company . It centered on the following television advertisement for their Pepsi Points promotional campaign . As it turned out these ' Pepsi Points ' could be traded on the open market at the time ( as opposed to needing the additional trouble of buying Pepsi products for them ) for $ 0.10 / point . An investor named John Leonard spent 700,000 USD to acquire the required 7,000,000 Pepsi Points , then sent them into PepsiCo and demanded a Harrier in return , claiming that PepsiCo had made an offer in the ad . PepsiCo refused and Leonard sued . The judge in <URL> ruled that this did not constitute a legitimate offer as required by contract law and that the ad suggested the Harrier simply to be farcical . Later versions of the ad featured the price of the jet changed to 700,000,000 Pepsi points for added deterrence . Some airframes were destroyed or donated to museums to prevent spare parts from being exported to unfriendly nations ; this was the fate of the poor F-14 . All Tomcats which could not be donated as artifacts or for gate guard/pole duty were chopped up and sold for scrap . The fact that Iran still operates some 70 or so F-14s and concerns about spare parts for the AWG-9 radar sets and AIM-54 missiles ending up there was the primary motivator for this . Hollywood producer Donald Bellesario attempted to acquire a flyable F-14 ; the sale was denied . Still some aircraft make their way through the bureaucratic paperwork and end up in civilian hands . There is at least one F-16A and one F-18A which are in the hands of private owners and the Tornados discussed above will join those ranks shortly .
end question
start question
Is it possible and effective to perform a forward slip in a large commercial jet ?
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
The book The Glass Cage <URL> a fully autopilot-controlled military test flight in 1947 . The plane was a C-54 Skymaster with seven men aboard . According to this source , the pilot aligned the plane on the runway for takeoff , but the takeoff , course control , and landing were performed by autopilot with no human engagement . See also this <URL> from the Chicago Tribune at the time .
The first figure , 1 litre per mile , is very wrong . The second , 39 to start , is most probably the fuel required for a warm up from a cold start . The Abrams tank weighs <URL> tonnes , so you wo n't get 1 mile on a litre . Its fuel consumption is quoted as <URL> , or 1.66 gallons per mile , which is 6.3 litres per mile . Quite a difference . The engine is the Honeywell ( previously Lycoming ) <URL> . It has a two spool gas generator , with a two stage power turbine . It features a heat exchanger through which the HPC exit air flows , to preheat it from the exhaust gas , prior to combustion , to improve engine efficiency . The engine has a <URL> that keeps it running at <URL> so that it can rapidly accelerate from a stationary position if needed to avoid or engage a hostile force . In tactical idle it consumes 30 + gallons per hour , instead of 10 at the non tactical idle setting . It 's <URL> that " in 1990 , Project on Government Oversight in a report criticized the M1 's high costs and low fuel efficiency in comparison with other tanks of similar power and effectiveness such as the Leopard 2 . The report was based on data from U.S. Army sources and the Congressional record . " Some critics say the tank fuel consumption is so poor , that in combat , it has to often wait for the fuel supply logistics to catch up . Other reports <URL> ( See paragraph at the very top of the page ) . The M1 Abrams was <URL> after a competition in June 1973 , between the Chrysler Corporation and the Detroit Diesel Allison Division of the General Motors Corporation to build prototypes of a new tank designated M1 , and later named the Abrams tank . In November 1976 , it was announced Chrysler won the competition . The M1 was faster and more maneuverable than its predecessors in the M60 series , while offering a lower , smaller silhouette . Besides the substantial gains in performance , the Textron Lycoming AGT-1500 turbine engine was far more reliable than the diesel tank engines then in use with the Army . There was still another benefit . The engine change , despite a penalty in fuel consumption , also resulted in much quieter operation , so much so that soldiers encountering the tank in early maneuvers started calling it " Whispering Death " . The Abrams <URL> also states a figure of 6.3 liters per mile , and also states the value of 38 liters to start . As suggested by user3528438 ( thank you ) , the 39 litres ( 10 US gallons ) is quite probably the fuel required to complete a warm up from a cold start . At the tactical idle setting , this would be the fuel consumed in about 15 to 20 minutes .
You can sail a seaplane , but there are a lot of considerations . For starters , it makes a big difference as to whether you 're talking about a seaplane where the hull is in the water or a floatplane . A floatplane sitting up on its pontoons ( floats ) is more up in the wind , but it 's also more susceptible to rough water because of its higher center of gravity . My personal experience with sailing a floatplane was with a J-3 cub with an 85 horse engine on rivers and lakes . If we wanted to back onto the shore , we had to sail it since there was no reverse pitch propeller . For purposes of explanation on how to do it , let 's say that there 's no wind , but we 're on a river with enough current that the movement of the floatplane with the current when the engine is off gives the floatplane a wind relative to the water . Further let 's say the river is flowing from east to west , and we want to back onto a beach on the north shore . We land and stop the engine upstream from the beach . As the floatplane drifts it will weathervane into the wind . Thus , with the controls neutralized , we 'll be facing west and moving downstream in mid-river with the current , but not as fast the current because of the drag of the wind on the aircraft . The rule of thumb is that you point the tail towards the shore you wish to get to . We do that by applying left rudder and right aileron . Thus we have increased the drag on the left wing , which will swing the nose left , and the left rudder will also swing the nose left . Thus the nose is now pointed a few degrees toward the left shore ( south ) , the tail toward the right shore ( north ) . The airplane will then sail to the right shore ( north ) relative to the direction the aircraft nose is pointing because the the aircraft is moving backwards relative to the water . The trick in this instance is vary the control input to arrive at the downstream point you want . For practice , I used to have students sail to alternate sides of the river on Oregon 's Willamette River downstream from the city of Eugene .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
Assuming that the pilots have tried everything possible and the gear just does not like to come down : The general rule is to find a long runway , touch down as slow as possible . Here are sections extracted from Boeing 777 's Flight Crew Training Manual : Dumping fuel If time and conditions permit , reduce weight as much as possible by burning off or jettisoning fuel to attain the slowest possible touchdown speed . Elevator After touchdown lower the nose gently before losing elevator effectiveness . Rudder At touchdown speed , the rudder has sufficient authority to provide directional control in most configurations . Speedbrakes ( ... ) speedbrakes should be extended only when stopping distance is critical . Extending the speedbrakes ( ... ) may compromise controllability of the airplane . Reverse Thrust ( ... ) an engine making ground contact could suffer sufficient damage such that the reverse mechanism may not operate . Selecting reverse thrust ( ... ) may produce an additional asymmetric condition that makes directional control more difficult . Reverse thrust should be used only when stopping distance is critical . Landing technique The technique varies with the combination of failure . If one side of the main gears is missing , land the plane to the side of runway which corresponds to the extended main gear . I.e. if the left gear is down and right gear is up , land on the left side of the runway instead of centerline . Maintain wings level for as long as possible , and be prepared to brake on the left side to maintain directional control . If all the gears decide to hide in the gears bay , land on centerline and use rudder to maintain directional control . Rudder is effective until airspeed drops too low . After landing Evacuate the aircraft as necessary !
There were a lot of other mitigating factors in the Colgan Air 3407 crash . Was that one recoverable ? It depends . It never should have got to the point of a stall in the first place . It was more preventable than recoverable . But in answer to your question , again , it depends . Every aircraft in the air can stall and be recovered , if responded to properly . But the plane may very well bend and break if the stall develops too far . Then it may not be recoverable . And most large airliners ( or aircraft bigger than a few thousand pounds with multiple engines ) are n't designed for the stresses of spins , so they never teach to a full stall . In those types of aircraft a full stall is much more dangerous , and they can be much more difficult to recover from , especially if you break something . Besides , in aircraft like that , you should receive plenty of direct warning long before you reach the point of a stall . When I was teaching , stalls and spins were one of my favorite subjects for early pilots . Especially in light trainers like the Cessna 150/152s . Those aircraft were always incredibly good at stalls/spins and incredibly forgiving . You can put a Cessna into a hands-off full stall if you trim it right , and it will stop rotating in a spin if you simply let go of it ( and have enough altitude ) . I always taught my students spin recovery from a full spin , even at the Private Pilot level . And usually shortly after teaching them full stalls . I would stall it , make it rotate at least 3 or 4 times , and have them recover the spin . Then have them do it themselves . I never had to worry about my students not knowing how to recover from an unintentional stall/spin . By the time my students were learning to fly multis , I was teaching them more stall recognition and avoidance than recovery . Recovery is essentially the same in all aircraft . You just have to be sure to not reach that point . There 's only one thing you really need with any aircraft in a stall/spin , and that 's altitude . Unfortunately , takeoffs and landings are the most likely places for you to get behind the aircraft and let it unintentionally stall/spin . That 's why you learn how to recognize them very early in your pilot training . You ca n't spin without a stall first , and just about any airplane will give you fair warning before you stall it . The trick is recognizing the situation before it becomes serious .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
If you know what you 're looking ( sniffing ) for , yes . Avgas 100LL smells like gasoline ( a little different than what you pump into your car , but similar ) . Jet-A smells like kerosene ( not quite " like diesel " , but definitely not like gasoline ) . If you are familiar with how both smell you can tell them apart by odor , and a significant contamination of Avgas with Jet-A could be detected by smell . ( Other tests , like an evaporation test , are more reliable for lower levels of contamination however ) .
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
It depends what you mean by " glider " . If you mean any craft that trades height for horizontal movement while flying without engines then yes . See the space shuttle . If you mean a craft designed to fly without engine power while losing as little height as possible and exploiting thermals then no . The problem is as you lose height you gain speed and when there is no significant atmosphere you have no good way of getting rid of that speed . So you inevitably hit the atmosphere extremely fast . The difficult part of coming back from space is losing speed to atmospheric drag without your craft burning up or ripping itself apart in the process . To reenter in one peice requires thick heat shields to avoid burning up and a compact shape and robust construction to avoid breaking up . To fly for a long time without engine power while losing as little height as possible requires a lightweight construction with long slender wings . These requirements are mutually exclusive . I did some quick searches to put this in perspective . Afaict a modern glider has a glide ratio of about 50 , a 747 has a glide ratio of about 15 , concorde has a glide ratio of about 9 and the space shuttle has a glide ratio of about 1 .
Here is what a lot of people experiences about simulator : they sit on a chair in front of a desk at home , run some PC flight simulator game with a yoke , and they can do pretty much anything - in the simulator . Many of these simulators are very real , especially with quality addons . Since they fly very good in the simulator , they should be good pilots too - after all , you just read the readings on the instruments then react to them ! How hard can that be , huh ? It turns out , we are biologically wired to orient ourselves with our ears . It is the result of evolution , with us staying on the ground for the past million years or so . When we fly , the body sends " wrong " signals to the brain . These signals are interpreted as " instincts " , and since we have trusted our body 's sensation ever since we 're born , they are very hard to fight against . Many new pilots faced trouble reacting to instrument readings , because their biological body is telling them the opposite of what the instrument is indicating , creating doubt . Full-motion simulators solves this problem . The movement of the simulator itself is , obviously , restricted . However , it is designed with ear-balance in mind . For example , the simulator will slowly right itself to upright over time , but the rate of rotation is just under the detection threshold of the ear-balance mechanism . Therefore , the occupants will not feel the simulator platform resetting itself . This allows pilots to practice with the sensation associated with attitude changes , in a controlled environment , with a much lower risk ( and much lower cost ) than flying in a real airplane .
From the Boeing 737 emergency procedures : After all attempts fail to free the stabilizer ... Anticipate higher than normal elevator forces during approach and landing . The thrust reduction at flare will cause a nose down pitch . Note : Elevator control is sufficient to safely land the airplane regardless of stabilizer position .
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
Flameout basically means that the flame in the combustion chamber has been extinguished . A jet engine compresses air , then adds fuel and ignites it . So , it needs three things to function correctly - fuel , air ( oxygen ) , and the heat to make them burn . <URL> . It can happen for a number of reasons : fuel starvation - <URL> suffered flameout ( due to wrong amount of fuel being put ) and had to be landed like a glider . Compressor stall ( or surge ) - The disruption of airflow due to compressor stall can cause an engine flameout . Ingestion of foreign objects - <URL> suffered flameouts in all four engines due to ingestion of volcanic ash Firing of armament - Early in its service A-10 Warthog suffered flameouts due to the engines ingesting the gassed generated while firing the GAU-8 Avenger . Early jet engines ( like the Jumo 004B ) had <URL> ; however , modern jet engine flame outs are very rare , at the rate of about one every 100,000 non military flights . In most cases of flameout , the <URL> for resumption of flight . <URL> mentions a case where flameout happened because a F-100 ingested fuel ( during aerial refueling ) ; however , such occurrences are quite rare .
end question
start question
What is the relation between pressure and airflow speed above an airfoil ?
Both pressure and velocity are related : The total energy of an air molecule outside of the boundary layer is constant and the sum of its pressure and its velocity component . Mathematically , the energy per unit of volume is $ $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 + p = const $ $ which is actually the simplest form of <URL> which neglects changes in altitude and temperature . In the end , it 's not this causes that , but both components fluctuate in sync and combine to a constant total . Nomenclature : $ \ rho \ :\ : $ density $ v \ :\ : $ speed $ p \ :\ : $ pressure
The speed indicator in the cockpit shows indicated airspeed . Indicated airspeed is usually different than GPS speed , due to wind and aerodynamic effects . GPS speed is your speed with respect to the ground . If you are standing on terra firma it reads 0 . If it reads 100 knots you will be 100NM away from where you are now in one hour , so long as you keep flying in a straight line . Airspeed is the speed of the aircraft relative to the surrounding air . So if you are standing on terra firma with 20 knots wind blowing in your face , your airspeed will be 20 knots . If you travel at 100 knots airspeed against a 20 knots headwind wind , your ground speed is 80 knots . If you do 100 knots airspeed with 20 knots tailwind , your GPS speed reads 120 knots . But even in calm wind conditions the airspeed indicator will read differently than the GPS speed . This has to do with the way airspeed is measured . Airspeed is measured with a pitot tube . A pitot tube has two pressure measurement ports . One that measures the total pressure $ P_t $ . This port is facing the incoming airflow . The other measures the static pressure $ P$ and is placed perpendicular to the airflow . The difference between the two pressures is called impact pressure ( pressure rise do to the airflow impacting the pitot tube ) and is denoted $ q_c $ . The impact pressure is related to the speed of the airflow the pitot tube is exposed to . If the flow is considered incompressible ( which is an acceptable approximation for speeds up to 200 knots ) the impact pressure can be derived from Bernouilli 's equation . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 $ $ q_c $ is the impact pressure in Pa $ \ rho $ is the density in kg/m3 $ V$ is the true airspeed in m/s The airspeed indicator is calibrated for standard sea level conditions , where $ \ rho $ is 1.225 kg/m3 . In reality the aircraft will fly at altitude and therefor the actual density of the air is lower . Therefor the indicated airspeed will be lower as well . For example if an aircraft flies 75 m/s ( about 146 knots ) at 6000 ft the density will be 1.02393 kg/m3 . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } 1.02393 \ cdot 75 ^ 2 = 2879.8 \ textrm { Pa } $ The equivalent airspeed at sea level for the same $ q_c $ is : $ V _ { EAS } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 q_c } { \ rho_0 } } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot 2879.8 } { 1.225 } } = 68.6 \ textrm { m/s } $ Your airspeed indicator will read only 68.6 m/s ( 133 knots ) despite the fact that you are moving with 75 m/s ( 146 knots ) with respect to the air . Conversion of true airspeed to the equivalent airspeed can be done directly by : $ V _ { EAS } = V \ cdot \ sqrt { \ frac { \ rho } { \ rho_0 } } $ $ V _ { EAS } $ equivalent airspeed ( m/s ) $ V$ true airspeed ( m/s ) $ \ rho $ actual air density ( kg/m3 ) . $ \ rho_0 $ density at standard sea level conditions ( 1.225 kg/m3 ) The effects of the lower density on your aispeed indicator become more pronounced the higher you go . Once you go faster than about 100 m/s true airspeed the effects of compressibility can no longer be ignored and the above no longer applies . Airspeed indicators are corrected for effects of compressibility and therefore do n't use the equivalent airspeed but instead use calibrated airspeed for calibration . $ V _ { CAS } = a _ { 0 } \ sqrt { 5 \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { P _ { 0 } } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { 2 } { 7 } -1 \ right ] } $ $ V _ { CAS } $ is calibrated airspeed $ a _ { 0 } $ is the speed of sound under standard sea level conditions ( 340.3 m/s ) $ P_0 $ is the static air pressure under standard sea level conditions ( 101325 Pa ) $ { q_c } $ is the impact pressure The impact pressure is also a bit more complex for compressible flow : $ \ ; q_c = P \ left [ \ left ( 1 +0.2 M ^ 2 \ right ) ^ \ tfrac { 7 } { 2 } -1 \ right ] $ $ P$ the static pressure $ M$ the Mach number Effectively , the higher and faster you get , the greater the difference between the indicated airspeed and the true airspeed . For example , Mach 0.8 at 40000 ft in no wind will result in a GPS speed of 489 knots , but a calibrated airspeed of only 242 knots , which is less than half . Therefore at high altitudes and speeds , the indicated airspeed will be lower than the ground speed / GPS speed , unless you have extreme headwind .
For references , I 've used <URL> ; <URL> ; <URL> ; &amp; the <URL> . The wiki is a general side-stick discussion listing ( some ) aircraft that have side-stick fly-by-wire ( FBW ) technology , but does not go into active vs. passive . Generally speaking , if you have used a joystick on your PC to fly Microsoft 's Flight Simulator , such as <URL> , you 've used an active side-stick . According to the Patent Application cited above , the patent is for an Active Side-Stick technology described as " pilot flight control stick haptic feedback mechanism provides variable force feedback to the pilot flight control stick . " One of the ' issues ' with the current passive side-stick technology ( approved for use ) used on aircraft such as Airbus ' A380 is that there is no tactile feedback when using the side-sticks , such as a pilot would feel using an old-style column or yoke . In a Cessna 172 , for instance , when you pull/push/turn the yoke , there is actual tactile feel , if you pull back strongly in-flight , you 'll ' feel ' the forces exerted against the airflow . Passive side-sticks have none of this ' feel ' . Active SS technology attempts to replicate the forces on the joystick . Active SS technology is currently used on most miltary aircraft using side-sticks , but does not appear to have yet made its way into civilian airliners . ( If I 've gotten stuff wrong , I 'll remove/fix this answer , as I am not an airline pilot and have never had the opportunity to fly military hardware . )
The short answer is that the privileges are what the rating confers , and there are ways to get those privileges other than having the rating . A commercial pilot licensee in most jurisdictions that follow ICAO certification guidelines may fly small planes for hire , doing service as a courier , air taxi , crop duster , etc. . These do not necessarily require flying in IMC or in Class A airspace , and so a CPL holder must also have a separate " instrument rating certification " in order to fly IFR . ATPL licensees fly in Class A as a matter of course , and that also often requires ascending and descending through the cloud ceiling which is IMC by definition . Therefore , the requirements for an ATPL in ICAO-compliant jurisdictions inherently include those required for the " instrument rating " applied separately to lower certification levels ( private/commercial ) , and the resulting license for an airline pilot confers the same " instrument privileges " that the rating would . Thus the difference in terminology ; an ATPL holder in another country has " instrument privileges " as a consequence of his basic license and so does not need a specific " instrument rating " . The same is not true for CPLs and so the law specifically requires the instrument rating as a prereq for a foreign CPL seeking an FAA ATPL .
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
The 777-31H is a standard Boeing 777-300 manufactured for Emirates ( customer code 1H ) . The 777-31H ( ER ) is a Boeing 777-300ER ( Extended Range ) again for Emirates . Compared to the standard 777-300 , the 777-300ER has : A longer range due to the extra fuel it can carry ( 145538 kg compared to 135880 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Operating Empty Weight ( 167829 kg compared to 159570 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Maximum Take-Off Weight ( 351535 kg compared to 299370 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher maximum structural payload weight ( 69853 kg compared to 64960 kg for the -300 baseline ) A wider wingspan ( 64.80 compared to 60.93 m ) A different engine delivering more thrust The Boeing 777-300ER is always equipped with General Electric GE90-115BL1 engines , while the baseline -300 can be ordered with four different engine models from General Electric , Pratt &amp; Whitney or Rolls Royce . The Emirates Boeing 777-300 aircraft have the Rolls Royce RR Trent 892 engines installed . They deliver 415 kN of thrust , almost 100 kN less than the GE90-115BL1 engines .
Here 's an engine with old combustor cans : <URL> Here 's a single annular combustor : <URL> And in cross section : <URL> And now here 's a dual annular combustor ( DAC ) ( <URL> ) in cross section : <URL> See how it 's like one ring ( or donut ) inside another ring . <URL> " like an annular combustor , the DAC is a continuous ring without separate combustion zones around the radius . The difference is that the combustor has two combustion zones around the ring ; a pilot zone and a main zone . The pilot zone acts like that of a single annular combustor , and is the only zone operating at low power levels . At high power levels , the main zone is used as well , increasing air and mass flow through the combustor . "
I think you are trying to ask What is the difference between a propeller and a turbo propeller ? A traditional propeller plane is powered by an <URL> engine . These can be in the form of radial , flat , or V style engines with a few other configurations used here and there . On the other hand a turbo prop is a propeller plane that is powered by a <URL> . In this instance the shaft of the turbine is used to drive a propellor . One could think of this as putting a propellor on the front of a jet engine .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
Manufacturers typically plan their aircraft production well into the future , which includes having a buyer lined up for each aircraft , so they will know their position in the production line and have an anticipated date for delivery . An order means that the buyer has agreed to purchase a certain aircraft in the production line , at a certain price . The buyer may cancel , but there will probably be a substantial penalty for doing so . An <URL> <URL> that the manufacturer has reserved a certain aircraft in the production line for the buyer , usually at a certain price . However , the buyer will make the decision on whether to convert this to an " order " at a later date . There is less commitment than with an " order " . A <URL> is even less of a commitment than an " option . " This just means that the buyer has agreed to purchase aircraft at a certain price , but it 's not tied to a specific aircraft at that time . It is becoming more common for buyers to mix these three types of orders , which allows them to have a balance of locking in an aircraft and price with orders , and less risk and commitment with options and purchase options . These can all be canceled , though of course there will be more penalties for breaking a more firm commitment . Buyers may also <URL> , either for their own or the manufacturer 's business reasons . The detailed finances of how much is actually paid for aircraft , and how much it costs to make or break any of these contracts , is generally not disclosed . Negotiations can be very specific to each order . For a rough estimate , <URL> considers that for 6 aircraft worth 45 million per unit , options would be worth 2.3 million each to the airline , or about 5 % . <URL> estimates the down payment on a firm order at 10 to 15 percent , but notes that at least in the case of business and commuter aircraft , depending on market conditions , this may not always be required .
Speed of a plane is actually measured in a number of different ways , and relative to different things . Here is a summary of the different types : Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) . This is the number shown on the instrument that measures airspeed , and is n't really relative to anything . Rectified Airspeed ( RAS ) or Calibrated Air Speed ( CAS ) This is IAS corrected for known errors in the instrument and the measurement system . True Air Speed This is the speed relative to the air around the aircraft ; usually found by correcting the RAS for pressure and some other errors . Ground Speed This is the speed relative to the ground , or a fixed point on the earth ( ' imaginary grid ) . Its the vector addition of the True Airspeed ( and direction ) plus the wind speed ( and direction ) . In olden days this was estimated from the Airspeed and the wind velocity , or through dead reckoning navigation , but now it is trivially found from GPS or other navigation aids . Planes use different ones of these for different purposes . Measurements relative to the fixed stars are not generally useful until you are in the realm of space travel .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
Short answer : D'Alembert 's paradox always holds as <URL> : For incompressible and inviscid potential flow , the drag force is zero on a body moving with constant velocity relative to the fluid . Longer answer : Pressure drag is a viscous phenomenon . <URL> section 3.18 has an extended discussion of experimental results stating that the real flow over a circular cylinder is dominated by friction effects , namely , the separation of the flow over the rearward face of the cylinder . In turn , a finite pressure drag is created on the cylinder , and d’Alembert 's paradox is resolved . Anderson 3.15 and any number of online resources convincingly and rigorously prove that inviscid flow around a cylinder preserves d’Alembert 's paradox ( even when the cylinder is spinning and producing lift ) because there will always be cancellation of aerodynamic forces due to the symmetry of the flow field across the line concurrent with the lift vector . The easiest way to convince yourself that this is also true for airfoils is the conformal mapping technique explained in <URL> .
I think you are missing some physics knowledge , so let 's start from here : If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound <URL> is a compression wave that travels through air . Given a certain air temperature , the sound will travel at <URL> through the air . If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound means that the compression waves it is generating will remain behind the aircraft : image from <URL> will he be able to overtake his own sound and hear itself ? As you can see on the right picture , if the aircraft is travelling faster that the speed of sound , the compression waves it generated in the past will remain behind . If it would stop/slow down , the waves would then catch up with the plane and a person on board would be theoretically capable of hearing them .
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
An amended clearance usually indicates something has been added to it , but the original content remains the same . Revised usually means the clearance has had modifications to the original content , including possible additions and deletions .
end question
start question
Does NASA use T-38 's to train all members of a flight crew as pilots ?
Non-pilot astronauts are not required to become pilots . They fly in the backseat of T-38 's partially for transportation purposes , and partially for flight regime training . They are called " mission specialists " and since their job does not require piloting skills , there is no reason to train them as such . <URL> says " The T38 is used for flight readiness training to help the astronauts become adjusted to the flight environment , including the g-forces experienced on launch " and that non-pilots fly at least four hours per month in a T-38 . Pilot astronauts fly at least 15 hours per month to maintain proficiency . You can look up whether someone has a US Pilot 's license using the FAA 's <URL> . A quick search turns up several astronauts who have never been licensed . For example , the mission specialists on the final shuttle mission , <URL> and <URL> , are not pilots . That being said , I would n't be surprised if most , if not all , of the non-pilot astronauts got some stick time in a T-38 since it is a trainer with dual controls . Obviously the pilot and I 'm guessing the commander would be airforce pilots In the NASA vocabulary , commander is equivalent to what you would think of as pilot or captain , whereas pilot is equivalent to what you would think of as co-pilot . In the Apollo program , the commander landed the lunar module on the moon , not the " Lunar Module Pilot , " and in the shuttle program , the commander landed the shuttle , not the pilot . So , you are correct that both the commander and pilot must be pilots , and some of them did come from the Air Force , although US Navy was more common , and a few came from the Marine Corps . Almost all of them were test pilots . A few astronauts joined NASA with the qualifications to be pilot-astronauts , but only flew as mission specialists ( for example , <URL> and <URL> ) . I am honestly not sure whether or not NASA allowed them to fly the T-38 's ; however , the only photo evidence I can find shows them in the rear seat , which leads me to believe they were not allowed to fly solo . I have no idea if NASA still uses T-38 's NASA does still use T-38 's because NASA still sees a need for pilot astronauts in the future , and the pilots need a way to maintain flying proficiency . In the <URL> , four out of the eight were test pilots of some sort , although it 's unclear how many will be considered pilot-astronauts . There is <URL> that the number of T-38 's which NASA operates does appear to be shrinking , which is likely a reflection of a reduced astronaut corps size , budget constraints , and the fact that the aircraft fleet is about 50 years old . According to unconfirmed sources ( <URL> ) , the number of NASA T-38 's is expected to be reduced from 32 to 16 by 2015 . Other Space Shuttle-specific aircraft have been retired entirely , such as the Gulfstream II <URL> and the <URL> ( the latter was n't flown by astronauts ) .
Mostly you would n't need to ask . Most commercial flights use the airline 's standard call sign and the flight number printed on your ticket . Sometimes the call sign can be confusing - British Airways use ' Speedbird ' ; PAN AM used to use ' Clipper ' . There 's a list of common callsigns on <URL> The flight number should be enough - just listening for calls referring to ' two-two-zero ' will almost certainly identify United 220 . Code-sharing flights , however , will generally use the flight number of the operating airline . Your ticket might say ' United 220 ' , but if the flight is operated by , say , American Airlines so the call sign might be ' American 406 ' . All that said , if you 're using your phone when you have been explicitly asked to turn it off the airline is within its rights to confiscate your phone or remove you from the flight .
Proficiency in English is something very much required in aviation . One other major accident I remember is the <URL> , which resulted in 349 fatalities , and one of the major reasons was believed to be the poor English of Kazakh Airlines crew . Keeping such importance of English in mind , and the need to standardize English testing and training , the <URL> has issued <URL> Training Candidates are trained for Aviation English in a very similar way to it would be for any other purpose , other than ensuring the following points : Use of operationally relevant , work-related language . Exposure to an aviation environment . Practical training activities such as Listening practice in ATC lab . Testing The Test of English For Aviation is a test Developed by <URL> in accordance with ICAO 's ratings . Here is how the candidates are tested in TEA : TEA candidates can score from Level 1 to Level 6 but most candidates score Level 3 , 4 or 5 . Candidates are awarded a mark from 1 to 6 for each of the 6 skills : pronunciation , structure , vocabulary , fluency , interactions , comprehension . <URL>
There are many reasons an airline may fly to a given destination and the economics of air travel are complex to say the least . I would like to fist address your question could n't the people living around Bologna take a train to Milan to get to Dubai Sure they could but airlines do n't only service locations because of the people that live there they may service them for the very people that do n't . I fly both commercially and as a GA pilot to explore new places . I generally fly out of the Philadelphia area which is one of the busiest in the US . From there I head to plenty of tiny airstrips all over the place , none of these airstrips are in towns that are as economically prosperous or busy as Philadelphia but they see my travel because I wish to explore the area . The same goes for foreign airports , simply because a country is less economically prosperous or " busy " than another does not mean it has less to offer culturally and in fact may be a hot bed for tourism . I have personally been to both Prague and Bologna and they are great cities both with large tourist markets . I can see it being very economical to fly a wide body airliner there full of tourists and maybe only a few locals . While layovers may attract the lower budget fliers there are plenty of people who prefer a direct flight for both the convenience and time savings . You may be able to find more <URL> .
The chines help when the nacelle is very close to the wing . When the engine of Boeing 's 737 was changed from the slim JT-8D to the higher bypass ratio CFM-56 on the 737-300 and later , the chines were essential to avoid large flow separation . Generally , aircraft with higher landing gear can afford to have more space between nacelle and wing and do not need fixes like chines . But when a new engine has been fitted to an existing design , chances are that some vortex generators are needed to fix the new flow conditions . For the nitpickers : The 737-100 and 200 had underslung nacelles which left no space between wing and nacelle , but that is aerodynamically similar to a nacelle at a larger distance , because no narrow flow paths are created which produce steep pressure gradients . Only a closely mounted , but still separate nacelle will have these flow conditions which need to be remedied by energizing the boundary layer .
The flying boom method uses a rigid boom which is " flown " by an operator in coordination with the pilot in order to make a connection with a receptacle on the second aircraft . The boom is retracted when not in use . Though <URL> if it comes in contact with an aircraft , <URL> . The probe and drogue method uses a trailing hose with a basket on the end . Pilots will guide a probe on their aircraft into the basket to connect with the hose . The hoses are retracted when not in use . Though the crew has less control of the drogue , which <URL> , there is less danger to the aircraft than from a boom , and it could allow the aircraft to stay further away from the tanker . The boom method was developed early on in the Cold War , when <URL> . They needed a method that would transfer fuel as fast as possible in order to reduce the time it took to transfer the large amounts of fuel needed . Because the boom is rigid , it is capable of a higher transfer rate . The importance of bombers meant that SAC got their way , and the KC-135 fleet was equipped with booms . Today , almost all US Air Force planes capable of aerial refueling use the boom system . The US Navy on the other hand , along with most aircraft in other countries , uses the drogue system . Though this method is not capable of the high transfer rates of a boom , it is much more flexible . A refueling aircraft may only be fitted with one boom , and this requires extra design work and integration with the fuselage . The drogue system , on the other hand , is more simple , and does not need a dedicated operator . This means that it can be more easily fitted to the refueling aircraft , even <URL> , and larger aircraft can have multiple drogues . Another point is that smaller aircraft such as fighters are not capable of receiving fuel at the full rate the boom provides , so they have less benefit from the system . Although a boom can have a <URL> , this still commits the tanker to one aircraft at a time and one type of system per flight . Also , aircraft such as helicopters <URL> . When the Air Force was looking at a replacement for its tanker fleet in the early 2000s , a <URL> to determine what standard the new tanker should support . The report suggests some options for the best combination of methods . In the end , the Air Force selected the <URL> for the contract , which will include both the boom and the drogue options for refueling . This will provide better support to aircraft from other branches or countries , while maintaining support of the existing aircraft that use a boom .
There is hardly anything that ca n't be found with the help of a few friends and the Library of Congress . <URL> Pp.52-57 . Plant No. 1 ( Kuibyshev ) : Non-flyable [ what the heck is that ?? ] MiG-15 : 2 in 1949 , 4 in 1950 . 10 knock-down UTI MiG-15 kits were produced in 1951 . Plant No. 153 - Novosibirsk Plant No. 381 ( Leningrad ) : 1949 - 75 MiG-15 Plant No. 21 ( Gor ' ky ) : Plant No. 31 - Tbilisi Plant No. 126 - Komsomo ' ls ' k-NA-Amure Plant No. 292 - Saratov Plant No. 135 - Kharkiv Plant No. 99 ( Ulan-Ude ) Totals for the USSR ( may contain errors , have n't double-checked ) :
What does svc tar/ssr u/s mean ? Terminal area surveillance radar and secondary surveillance radar ( raw radar return and the secondary return from your transponder ) is unserviceable . If you were VFR you could practice the approaches without ATC radar vectoring , or ATC could give you a non-radar routing via an airway , then transition route , then the instrument approach procedure . In other words , the area for the time being ( NOTAM period ) has no radar . Non-radar procedures would be utilized . If the local ATC area was normally a radar environment and the radar equipment was taken down for preventive maintenance ( for example ) , providing separation for practice approaches may be more than they are willing to do . In the US ATC system , controllers are initially trained , tested , and qualified using a non-radar environment at the FAA Academy . Non-radar approach control is infrequently necessary in actual operation ( unless it is in an area where radar coverage is not available full time , which is becoming rare in the US ) . Call the local ATC Approach Control in the area you are referring to and see what services they can provide .
The Mode S address is not used for identification of aircraft in the higher levels of the ATC system such as the Flight Data Processing System . Mostly the assigned 12 bit code ( also known as Mode A code or squawk code ) is used to correlate a radar track to a flight plan . The major exception is that in Europe , when the Mode A code is set to 1000 ( octal notation ) , the Mode-S downlinked Aircraft Identity ( ACID ) is used for flight plan correlation . This is to free up Mode A codes . Usually planned flights are assigned discrete Mode A codes but using ACID / Flight ID correlation , multiple aircraft on a flight plan in the same area can use Mode A code 1000 . The downlinked ACID must be equal to the Flight ID used to file the flight plan . The Mode S 24 bit address is only used in low level systems ; in the Mode S radar , in multilateration systems , in ADS-B receivers and to some extend in tracking systems .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
It 's a little complex , but here is a shot . Take a look at the following graph : <URL> What you can see is multiple airspeeds . For a plane , the rate of cruise is maximised around Airspeed B is reached - this is when the difference between power available and power required is the greatest and therefore the most excess energy is available for climb . The slope here indicates how much power is necessary for that airspeed - the steeper the curve , the worse it is . The value is really high for airspeeds all the way to left . If you were to deploy the flaps , you would sort-of shift the power required curve to left - adding drag , reducing the difference between the power available and power required , reducing the maximum rate and in the process increasing the power necessary . <URL> In the equation above , you want to increase lift . Yes , you can do this with flaps - it would increase CL . As you yourself state , it takes a lot of drag to use flaps and slats . Another option is to increase velocity . This is more efficient and uses less energy . The reason we need is flaps is since as the velocity drops for landing , we need to increase the CL to maintain sufficient lift for landing . Airspeed for B for landing though is much too fast , so you want to slow down to the left side of the graph . See <URL> on a little more detail on this relationship . As for flap limitations , they appear to be 20,000 ft for the Boeing 737 - Mostly because boeing found them unnecessary to use at higher altitude .
First of all it depends on what type of " employee " and if the jumpseat is in the cockpit or the cabin . According to the answers to <URL> there are no regulations on who may sit in a cabin jumpseat as long as it meets the specifications set out in FAR § 121.211 for proper airline seats . So the airline is free to set policy for cabin jumpseats . As for jumpseats on the flight deck the restrictions are quite stringent . If the employee is a pilot FAR § 121.547 ( c ) ( 3 ) allows off-duty pilots to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck , so there would be no need to make them an active crew member . FAR § 121.547 ( a ) ( 1 ) allows an on-duty flight attendant to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck . The person would have to be a certified flight attendant , so you could n't just make any employee a crew member . Remember also that flight attendants have hours of service restrictions , so any time they are considered on-duty has to comply with the h.o.s. regulations . Certain other types of employees are allowed to fly in the flight deck , but they have to be performing a specific function on the flight that requires their presence in th cockpit . For example , a mechanic could fly in the cockpit if he 's there to monitor something on the aircraft . A flight dispatcher could be on the flight deck if they are observing flight operations as a part of training . Even some persons who may be given access to the cockpit for operational need , like air marshals or training personnel , still must have a seat available in the cabin . So they ca n't put someone in the cockpit just to transport them from place to place and they could n't just plop a salesman or a ticket agent there and say they are a " crew member . " There are regulations stipulating the minimum number of flight attendants on a flight but not a maximum number . So , technically they could make a flight attendant part of the crew , but if that person was just listed as a crew member and was n't actually performing any duties , the FAA would certainly interpret that as a violation .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
In the US , pilots of one carrier may end up flying another carrier to position themselves . This is not the preferred routing of pilots for economic reasons , but it happens . In that case there may be crew on board wearing a different carrier 's uniform . I know of no regulation prohibiting this practice .
In general , the pilot could be a captain , major , or lt col , the copilot probably a 1lt or captain , and the navs any of the above . For a select crew handpicked for a " fate of the world " mission , you might put 2 instructor pilots together along with two senior navs , so all 4 as lt cols would n't be impossible . On the other hand , if the crew is essentially detailed off to be " secret squirrels " for a while , it probably would n't be stacked quite that high , so maybe a mix of majors &amp; captains . That happens because it quickly becomes disruptive to take senior guys ( tactics officers , instructors , the ops officer or commander , etc ) away from their regular squadron jobs for a prolonged period . The more important the mission , the more that disruption is accepted .
<URL> : McCall 's plane is a demilitarized Douglas A-26 Invader , a type used in WWII . Since the film was made in 1960 , I imagine there were plenty of them around . ( The A-26 was known a the B-26 from 1948 to 1965 , <URL> . The B-25 is easily distinguished because it has the twin tail . )
Commercial pilots ( in the United States ) are usually not allowed to drink while on duty regardless of their flight status because , among other things , it would be frightening to any prospective passengers who might see them drinking . For example , American Airlines strictly forbids consuming alcohol or any intoxicant publicly while in uniform . Here is the exact text of their company policy : Rule 25 Unauthorized possession or using any intoxicants on Company premises at any time , or drinking intoxicants in public while wearing a uniform with Company emblem or insignia is prohibited . Note that this does not disallow drinking as long as it is ( 1 ) not on company premises , and ( 2 ) is in private . Obviously , if the person is a US crewmember then they must adhere to FAA rules in addition to company rules ( see <URL> for details on those rules ) .
Flight inspections are flights performed to measure the performance of the communication , navigation and surveillance ( CNS ) infrastructure of air traffic control . Flight tests are required to examine the signals-in-space as received at the aircraft after being influenced by external factors such as site conditions , ground conductivity , terrain irregularities , metallic structures , propagation effects , etc. . source : ICAO DOC8071 In this case the inspection flight seemed to be performed to inspect the performance of the Instrument Landing System at <URL> . The aircraft did numerous approaches on runway 25 and flew across the localizer twice at approximately 11 km ( 6NM ) from the runway threshold . This is a normal procedure for ILS testing . <URL> For those interested in the details of the ILS testing procedure seen on FR24 , it is described in section 4-10 of ICAO Document 8071 , Manual on Testing of Radio Navigation Aids , Volume I ( Testing of ground-based navigation systems ) .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
end question
start question
Which UK airport uses different approaches for noise reduction ?
Apparently it 's called Runway Alteration . The only hits I got were referring to <URL> , so my guess is this is the only airport that uses this procedure . Actually , the alternation is in two ways : per part of the day , and per week . During week 1 , from 06:00 to 15:00 runway 27L is used , and from 15:00 until last departure 27R is used . The week after this , the things are reversed : From 06:00 to 15:00 runway 27R is used , and from 15:00 until last departure 27L is used . So the people living under the approach of 27L will have noise in the first part of the day in week 1 , and during the second part of the day in week 2 . See the full programme <URL> . It is influenced by the six factors below ( taken from the same source ) : Daytime patterns of runway alternation are different to night-time patterns : at night there are only a handful of landings and very few take-offs . Aircraft land and take off into the wind , so the <URL> has a big effect on flight patterns . Government policy currently favours aircraft taking off towards the west . Even when the wind blows from the east , aircraft could still fly in from east and take off towards the west . This is because we have a <URL> . A historical restriction means that aircraft can not take off towards the east from the northern runway . This is because of the <URL> . The hour between 06:00 and 07:00 is the busiest time of the day for arrivals so we are able to use both runways for landings . Occasionally we have to suspend runway alternation for airfield maintenance , in response to bad weather or when air-traffic control want to avoid a build-up of arriving aircraft . Actually , alternation also occurs for night flights , but then in 4 one-week periods .
Yes , there is <URL> on this : [ ... ] under the express language of the regulation , aircraft operating in the airspace underlying Class B airspace - irrespective of whether the underlying airspace is controlled or uncontrolled - may not exceed the 200-knot speed limitation So it is indeed any and all airspace underlying class B. And note the exception to the rule : We note § 91.117 ( d ) does provide that , if the minimum safe airspeed for any particular operation is greater than the maximum speed prescribed in § 91.117 , then an aircraft may be operated at that minimum speed .
The Airman Certification Standards ( ACS ) is basically an ' enhanced ' version of the Practical Test Standards ( PTS ) . According to <URL> , It ( ACS ) adds task-specific knowledge and risk management elements to each PTS Area of Operation and Task . In general , while the PTS concentrates on what the applicant must ' do ' , the ACS specifies what he/she must ' know ' and ' consider ' ( in addition to the ' do ' part ) to qualify for a given airman certificate or rating . The differences ( in draft ) are shown in this slide . <URL> Image from Update on the ACS by FAA According to the FAA briefing , • The " skills " section of the ACS covers the flight proficiency performance metrics in today 's PTS . • For each PTS Area of Operation/Task , the ACS lists the elements of aeronautical knowledge that support that skill . • In addition , for each PTS Area of Operation/Task , the ACS lists the risk management elements or behaviors associated with it . The ACS is still under development , but FAA is targeting a June 2016 implementation ( for airplane ) depending on results of prototype ( there is one running at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University ) and some other factors .
You will want to use red light . Why ? See <URL> for a good explanation of the biology and physiology involved , and how it relates to perceptual ability . As stated in <URL> ( by <URL> ) to that question : If one is exposed to red light ( above ~ 650 nm ) , it would activate the L-type cones mainly ( possibly some M-type activation ) , but no rod activation . Rods are the low light receptor cells in our eyes , and as such , are very sensitive to the photon density , or brightness , entering the eye . This is just my speculation , but I think it 's plausible that if you were in a completely dark environment with just a red light , filtering out the higher frequencies , night vision could be spared in the sense that we do n't activate the rod cells .
Falstro 's referring to the european en-route IFR rating , not the UK IMC rating . The UK IMC rating ( I have one ) is a national rating which allows departures , approaches and flight in instrument meteorological conditions , albeit with higher minimums . It can only be used within the UK , not including the channel islands , which means once you leave UK airspace you are no longer allowed to use it . Training for it is a similar curriculum as any other instrument rating : NDB and VOR tracking Partial panel Unusual attitude recovery ILS , VOR , NDB , and Surveillance Radar approaches The reason for the UK rating is to give private pilots an attainable instrument rating option as the EASA one is aimed at commercial pilots and has a huge amount of unnecessary material and training requirements . This is supposedly being worked on but given it 's the EU I 'm not holding my breath .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
Chicago O'Hare International Airport ( ORD ) today has 8 runways , which is more than any other current airport has . In 2015 14L/32R was closed and 10R/28L was opened , and further <URL> are foreseen . <URL> Beijing Daxing International Airport will be Bejing 's third airport ( planned to open in September 2019 ) . According to <URL> it will have 9 runways . One runway will be reserved for military use . The ninth runway is not visible on public maps and illustrations at this moment . <URL> Denver International Airport ( DEN ) currently has 6 , but the long term master plan foresees 10 runways in total by 2030 , and 12 beyond 2030 . <URL> . ( Fun fact : there are a plenty of <URL> ) Additional runways are not necessarily used to increase ( commercial ) traffic . Runways maybe reserved for different wind directions , to separate different type of planes ( military , general aviation ) , or for noise abatement . This was already discussed better in the other question that you mention . <URL> As an example for the noise abatement , this picture ( from <URL> ) shows a snapshot of active runways at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol . There are 6 runways , of which usually only 2 or 3 are used . The most distant runway ( here in green ) is almost always in use , causing very long taxi times in favour of reducing the noise exposure of nearby residential areas .
Annex 15 of ICAO Chicago convention describes the required information for safe conduct of flights , and which aeronautical information is to be provided by ICAO members . Each country needs to provide an aeronautical information service ( AIS ) in a standardized form , comprising static and dynamic data . Static : Aeronautical information publication ( AIP ) , AIP amendments and charts . AIP is generally updated each 28 days . Dynamic : Notam , AIP supplements . Explanatory information does n't fit well in the previous categories , and is grouped in aeronautical information circulars ( AIC ) . Details AIP : Authoritative information issued by an ICAO member containing long lasting aeronautical information essential to air navigation . <URL> . AIP amendment : Permanent change to AIP . AIP supplement : Temporary change to AIP . Notam ( and Snowtam ) : Notice distributed by a telecommunication system , concerning the establishment , condition or change in any aeronautical facility , service , procedure or hazard , the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel concerned with flight operations . Also associated with Notam : pre-flight information bulletin ( PIB ) , a presentation of current Notam information of operational significance , prepared prior to flight . <URL> . AIC : Information that does n't qualify for inclusion in AIP or Notams but which relates to flight safety , air navigation , technical , administrative or legislative matters . This could include mid-term prevision for changes in the regulatory or technical frameworks , results of safety investigations , scientific discovery related to how weather impacts aviation ... <URL> . Full aeronautical information contains : AIP , including amendments Supplements to the AIP Notams AIC Checklists and lists of valid Notams . Source for the above definitions : <URL> . Regarding The Air Navigation Order ( ANO ) , specific to UK " On 7 December 1944 , the majority of the world 's nations became signatories to the " Chicago Convention " , the aim of which was to assure the safe , orderly and economic development of air transport . ICAO sets out , in the terms of the convention , the rules , regulations and requirements to which each signatory must adhere . The Civil Aviation Act 1982 is the UK 's means of discharging its ICAO responsibilities . This legislation required the creation of the CAA . The Air Navigation Order ( ANO ) is the law that empowers us to carry out our duties . " <URL> . ANO is the legal framework valid for UK , to empower aeronautical agencies and their publications , in accordance with Annex 15 .
Has boeing changed their alarm systems post that incident ? The story of <URL> is complicated . It is not clear that a misidentified alarm was the cause of the crash . Update : If you are talking about the cabin altitude warning horn , that was allegedly misidentified as a take-off configuration , then nothing has been changed , at least up to May 2015 ( see : <URL> , bottom of the page 50 ) . " As the aircraft climbed , the pressure inside the cabin gradually decreased . As it passed through an altitude of 12,040 feet ( 3,670 m ) , the cabin altitude warning horn sounded . The warning should have prompted the crew to stop climbing , but it was misidentified by the crew as a take-off configuration warning , which signals that the aircraft is not ready for take-off , and can only sound on the ground . In the next few minutes , several warning lights on the overhead panel in the cockpit illuminated . One or both of the equipment cooling warning lights came on to indicate low airflow through the cooling fans ( a result of the decreased air density ) , accompanied by the master caution light . The passenger oxygen light illuminated when , at an altitude of approximately 18,000 feet ( 5,500 m ) , the oxygen masks in the passenger cabin automatically deployed . " m , Source : <URL> .
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
There is actually quite a lot of difference between ARINC-429 and MIL-STD-1553 . They are different because they were developed by two different groups with different needs . Both started in the 1970 's . Before then there was almost no digital data of any kind on a an aircraft . It was almost all analog or discrete . The biggest issue was noise and interference of the signals . The introduction of microprocessors in the early 70 's opened up the option for reasonably priced digital bus technology . The MIL-STD-1553 bus was a major component of the F-16 . Like most military programs , this was a push for maximum performance . ARINC-429 came out of the Boeing 757/767 development effort . Civilian aircraft certification does n't like a lot of risk and the simpler bus architecture made it easier to design , analyze , and certify . Since then there have been a number of new buses introduced into aviation . Some have lasted longer than others . B777 introduced ARINC-629 and Fibrechannel . B787 uses ARINC 664 for the main buses with a large mix of ARINC-429 and ARINC-825 ( CAN bus ) as well . There are a number of data concentrators/converters on the aircraft to get data where it needs to go . The primary reason for moving away from ARINC-429 is that it is a single transmitter/multiple receiver architecture . This results in a large amount of physical wire . That adds weight and requires maintenance . A bus such as ARINC-664 , which is based on Ethernet , can significantly reduce wire . The down side is that it costs a lot more and is n't very efficient when all you need is a small , low rate connection to an odd corner of the aircraft . So you end up with a mix of buses . And B787 opted for fiber optic cable for the ARINC-664 network to reduce interference from high-intensity radio frequency ( HIRF ) and lightning . MIL-STD-1553 is a powerful bus , but it 's not as good a fit as many of the newer buses available in the commercial market . The military keeps using it because they have a huge installed base of equipment , it 's flexible enough to support their newer functional needs , and commonality reduces their logistics costs . ARINC-429 sticks around because it 's cheap and it has its own large installed base as well .
To start you off there 's these two : <URL> - Certification of Airports and <URL> - Notice of Construction , Alteration , Activation and Deactivation of Airports . Part 139.311 covers all the lighting related requirements . Part 157 is there just so you can inform the FAA about the changes you 're going to make in the airport . for specifics about LED lights , I would suggest looking for Advisory Circulars with LED lighting for airports in particular .
This list comes from a database query against an ARINC 424 navigation database . The data is <URL> as a raw , computer-readable data file , but it is not human readable , and querying it requires special software not accessible to the typical interested party . I have done the query for you and pasted the results . Note the database does n't distinguish between " NDB RWY XX " and " NDB OR GPS RWY XX " so the titles here may not precisely match what you see on the plate . Time permitting I 'll see if I can update the list ( and note any changes ) using the most up-to-date navigation database . This list is based on an expired ( by 2 months or so ) database . These approaches are dropping like flies .
I can only speak for the Boeing B787 , but the 787 Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) indicates that there are slight differences between different engine options . Three examples : autostart modes ( different failures can be automatically detected and corrected for during engine autostart ) , warm-up times before take-off and cool-down times after landing , take-off thrust setting ( " GE engines : Advance the thrust levers to approximately 40 % N1 " vs " RR engines : Advance the thrust levers to approximately 20 TPR " - this also indicates that the primary engine indications are slightly different : N1 and EGT vs. TPR , N1 and EGT ) . I do n't know though how much these slight differences translate to different procedures , as I am not a pilot .
The latest revision of the MMEL for the A320 family was approved a month ago by EASA . The <URL> only contains a PDF document with the <URL> for Airbus aircraft . For some manufacturers ( e.g. Cessna ) the full MMEL is included on the EASA website . The <URL> on MMELs says : Each MMEL document is the property of the ( S ) TC holder , and only made available here in full if requested by the ( S ) TC holder . If a full copy is not available here then please contact the ( S ) TC Holder to get a copy of the document in question . So you have to contact Airbus in this case .
Yes , the details are in <URL> : 7 . Usage of Suitable RNAV Systems . Subject to the operating requirements in this AC , operators may use a suitable RNAV system in the following ways . ( 1 ) Determine aircraft position relative to or distance from a VOR ( see first note in subparagraph 7b ) , TACAN , NDB , compass locator ( see second note in subparagraph 7b ) , DME fix ; or a named fix defined by a VOR radial , TACAN course , NDB bearing , or compass locator bearing intersecting a VOR or Localizer ( LOC ) course And all fixes , procedures etc. must be loaded from the GPS database , you ca n't enter any fixes yourself based on lat/long or whatever ( section 9 ( c ) ( 1 ) ) .
For the landing is quite easy . Airliners usually approach an airport descending along $ 3 ^ \ circ $ slopes . This means that they will be 300m AGL approximately 5.7 km before the runway threshold , and they will be at 550m AGL about 10.5 km before the same point . For the take-off the situation is a bit more complicated , as each aircraft will have a different performance . Taking a value of about 1000ft/min for the vertical velocity and 200Kts for the forward velocity ( in aviation we use the imperial system , for a bit of background see <URL> ) we get similar distances to the above ( it is a $ 2.8 ^ \ circ $ slope ) Note that these paths are more or less a straight continuation of the runway , particularly on the landing side ( less so on the take off side ) . Each airport has approach and departure procedures , you could try to have a look at those . They are usually published by Jeppesen .
Hawaiian Airlines <URL> started acquiring airplanes ( <URL> ) that are capable of that range . According to Wikipedia , London and Paris routes were discussed . On November 27 , 2007 , Hawaiian Airlines signed a MOU ( Memorandum of Understanding ) with Airbus for 24 long-range jets priced at $ 4.4 billion . The order included six Airbus A330-200s with a further six purchase rights and six Airbus A350-800s with a further six purchase rights - plans to fly to Paris and London were discussed . -- <URL> My speculation is that buying a <URL> for London or Paris at the moment is too expensive for them . Busy airports in Europe do n't have enough slots for everyone . Airlines end up trading those slots . Allocated landing slots may have a commercial value and can be traded between airlines . Continental Airlines paid $ 209 million for four pairs of landing slots from GB Airways at London Heathrow Airport , \ $ 52.3 million each . -- <URL> <URL> 6,300 NM ( 7,200 mi ) distance.—gcmap.com
Critical speed or Mach number is the speed at which the speed of sound is locally reached somewhere along the flow around an airfoil . A supercritical airfoil can tolerate operating speeds slightly above the critical speed ( hence the name ) , which means that a pocket of supersonic flow will show up , most likely on the upper surface . What qualifies an airfoil as supercritical is that the recompression does not need a <URL> , but can be done shock-free for a small lift coefficient range by clever shaping . See <URL> for more . Calculation of a supercritical airfoil is best done with a computer program which models the flow conditions around Mach 1 faithfully . Once such program would be <URL> . The picture below shows one result for the BACJ airfoil at Mach 0.8 , and you can see that the speed on the upper surface reaches Mach 1.3 .
You have a few questions here . ... downwind pattern and I hear something like this : " 123X , tower , you are # 2 for runway 3 , following a Cessna on final . " In this case what you will do is continue your down wind leg while scanning for the Cessna traffic , some towers may ask you to " report traffic in sight " in which case you will say " traffic in sight " when you can see the Cessna . If he is on a long final you can begin turning your base ( assuming you are in a similar small plane of a similar speed ) when he is on your beam ( right off your wing tip ) . This should provide adequate spacing for you to come in properly . Keep in mind that the tower may also instruct you to do things to keep separation like " 123X Extend your down wind 1 mile " etc. . ... instructed to make " left pattern for runway 3 , " am I supposed to wait for the base leg turn until tower clears me for landing ? This depends on where you are coming in from . I have flown into towered airports on the runway heading and simply come into the pattern on final and was cleared to land about a mile from the runway . Other wise I typically report my midfield downwind to the tower " Piper 12345 Reporting Left Midfield Downwind for RW24 " then the tower will respond with my landing clearance or instructions to extend . While it is the towers responsibility to clear you for landing and what not , controllers are not perfect , you can continue on towards the runway in your pattern but if you have not been cleared you should go-around or ask for clearance . The other situation I have been in is a case where the controller deliberately does not clear you but has you come into the pattern and approach . This occurred while they were waiting for an IRF plan to come through for one of the regional jets waiting for departure . Since they did not know when it would come in I was instructed to continue my pattern and would be cleared on final if they did not need to get the jet out . However I was explicitly told I would be cleared on final so I knew what to listen for .
end question
start question
What process do I follow to land a civilian aircraft on a military base ?
Landing at a US military base is n't all that hard ( I 've landed at Ft. Drum before ) , you just have to get prior permission ( PPR ) ( submitted at least 30 days in advance and confirmed within 24 hours according to 32 CFR 855.8 ) , and need to have a " good reason " ( as determined by them ) . <URL> ( which is quite long ) includes the purposes that are normally allowed . You will be required to submit the following forms to the base commander ( See the A/FD ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> contains the regulations pertaining to US Air Force airfields ( and the rules are similar for each branch ) . 855.1 - Policy includes : ( 1 ) Normally , landing permits will be issued only for civil aircraft operating in support of official Government business . Other types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances . Access will be granted on an equitable basis . ... ( 3 ) Any aircraft operator with an inflight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization . An inflight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight hazardous . 855.5 - Responsibilities and authorities . includes : ( 6 ) Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields : ( i ) In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already available in the private sector . Note : Use to conduct business with or for the US Government is not considered as competition with civil airports . ( ii ) Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator . ( iii ) Solely for transient aircraft servicing . ( iv ) By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airworthiness standards . ( v ) That selectively promotes , benefits , or favors a specific commercial venture unless equitable consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances . ( vi ) For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts . ( vii ) Solely for customs-handling purposes . ( viii ) When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway is restricted from use by all aircraft .
Landing at a US military base is n't all that hard ( I 've landed at Ft. Drum before ) , you just have to get prior permission ( PPR ) ( submitted at least 30 days in advance and confirmed within 24 hours according to 32 CFR 855.8 ) , and need to have a " good reason " ( as determined by them ) . <URL> ( which is quite long ) includes the purposes that are normally allowed . You will be required to submit the following forms to the base commander ( See the A/FD ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> contains the regulations pertaining to US Air Force airfields ( and the rules are similar for each branch ) . 855.1 - Policy includes : ( 1 ) Normally , landing permits will be issued only for civil aircraft operating in support of official Government business . Other types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances . Access will be granted on an equitable basis . ... ( 3 ) Any aircraft operator with an inflight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization . An inflight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight hazardous . 855.5 - Responsibilities and authorities . includes : ( 6 ) Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields : ( i ) In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already available in the private sector . Note : Use to conduct business with or for the US Government is not considered as competition with civil airports . ( ii ) Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator . ( iii ) Solely for transient aircraft servicing . ( iv ) By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airworthiness standards . ( v ) That selectively promotes , benefits , or favors a specific commercial venture unless equitable consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances . ( vi ) For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts . ( vii ) Solely for customs-handling purposes . ( viii ) When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway is restricted from use by all aircraft .
end question
start question
What dictates the shape of the attitude indicator display on the PFD ?
A circle makes sense because a physical attitude indicator is round . ( A physical one has to be round because it consists of a ball moving behind a window . ) It makes the screen display look more like the instrument it replaces , which is good for recognition and familiarity , and makes it easier to judge things like bank angles . A rectangle makes sense because it has to fit on a rectangular screen . You can tile rectangular instruments/displays on a screen efficiently , with no wasted space between them , as your example shows with the tapes . Rounding the corners delineates the edges of the display better than just having abutting rectangles . The full process by which physical cockpit instruments and glass-cockpit displays are designed and laid out is too long to explain here . The main focus is on making it hard to make mistakes , and after that to make it quick to see the most important information . To support this , each instrument has to be easy to identify and to read correctly . Despite the shape difference , the two designs look very similar . Even if you 've never flown any of these aircraft before , you 'd immediately recognise it as an attitude indicator , and you would n't confuse it with a different instrument .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
Just visited a facility and learned what this is . ERIDS provides digital access to static documents like standard procedures and things of that nature . ERIDS provides easier access to these documents than would otherwise be possible . ERIDS also provides a way ( not the only way ) to access NOTAMs or PIREPS or send PIREPS . I know controllers have other ways to access this information ; I am not sure about other personnel . Having multiple ways to access or send this information is helpful to controllers as there may be multiple controllers in a sector and they may need to both access these services . Essentially , ERIDS is just an informational system that is easy to access in an air route traffic control facility .
Taking off with wet wings is not a problem , the airflow is going to blow the water off long before it reaches the freezing point . There 's no concerns here . Given the scenario what I would be concerned about would be ice elsewhere on the airframe . 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) could mean that the aircraft was frozen overnight , and there could be ice left over where the sun did n't melt it off . That kind of ice would n't necessarily impact the airflow on the wing , but it would make the airplane heavier and therefore impact performance . A simple visual check on the walk-around will confirm this . If there is ice left then deal with it even if it 's not on the wing or tail , if it 's just wet then get in and fly .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
The trim tab is like a control surface for the control surface . By changing camber at the rear end of the control surface , it creates a local force which changes the balance of forces such that the force-free deflection angle ( sometimes called auswehwinkel after the German word for this angle ) is shifted in a direction opposite to the deflection of the tab . You could do the same with springs along the control rods , or a mass somewhere which pulls the control surface to the same force-free angle . But when speed changes , so do the aerodynamic forces , and your force-free angle will change . The forces caused by the tab change with airspeed , so the force-free angle set by a tab is unaffected by speed . Do n't confuse a trim tab with a Flettner tab : The trim tab stays at the same angle with varying control deflection , while the Flettner tab will move in opposite direction to reduce the stick forces caused by the deflection of the control surface . By setting the zero-deflection position of a Flettner tab , it can in parallel work like a trim tab and shift the zero-force deflection angle to the desired point . Small aircraft like the Diamond Katana even have an anti-Flettner , where the tab is moving in the same direction as the control surface in order to increase stick forces . This is needed to fulfill certification requirements . In practice , a combination of both springs and tabs is used to set the desired control forces and their gradient over speed .
The locks release and typically the gear falls free into place . It is often aided by hydraulic motors ( i.e. to overcome anything that might be trying to hold the gear up , such as slush from the takeoff runway that froze after the gear was in the well ) , but most landing gear will freefall into place within a couple of seconds even without hydraulic assistance after the uplocks are released . What you 're probably hearing is the sudden onset of the wind noise -- when retracted the landing gear is streamlined , but when extended there is now an open cavity where the gear had been , and this open area in the fuselage creates a lot of wind noise from the suddenly turbulent airflow . Going from a relatively quite state to a loud one suddenly gives the impression of a " bang . " This is possibly enhanced by whatever noise is made by the uplocks that hold the landing gear in place releasing , and perhaps some louder noise as the initial moments of the gear extension may be noisier than the steady-state noise of being fully extended . Also , the noise due to the turbulence will subside as the airspeed slows , and extending the landing gear often comes during a phase of flight when the airspeed is being reduced in preparation for the final approach segment and the subsequent landing .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
The Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance ( SCAP ) interface is a standardised model for calculating aircraft performance of air transport category aircraft . The SCAP standard is <URL> and leading aircraft manufacturers . From the IATA website : One particularly complex requirement is the calculation of takeoff performance data . Most airlines use programs supplied by the airplane manufacturers for each airplane type , and interface these programs with their own computer operating environment , airfield database , and data output format requirements . In order to reduce the development effort for the airlines ( interfacing with different airplane manufacturers ' programs ) and manufacturers ( meeting individual airline requirements for customer-specific features ) there are clear advantages in standardizing as much as possible the input/output features of these programs , and also data formats . Having recognised this potential benefit , IATA , ATA and several manufacturers set up a Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance Task Force ( SCAP TF ) . A SCAP module is a FORTRAN program that implements the SCAP standard . It takes a set of well defined inputs to produce a well defined output . The advantage of this approach is that it is possible for a third party to design a software program that requires aircraft performance data without having access to this proprietary data . The software can then be used for aircraft performance calculations of any aircraft as long as it has access its SCAP modules . There are 6 SCAP specifications for Takeoff , Landing , Climbout , Inflight , Noise and APM ( Aircraft Performance Monitoring ) . I do n't have access to the official SCAP specification , but from what I can find online I gather that for take-off performance the following is required : TODA ( Take-Off Distance Available ) TORA ( Take-Off Run Available ) ASDA ( Accelerate Stop Distance Available ) runway elevation runway surface condition runway heading wind speed and direction ambient Temperature QNH MEL/CDL items affecting performance max take-off thrust and reduced ( FLX ) option anti-icing options flap settings V1/VR ( fixed or opt ) V2/VS ( fixed or opt ) minimum acceleration altitude actual take-off weight I gather the landing SCAP module needs : LDA ( Landing Distance Available ) runway surface condition runway elevation runway heading wind speed and direction ambient temperature MEL/CDL items affecting performance approach type ( CAT I/II/III ) anti-icing options presence of residual ice flap setting ( fixed or opt ) expected landing weight
Are you asking about the rear support wheel ? It is for supporting the aircraft and avoiding tilt on the ground . <URL> Image from wikimedia commons . Autor : M Radzi Desa As the aircraft had four engines in the aft , the cg would 've been aft too ; so they added a tail prop to prevent tilt on ground . Interestingly , this does n't seen to be unique for Il-62 . Another aircraft with rear mounted engine , Sud Aviation Caravelle , has something similar to this . <URL> Image from wikimedia commons . Author : Eduard Marmet
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
Generally there are two ways to get an interpretation of regulations from the FAA . The first ( less-formal ) way would be to call or email your <URL> with your question -- they will usually get back to you pretty quickly with a verbal opinion or an email ( on the two occasions I 've contacted the local FSDO I 've gotten an answer within 1-2 days ) . Interpretations from your local FSDO are essentially valid within their coverage area ( if you get an opinion from Farmingdale in New York the folks in Los Angeles , California may not honor it ) . The second ( very formal ) way is to write an actual on-paper letter to the FAA 's office of the chief counsel requesting a legal interpretation of some specific regulation ( s ) and <URL> : This request should be as specific as you can make it , for example : May the FAA hold a person who performs maintenance on an aircraft responsible for the proper performance of that maintenance under 43.13 ( a ) and ( b ) when that person was not the person who made the maintenance record entry required by 43.9 ? If your request is inspired by some ongoing action ( say a warning letter ) you should reference it and include a copy to help speed things along . The FAA 's legal staff will chew on the request for a while , and eventually produce <URL> ( the linked interpretation , which answers the example question above , took about 5 months , and it is a relatively simple interpretation - The more complex the regulation that needs to be interpreted the longer it will probably take ) . Counsel interpretations are organization-wide precedent , and <URL> . They are effective " The Final Word " on how regulations are to be applied ( unless overturned in court ) .
Attitude is orientation in space , that is the value of three angles : heading or yaw ( around the yaw axis ) pitch ( around the lateral axis ) roll or bank ( around the longitudinal axis ) . <URL> <URL> . In some strict definitions , the attitude of an aircraft is only pitch and roll , that is an orientation related to the horizon . But for applications that compute attitude , the yaw angle is also included . Its reference -- e.g. geographic North , or magnetic North -- must be specified . Attitude can be quantified as a <URL> or a matrix of angles , usually <URL> ( actually Tait -- Bryan 's angles ) . Attitude can be visualized using an attitude indicator or artificial horizon for roll and pitch , and an horizontal situation indicator or directional gyro for yaw : <URL> <URL> . Both can be combined into a single instrument , this is often the case for head up displays : <URL> <URL> . No translation is involved . Attitude can be understood as a shortcut for attitude of flight . In aerospace , the craft motion would be described in the horizontal plane ( horizontal route ) and vertical plane ( altitude profile ) .
<URL> to assist Harriers in getting airborne . The Harrier can not take-off vertically when fully loaded . <URL> . Therefore , they need to do a " short take-off " where the thrust nozzles are angled rearwards to provide thrust , then partially angled downwards as speed is gained to produce enough lift from the wings , and thrust angled downwards , to climb away . Watch the nozzles closely at about 17 and 36 seconds in <URL> . Try not to watch the poor chaps forehead too closely at 20 seconds . Also watch <URL> . At about 16 seconds , you can see the pilots left hand pull back on the <URL> as he passes the end of the deck . Now imagine a flat deck on an aircraft carrier . Operations must be able to carry on in rough seas . You accelerate down the deck and fly off the end , just as the deck dips downwards as the carrier rides a large wave . You are pointed straight at the sea . In order to avoid flying into the sea , you need to climb , which means pulling G and a lot of power at low speed which the Harrier just did n't have . Now consider the ski jump . There are two effects . The jump is angled so that even in the worst seas in which operations will continue , the bow pitching down will not point an aircaft leaving the end of the jump towards the sea . The aircraft will always be pitched upwards . Imagine driving a fast car up the jump and off the end . It will be thrown up and forward in a <URL> . Even a car , which can not fly , will be pointing up for a few seconds , then level for few seconds before falling into the sea . But instead of a car , you are driving a jet which can fly and has thrust . The aircraft will angle the nozzles rearwards for maximum acceleration until it leaves the jump . The wings are now generating significant lift , let 's say 50 % of that required to climb away . As you leave the end of the jump , you angle the nozzles downwards so that you have the momentum of the aircraft and some rearward thrust maintaining lift on the wings whilst adding lift from the thrust vector having a downward component . Those seconds of pointing up , then level , enable the aircraft to continue to accelerate until all of the lift required can be gained from the wing when the nozzles can now be angled rearward again to continue the acceleration . Take-off speed is therefore reduced and take-off distance is about halved meaning smaller , cheaper carriers . That 's how Harriers do it . I imagine it 's the same story for any other VSTOL aircraft .
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
2D is a simplification of real life ... it 's very difficult to translate something 2D to something 3D . However there are approximations but I can tell you that no exact method is available . One of the key components of drag that you are missing in 2D is the induced drag , which is the drag generated by a wing simply because it has a finite dimension . The difference in circulation created by each airfoil has an influence over the complete wing . There is a theory which is linear and non-viscous that helps to compute the aerodynamic components of the wing , based on the aerodynamic characteristics of the airfoils the wing is made of . It also allows you to create twist . It is subject to simplifications such as as being linear and missing viscosity , but it provides a very good approximation for the effort ( analytical for a significant amount of cases , and excel does the work for others ) . The theory is the <URL> and what you just need to is : add the induced drag provided by the theory ( you do n't have it in your airfoil ) : $ \ C _ { D_i } = \ frac { { C_L } ^ 2 } { \ pi \ text { AR } e } $ You need to know the planform for being able to make the integral of your wing , but the following equation will save you some time : $ \ C _ { L3D } = C _ { l _ \ alpha } \ left ( \ frac { \ text { AR } } { \ text { AR } +2 } \ right ) \ alpha $
Even small 1 hp electrical motors can achieve that RPM Yes , but can it sustain that RPM when something tries to stop it , that is the question . 1 hp combustion engines can get to 2700 rpm as well , but you can not attach a propeller to it , stick it in the air , and expect it to maintain the RPM . It takes a lot of torque to create aerodynamic thrust . It is a fact that electric motors are way better at producing torque than combustion engines . An electric motor produces almost maximum torque at the get-go , with the rotor standing still . The combustion engine needs to make RPM in order to make torque . <URL> compares electric motors with combustion engines for powering a hydraulic pump : a 20 hp electric motor can do the job that a 50 hp combustion engine can do . Electric motor : <URL> Combustion engine : intermittent torque means torque pulse from combustion . <URL> But wait , is that even possible ? Power is power , kilowatt is kilowatt , and it should not matter which engine we use to generate the kilowatts , they should all equate to equal amounts says the first law of thermodynamics , the conservation of energy . But it does matter , since with a combustion engine torque is a function of RPM . So increase RPM , and power increases due to increased RPM and increased torque . At lower RPM the combustion engine may simply lack the torque to speed up , while the electric motor has an almost flat torque curve . This same happens with outboard motors , when comparing 2-stroke with 4-stroke . 2-stroke has way more torque at lower revs , the 4-stroke may have the same horsepower but may never get to the high revs because it lacks the ability to get the boat planing . But I digress . To get back to your questions : What 's the use of so much torque , and what happens if there is less torque at the same RPM To keep the output shaft at this RPM while the propeller is pushing all that air backwards . That requires a serious amount of torque . If there is less torque at the same RPM , there will be less thrust produced and the aeroplane wo n't fly as fast . Can an electric motor perform similar to the Lycoming IO-360 with the same max . RPM , but with just half the torque of the latter ? Well , the surprising thing is that a horsepower is not a horsepower . Part of the problem lies in the horsepower output functions , so maybe an electric motor with a lower hp rating can be used . But one thing is very clear : at the RPM of the propeller , a certain torque is required at a certain speed to keep the propeller turning . This amount of torque will always be the same , no matter what kind of engine produces it .
The problem is that you 're using the Flight Operations Manual , and not the Schematic Manuals . Quite frankly , FOM 's pretty much suck in terms of technical details , but that 's not their purpose either . In regards to your question about what the channels are : Channels are really just a euphemism for system redundancy . The FAC 's are two completely separate entities ( with crosstalk capabilities ) - kind of like flight crews . The PIC ( pilot-in-command ) has primary control of the aircraft , while the SIC ( second-in-command ) has the same independent authority . The PIC and SIC can talk to one another , and monitor what each is doing . If the PIC falls ill , becomes incapacitated , etc. . the SIC can take over the functions of the PIC . The FAC 's work the same way . They both receive the same information , and have full capability of performing the work of one another . Take note of this schematic , courtesy of Airbus ( <URL> ) , and which I took the liberty of highlighting : <URL> Basically , what this schematic is saying is that the ELAC 's , under normal law , provide turn coordination and dutch roll damping to the FAC 's . They do this by receiving inputs from the rudder pedals , sidesticks , FMGC 's , ADIRU 's , SFCC , LGCIU 's , and hyd pressure . Based on those inputs , it computes the proper yaw commands and sends that to the FAC 's . It should be noted that both FAC 's receive the same information on , you guessed it , separate channels . What does that mean ? The data from ELAC 1 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires . Inside the FAC 's , those data paths are split as well ( Channel A &amp; Channel B ) and a separate processor computes the data on Channel A &amp; the data on Channel B. Never the two shall meet . Likewise , the data from ELAC 2 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires , and again , those two data paths shall never meet . At the same time , both FAC 's are receiving the same FMGC , ADIRU , SFCC , LGCIU data that the ELAC is . Again ... Separate wires , separate outputs , and computed with two different processors inside the boxes . The FAC 's are also receiving hydraulic pressure , commanded rudder trim position , and SEC fault data . Guess what ? All on different channels . Now , take note of the highlighted portion in red . Ordinarily , FAC 1 is in control of the servo loop for the RTL Motors . This essentially means that based on ALL of the inputs received from the ELAC 's and other independent systems , the FAC 1 sends a signal to the rudder travel motor and says " Move here . " The motor moves , and a feedback signal from the RTLU circuitry is sent to the FAC saying " Here I am . " When the commanded position of the surface position minus the actual position of the surface is approximately ~ 0 , the surface is nulled . This is a basic feedback loop/servoloop . The FAC 2 has the exact same capabilities as FAC 1 . The two are in constant communication , making sure that neither has failed . If FAC 1 reports a self-failure , or FAC 2 detects a problem with FAC 1 and/or its servo loop , FAC 2 can immediately take over . Notice that FAC 2 is responsible for the M2 ( second motor ) of the rudder travel limit system , and FAC 1 is responsible for the M1 ( primary motor ) of the rudder travel limit system . The wiring for the motors and its associated servo loop are completely separate . Again , the idea is complete system isolation . As such , any one failure can not take out the entirety of a system . All of the above is under the presumption of NORMAL LAW . It appears that cracked solder joints , emphases on the plural form , caused failures of Channel A &amp; Channel B of the RTLU ( see page 66 of accident report ) . Basically , like I mentioned previously , FAC 2 was monitoring FAC 1 for faults with it or its associated servo loop . When RTL channel A failed ( the servo loop feeding data back to FAC 1 ; associated with Motor 1 ) , the FAC 2 picked up on it , and took over on its own separate channel . A cracked solder joint on RTL channel B caused FAC 2 to trigger a failure . At some point during these failures , the flight crew pulled the circuit breakers , presumably to reset the faults . The loss of both FAC 's put the aircraft into alternate law . Once the aircraft was in alternate law , it seemed that there was a lot of confusion as to what was happening . From there , things went from bad to disastrous .
end question
start question
Why are you required to commit to a full stop landing if reverse thrust is selected ?
The biggest problem is that thrust reversers take time to move . During that time they are still producing reverse thrust ( even if only at idle ) and slowing you down . They must all completely close before you get forward thrust and can add power to start accelerating again . Then , what happens if they do n't stow , or only part of them stow ? Now you 've used up valuable runway that could have been used to stop ( or at least slow down more ) and are no longer in a position to takeoff from . The consequences can be pretty severe .
On typical Boeing throttles , <URL> but similar on all Boeings , the reverse thrust levers must be lifted to engage reverse . In order to do this , the thrust levers must be in the idle gate and can not be advanced until the reverse thrust levers as stowed . The reverse levers engage locks in the thrust levers . <URL> , at 2:50 , you can see the thrust levers being retarded to idle , then the reverse thrust levers being pulled up . At 3:22 they are stowed . <URL> , you can see that the Airbus system is very similar .
Perusing the A380 Training Guide , Edition 01 , 01 Sep 2008 , Section 5 - Engine Starts , Subsections 5.8.6 ( Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ) , 5.8.6 Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ECAM actions -- ENGINE MASTER OFF . Check MEL , and in conjunction with , advise LAE of situation in preparation for Start Valve Manual Operation . For Start Valve Manual Operation on Engines # 2 and # 4 , the adjacent engine ( if already running ) will require shutdown , to enable LAE 's access to the manual start override procedure on the port side of the affected engine . As the CAB Pb on the RMP is common to the Cockpit , Ground and Cabin Crew , advise the Cabin Crew to refrain from using the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . When ready , accomplish normal engine start sequence : a ) Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . b ) Engine Master Lever to ON . c ) Command LAE to OPEN START VALVE AND KEEP OPEN . d ) At 50 % N3 , command LAE , START VALVE CLOSE . e ) Monitor engine parameters closely until stabilized . Advise Cabin Crew upon completion of procedure . In flight , only windmilling start will be available . Glossary ( correct if needed , please ) : ECAM = Electronic Centralised Aircraft Monitor LAE = Licensed Aircraft Engineer CAB = Cabin Pb = Pushbutton RMP = Radio Management Panel IGN = Ignition N1/N2/N3 = N1 is LP ( Low Pressure stage ) , N2 is IP ( Intermediate Pressure stage ) , N3 is HP ( High Pressure stage ) MEL = Minimum Equipment List ECAM will display " ENG MASTER X ... ... OFF " ( X will be the engine with stuck valve ) <URL> ( The message will appear in the lower left quadrant . ) Check the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) to determine if loss of engine is GO , GO IF , or NO GO , if failure is not in the MEL , it is classified by default as NO GO . Advise the on-site Licensed Aircraft Engineer ( LAE ) of the warning message in preparation for completing the Start Valve Manual Operation procedure . If the engine with the stuck valve is # 2 ( left side inboard ) or # 4 ( right side outboard ) , the adjacent engine will be required to be shutdown before commencing the manual start procedure . ( This is because the engineer has to access the left side of the engine and for safety 's sake the other engine , which would be gehind him must be shut down . If the fault is on the left outboard ( # 1 ) then the engineer would be on the far side of the engine from the # 2 so # 2 does not need to be shutdown . ) Since the Cabin Pushbutton ( CAB Pb ) on the Radio Management Panel ( RMP ) is common to the Cockpit , the Cabin Crew area AND the Ground circuit , the pilot should advise the Cabin Crew to not use the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . ( If the pilot and the engineer are discussing starting the engine ( or not ) they do n't want a flight attendant to be talking about starting pre-flight stuff at the same time , if the engineer heard the word start , he might wrongly assume it was the pilot . ) When pilot and engineer are ready , begin the normal engine start sequence with changes : a ) Turn the Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . <URL> b ) Flip the Engine Master Lever ( For the faulted engine ) to ON . <URL> c ) Over the interphone , command the engineer to manually open the start valve and keep it open . ( I have n't yet looked for and found a schematic for an example engine , sorry . As shown in other diagrams/answers , it might be a socket wrench , etc. ) d ) Watch the Engine Warning Display . <URL> <URL> Once N3 is spun up to 50 % , over the interphone , command the engineer to manually close the start valve . e ) Monitor the engine parameters closely until all are properly stable . f ) After the engineer has closed up the engine and vacated the area , start the other engines , if one was shut down per step 3 . Over the cabin interphone , notify the cabin crew that the procedure is complete . ( so they can resume using the interphone if needed . ) If the engine failed in-flight and upon restart a stuck valve warning was shown , all of the above would not be possible . At that time , the only way to restart the engine would be to attempt a windmill start ( using the flow of air through the engine to turn the engine ) , there are other procedures for that . Also , I do not yet have the engine schematics to show what the LAE actually does .
This actually came up <URL> recently -- the answer ( if only the two pilots are on board ) is a qualified " No " , not because the time is n't " compensation " but because the safety pilot is a required crewmember for simulated instrument flight . Since both pilots are required crewmembers the safety pilot is not acting as a PIC of a flight carrying passengers <URL> . ( Note however that while neither pilot is in simulated instrument conditions the safety pilot is not required crew , and therefore someone is PIC of a flight carrying at least one passenger - so log your time carefully and try to wrap your head around a " pro rata share " of that mess . ) This is further addressed ( more directly ) in <URL> . Note that if we 're talking about a flight with more than the two pilots on board ( carrying someone who is NOT a required crewmember , like a friend in the back seat ) then the whole thing goes out the window : No matter who is acting as the Legal PIC for the flight they 're " PIC of a flight carrying passengers " , and you 're back to <URL> territory .
Farhan 's answer covered why the deck is angled in the first place . As far as why the landing area of the deck points left instead of right , this is for several reasons : Angling to port makes the most use of the deck area behind the catapults . Angling starboard would require the catapults to be shifted left off the centerline of the carrier ( yes , the carrier does have two additional catapults on the port side , but these ca n't be used while the carrier is retrieving aircraft , which is more often than you 'd think as the carrier maintains regular patrols ) . Angling the landing strip toward the " island " ( conning tower ) of the carrier just does n't sound like a good idea when you say it . That goes double when you realize the carrier is underway while you 're trying to land on it , and therefore you have to lead the landing strip a little . If you do n't , you 'll end up " behind " the ship and the landing strip . With the landing strip angled to port , a plane on a " lagging " approach ( lined up " behind " where the carrier 's going to be at touchdown ) will have a relatively clear path off to port for a wave-off . Angled to starboard , a plane that 's " lagging " the carrier would be pointed right at the tower . It would be possible to mirror the entire deck layout ; island to port , landing area angled starboard . The reason the island is on the starboard side is primarily convention ; all U.S. Navy aircraft carriers ever built have been either flush-decked or have had the island to the right . That 's thus a familiar sight picture for naval pilots across all eras , and easy to train to . A new carrier design does n't get the luxury of a whole new crew trained an entirely different way ; the Navy 's been training pilots since 1910 , they 've been landing planes on boats since 1927 , and they 'll do it they way they 've been doing it for 88 years , thank you very much . The Imperial Japanese Navy commissioned two carriers , Akagi and Hiryu , with island-left designs , fielded with the idea that the island-left carrier would sail in formation with an island-right carrier in the same flag group , with opposing traffic patterns that did n't conflict . This procedure never materialized in practice ; most carrier groups in both Japanese and U.S. fleets ended up with a single carrier due to their high cost and lower total number , a pattern that continues today , and even when two ( or more ) carriers were close enough to be called part of the same naval group , they typically maintained a wide enough spacing to permit a left-hand pattern for both ships .
The Bell Helicopter <URL> covers survivability in Appendix 1 . Specifically it refers to Redundant Fly-by-Wire Controls Redundant Electrical Power Redundant Hydraulics Swashplate Actuator Armor implying that this possibility has been engineered to a minimum . Nevertheless , the premise of your question is that it 's occurred , so further on in the same section we see V-22 crashworthiness is a function of design . Heavy components , such as the engines and transmissions , are located away from the cabin and cockpit area . The proprotors are designed to fray or " broomstraw " rather than splinter on impact with the ground . The energy-absorbing landing gear system is designed to attenuate most of the energy for hard landings up to 24 fps . The wing is constructed to fail outboard of the wing/fuselage attachment in a manner that absorbs kinetic energy and ensures the cabin area will not be crushed , thereby protecting the occupants . An anti-plow bulkhead prevents the nose from digging in on impact , and the fuselage provides a reinforced shell that is designed to maintain 85 % of its volume during a crash . Aircrew and embarked troops receive additional protection from crashworthy seats that stroke vertically to absorb energy ( my emphasis ) Since the aircraft is still flying , I 'd head for the nearest decently equipped airfield , conduct a normal fixed wing approach and land , trusting that the rotors will sweep a nice clean path along the runway instead of peppering the fuselage with shrapnel . I 'd probably take the precaution of cutting power early to reduce the kinetic energy in the rotors before they hit the ground .
The clock needs to be positioned such that you can see it easily as part of your instrument scan , and the sweep second hand needs to be there to make it easy to time intervals that are not whole minutes . The regulation has been there for a long time , so the requirement should be considered in the light of how things used to be as well as what they are now . A very practical example from 1969 follows . The regulation predates that by many years , I am sure , but the 1969 environment shows the need . You 're in a light single engine airplane ( think Cessna 150 and later a Cessna 172 ) . You 're working on your instrument rating in actual conditions in the Pacific Northwest in a non-radar environment . You 're in moderate turbulence and having to keep on eye on the icing . And , though it seems ridiculous now , we did n't use headsets but instead picked up a mic for each transmission , of which there were many because in the non-radar environment there were lots of reports . You 're inbound to the VOR on the airport , after which you 'll proceed outbound to the NDB that is the final approach fix . Once at the NDB , you will fly 30 seconds farther outbound on the Rwy 16 ILS , which by the way since you have no HSI you 're having to navigate by reverse sensing on the old VOR/ILS CDI with its swinging left/right needle . At the 30 second point , you 're to turn right to the procedure turn outbound course and fly for 45 seconds ( but maybe if that wind is from the east you should go for 60 seconds - better watch that CDI needle to see how fast you get full deflection ) . Oh , damn , the instructor just covered up the directional gyro to simulate its failure . Now your only heading reference is the wet compass , which is bouncing around in the turbulence , and , besides , you ca n't remember whether it 's going to precede or lag ( and by how much ) in the turn you have to make to reverse course for the inbound leg of the procedure turn . Ah , but wait , all you have have to do is fly a standard-rate turn for 60 seconds and you 'll be in good shape . So , thus far , we 've had three separate needs to time things to seconds in a situation where we have our hands full - left hand on the yoke , right hand for throttle , carb heat , microphone . Given all that , do you really want to have to keep pulling back the sleeve on your left arm to monitor a relatively small clock face ? Much better to have a larger clock face right in front of you on the instrument panel . Do we really need such a clock now ? Perhaps not , but it does n't hurt , and regulations are notoriously resistant to change . And does anybody actually fly procedure turns anymore ?
This regulation does not apply to an ILS approach . You are right is saying that " the VOR system of radio navigation " refers to actual VORs . If the flight is conducted using GPS to an ILS approach then you are n't using VOR for navigation . It does not matter that ILS uses the same instrument display . Intuitively , though ILS and VOR use the same display and frequency band , they are functionally different . The VOR beacon sends out a omnidirectional signal , from which a bearing ( 0-359 degrees ) is calculated . The ILS sends out a focused , directional signal , which the receiver centers on .
If your thrust reversers are operational and debris is not a concern , you 're right for an in-service rejected takeoff ( RTO ) : There 's nothing that prevents the use of reverse thrust on a dry runway for an aborted takeoff . Most in-service RTOs utilize reverse thrust if available ( see <URL> for a dry-runway example ) . However , in order to certify a transport-category airplane , one must show compliance with <URL> , which precludes the use of thrust reversers on dry runways in calculating the accelerate-stop distance . The demonstration required by paragraph ( i ) , therefore , can not be conducted with reverse thrust on a dry runway . From a certification standpoint , the accelerate-stop calculation is made the way it is because that 's what the regulations say . But why is the law written this way ? See <URL> at about 1:12 : The whole intent is to demonstrate [ that ] under [ the ] worst conditions you can safely stop the aircraft . " Worst conditions " encompasses at least inoperative thrust reversers and worn brakes .
No it is not required to contact approach . Unless you have to go through a larger D , C or B airspace to get there . I do n't know of any larger Ds in the US , but there are plenty of D-airfields underneath C and B airspace . In Germany ( and I think around Europe , not sure though ) , there 's a distinction between the tower-D and the approach-D ( the former being called D-CTR , and the other just D ) , to enter the approach-D you 'd have to talk to approach , but if you can sneak under/around it , go ahead and call the tower directly , let them know where you are , and they 'll tell you how to enter their airspace . In the US , they 'll probably just tell you to enter the pattern ( like " N12345 , enter and report the right base for runway 5 " ) . In Europe you need an explicit clearance and they 'll usually tell you how to enter ( like " DEFGH , enter control zone via Echo , report Echo " , Echo being a reporting point on the chart , Echo usually being to the east , with November , Whiskey and Sierra being north , west and south respectively ( usually , that is , there may be more , and they may be placed differently , but they 're always on the sectional or the terminal area chart )
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
Given how few bounding criteria you have in your question , the general result is For fixed wing aircraft : your ground speed will be significantly higher than if you 'd taken off heading into the same wind , and thus you 'll tend to use up more runway before lifting off . Example : with a take off speed of 100 kts , going into or downwind is the difference between 90 knots or 110 knots ground speed before reaching take off speed when the wind down the runway is 10 knots . This difference becomes more pronounced as wind speed increases ; it 's a differential of 2 x wind speed . With a long enough runway it wo n't matter in terms of " taking off before running out of runway . " On a short field it may matter a great deal . For Rotary Wing aircraft : you may need a bit more power to hover when lifting off with a tail wind . <URL> : Headwinds are the most desirable as they contribute to the greatest increase in performance . { snip } When taking off into a headwind , effective trans lational lift is achieved earlier , resulting in more lift and a steeper climb angle . When taking off with a tailwind , more distance is required to accelerate through translational lift . For a variety of aircraft types , if the tail wind is high enough your manual will recommend against/prohibit down wind takeoffs , but that varies enough between models and types that a general answer ca n't encompass all of the variations .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
I like to answer your question with a short example . A few days ago I flew to Venice ( untowered ) and decided for a teardrop entry to set up for the 45 . My calls were 10 and 5 miles out , both ending with " any traffic please advise " guess what I saw overtaking me on my 4 o'clock position only a few hundred feet away at same altitude ( 500 feet above pattern ) . It is legal to make a straight in , but before you think about the time or fuel you waste please think about your own and even the guys who 's not on CTAF and obviously heads down safety . If you fly the 45 and the continue the pattern ( it 's not allways left , check your sectional and the A/FD ) everybody knows what the other one is doing and if necessary can act accordingly .
It 's a bad idea to give false information to a controller as a matter of practice . Instead of calling yourself a student when you 're not , it would be better to say you 're unfamiliar with the area or that your English is not perfect . Controllers are almost always accommodating to less-than-proficient pilots and will usually make allowances whenever time and traffic permits . If your English is not good , be sure and use simple , direct phraseology . Read the AIM to become familiar with the common phrases used with ATC . Even something as simple as hearing " radar identified " in Canada instead of the usual U.S. phrase " radar contact " has caused many a native English speaker to reply " say again ? "
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
A " circle-to-land " maneuver is basically a low-altitude traffic pattern - albeit one that you arrived at by being guided in on some instrument approach . The magic that makes this low ( and possibly abbreviated ) pattern possible is that the runway ends at airports with circling approaches have protected ( obstacle free ) airspace around them , which looks something like this : ( A more detailed explanation of the size of the circling approach area can be found <URL> . ) Since it 's basically a traffic pattern my understanding is you treat it as such , and that as long as you stay in visual contact with the airport and within the protected airspace ( by visually judging your distance from the field , and knowing your altitude ) you 're unlikely to hit anything , and you can do all your usual pattern maneuvering as long as you can *** visually * be sure you 're within the pretty blue part of the image above ( your GPS cant help you here ) . To see what this means for an example approach with some turns , consider my liberally-stolen and slightly-marked-up diagram below . If you lose contact with your intended runway end for a few seconds because of the turn/bank required at point " A " that 's OK : as long as you can still maintain visual contact with the airport/runway environment when you roll out ( say by looking out the back window ) , and as long as you can remain clear of clouds , and can maintain visual clearance from any potential obstacles you may continue the approach . If you 're flying out and on the leg from " A " to " B " and all of a sudden you look back out the window and the airport is gone in the haze and clouds , you need to go missed : You 've lost the airport/runway environment , and can no longer judge your distance to stay in the " safe " airspace . Similarly if you 're in a high-wing aircraft and your turns at " B " and " C " briefly obscure the airport while you 're turning you can still continue the approach - if you 've any doubt where the airport is just pick up the wing like you would in a VFR pattern ( and if the airport is n't there like it 's supposed to be go missed ! ) Regarding your bird scenario , that 's an interesting one that I do n't think is covered in any diagrams , but if a flock of birds causes you to maneuver in such a way that you lose contact with the airport ( and you ca n't just pick up a wing and have it be right where you expected it to be ) you 're obviously going to have to abandon the approach and go missed . It 's the equivalent of the airport disappearing in the haze on that A-to-B leg . Honestly though , if a flock of birds shows up and hangs out in a way that requires you to start maneuvering around them while you 're trying to shoot a circling approach in real IFR you may want to just go missed anyway ( given the odds this probably wo n't cost you too many approaches ) . In a real world situation with poor visibility , possibly precipitation , and likely a cloud ceiling really close to your altitude , do you really want to try to be maneuvering down low to avoid some stupid bird that could n't even be bothered to call the tower ? Would n't you feel much better pointing the aircraft in a generally " upward " direction and following the nice friendly needle again for a little while ? I 'm just starting my IFR training , but I think I 'd feel better with that option :-)
Three reasons I can think of : It 's easy to detect the general presence of a specific transmitting device ( a WiFi antenna , say ) , but very hard to precisely localize it . They could tell if there 's one on the plane , but someone with a very sensitive piece of equipment would have to walk up and down the aisles pointing it at people to actually find it in somebody 's pocket . And cellphones ( when not in use ) are generally burst transmitters : they do n't broadcast continuously , they just " ping " the tower every so often . This means it could take a long time and a lot of aisle-pacing . Many " electronic devices " which are banned are entirely passive and have no traceable [ * ] emissions . Think cameras , handheld GPS receivers , iPods . ( On the other hand this passiveness also means they are extremely unlikely to harmfully interfere with the operation of the airplane , but right or wrong , such devices are still banned in some cases . ) It 's not that important . There are a few incidents where electronic interference is suspected as a possible factor , but no conclusive evidence . As soon as there is actually a fatal accident where an electronic device can be conclusively blamed as the cause ( and I doubt this will happen ) , the airlines will be a lot more willing to spend the kind of money that would be required to implement this . For a full , evidence-based discussion of the actual risks , I refer you to this question on Skeptics Stack Exchange : <URL> [ * ] No traceable emissions . All electronic devices generate some very , very tiny incidental signals . But these are so weak that they will be virtually impossible to detect on a crowded plane filled with its own ( approved ) electronics . Such emissions are measured in laboratories with extremely sensitive antennas in special , heavily-shielded rooms under carefully controlled conditions .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
end question
start question
How do aircraft steer on ground ?
All of these methods are used . Nosewheel steering is common on most commercial aircraft using a tiller . Rudder , differential braking , differential thrust and even motors in the wheels ( experimental only as far as I know ) are also used , <URL> . Engine thrust is used to move forward but differential thrust might also be used when negotiating tight turns . <URL>
The verb , " to taxi , " as it relates to a moving airplane on the ground , dates to about 1911 . The verb appears to be derived from the noun , " taxi , " referring to a nearly flightless training aircraft that dates to about 1909 . The word may allude to driving around like a taxicab , as others surmise , or it may relate to the fact that flight instructors gave rides to new students in the " taxi " airplane . Eventually , they started calling getting around on the ground ( or water ) " taxiing . " The expression started at Henri Farman 's flight school outside Paris , and was later picked up by pilots at flight schools in England . A " taxi " had shorter wings and a heavier body , so that it could not really take off and fly away at the hands of a new pilot , but a new pilot could get the feel of handling the aircraft and learn to take off and fly short distances , especially downhill along a slope . See : <URL>
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
Steer : No . Stop : Yes . Thrust reversers are either in or out . They can not be engaged proportionally to some control setting in the cockpit . Once they are unlocked , the airflow through them sucks them out completely . The only way to vary their braking effect would be to throttle the engine up or down , and airliner engines react rather sluggishly to control inputs . Their responsiveness will not suffice to steer the aircraft ; only rudder inputs ( and those only at higher speed ) , nose wheel steering and differential braking with the wheel brakes are suitable for directional control on the ground . Their braking effect is biggest at high speed and tapers off as the aircraft decelerates . For the first third of the landing run they will help noticeably in slowing the aircraft , but you will need a long runway when you want to land without wheel brakes . Details depend on landing weight , airfield elevation and wind speed .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
The step-to-step guide : 1 . Search for Flight Number : Get hold of the flight number , such as LH123 or AA789 for instance . This is usually found on your ticket , baggage tag or some email . Enter it on a site such as <URL> or <URL> . Note down the registration ( such as N1234A or D-ABYT ) for the flight on the day your are interested in . 2 . Search for this Registration : Try entering it on for instance <URL> which is often considered a reliable source for aircraft data . You should be able to get the aircraft history : First flight and delivery dates ( and hence aircraft age ) Previous operators and registrations . MSN ( manufacturer serial number )
There is a variety of sounds an aircraft can produce , some even depending on the type of aircraft you are sitting in . Without any further data or reference , the most likely events that you can hear during pushback , taxi or vacating the runway are : Cargo Doors being shut and locked Flaps being extended to take-off position Flaps being raised after landing There are many more things that you can hear from the cabin , so without further information , it will be difficult to pin-point . Another option , if it was predominantly on Airbus aircraft , is the <URL> , which is described to sound like a <URL> or <URL> . See also this question and the answers : <URL>
The short answer is that there 's no real difference between a " trainer " aircraft and an " owner " aircraft when they roll off the manufacturer 's assembly line . Below are two mid-1970s Piper Cherokee Cruisers - take my word for it that they both have virtually identical instruments , avionics , and interior finishing . One of these airplanes is the " trainer " I did much of my early training in , and had a little over 11,000 hours of flight time as of when the school sold it . The other is ( probably ) an owner-flown airplane with about 2,000 hours of flight time . Can you tell which is which ? The answer is in the spoiler box at the end of this post . " Trainer " aircraft generally have flight and operational characteristics that makes them " suitable for use in training " -- though what that means <URL> . In modern training aircraft you 'll almost always find the following : Dual controls Much like a Driver 's Education car has an extra brake , aircraft used for training will have dual controls so your flight instructor can correct any mistakes the student makes before they become dangerous . ( Dual controls are in fact required for flight training , at least under FAA regulations , though interestingly <URL> . ) 2-4 person seating capacity Hand in hand with dual controls goes dual seating - You need a place for both a student and an instructor . You do n't generally find many trainers that will seat more than four people , as those larger aircraft cost more to purchase and operate . Some kind of intercom Students and instructors generally wear headsets , and an intercom system makes it easier for them to communicate . One or more Radio systems Part of flight training includes learning how to communicate with Air Traffic Control and other pilots , and how to use radio navigation systems . This requires at least a communication radio , so there 's usually one either installed or available ( a handheld unit ) , and in most modern trainers you 'll find one or more navigation radios of various types . In addition trainer aircraft tend to be inexpensive to maintain ( mechanically simple ) , operate ( relatively fuel-efficient ) , and tend toward the slower end of the speed spectrum ( because it 's easier for a student to keep up with a slower aircraft ) . It 's important to note that not all " trainers " fit this mold : The <URL> is , by designation , a Trainer aircraft , but its goal was to train Air Force pilots , many of whom would go on to air combat roles . The things a T-6 is optimized to teach are very different from what a Piper Cherokee or Cessna 172 are optimized to teach . Not surprisingly many of those same characteristics are also desirable in a plane you might buy to fly yourself : Dual controls in case you take a friend or another pilot along ( or in case you want to take instruction in your own aircraft ) , an intercom to let you talk to your passengers , and radios so you can navigate and communicate in the air traffic system . Because of this many pilots who elect to buy an airplane purchase what we would consider " trainer-class " aircraft , frequently models similar to the ones they trained in ( and in the used market , frequently aircraft that were used for flight training at some point ) . When you leave the " trainer " range you tend to find faster aircraft , more complicated systems , more attractive finishing elements ( plush cabin interiors , fancy paint schemes ) , and more seating capacity . You also find aircraft that begin to specialize more : Where trainers tend to be well-rounded the " non-trainer " planes tend to excel in specific areas , serving specific niches in the market ( the <URL> is a high-performance aerobatic aircraft favored by many airshow performers , <URL> feature extensive speed optimizations and are favored by many pilots who use their planes for long-distance travel , the <URL> is a " luxury " cruiser/transportation aircraft suitable for flying corporate executives to and from smaller airports , etc. ) . N2269Q is the trainer , now sporting a shiny new paint job . N32711 is the owner-flown airplane , with its factory paint . ( <URL> )
Ideally , fiber composites are bonded and connected by a <URL> . The scarf ratio is determined by the ratio of <URL> and the shear strength of the resin . If your fiber takes 3000 N/mm ² , the resin transmits 20 N/mm ² and the fiber content is 60 % , the ratio is 1:90 , so a 1 mm thick composite layer would need to be joined over a length of 90 mm . In reality , such a ratio is impractical to achieve , so lap joints are used when accepted by the certification authorities . This is the case for for composite gliders , where you will find both scarf and lap joints . In the early days of powered composite aircraft , fiber composites were seen with the experience of aluminium in mind , and treated with the same methods . Therefore , the <URL> and its contemporaries had to use rivet joints throughout the structure . The idea was that by riveting the airframe could be more easily disassembled for inspection and repairs . Riveting carbon fiber composites is quite problematic : You need to use expensive titanium fasteners because aluminium rivets would quickly corrode when in electrical contact to the electrochemically much nobler carbon fibers . Drilling and countersinking holes cuts the very fibers which you try to connect , so you have to double up on wall thickness what is destroyed by the riveting . But the FAA still insisted on rivets - even stringers on panels were riveted , when bonding would had been the most sensible solution . Aircraft engineers have an expression for composites that are treated like metal : Black Aluminum . The LearFan was pure Black Aluminum . Many of the engineers in this project ended up with Beech when they produced the <URL> , so many of the same techniques were transferred as well . At least , the Starship had a fuselage shell which was laid up on a mandrill and then cut right aft of the cockpit section to get the mandrill out . The splicing of the two fuselage sections was then done by a tapered lap joint ; if you want , a practical way of making a not-quite scarf joint . Today we have a new generation of engineers who slowly accept that the nature of composite structures requires their own methods of treatment . But you will still find riveted joints even in modern composites structures . Old habits are hard to break .
Yes , a sonic boom produced at 60,000 ' can be heard on the ground . First of all , a sonic boom consist in a steep increase of air pressure , followed by a slow , linear decrease below the nominal ambient pressure , and again a steep increase back to the nominal pressure . It is therefore called N-shaped wave or just N-wave . Here is a graph with several sonic booms , measures by NASA and found on <URL> : <URL> The same wiki page cites a <URL> These measurements are from aircraft with different altitude . As sound pressure depends from distance like $ p \ sim \ frac { 1 } { r } $ , one may calculate the pressure for a certain altitude as in the following table . However , this assumes that the aircraft causes the same " boom intensity " at that altitude , which you should doubt at least for the SR-71 . As you can see , the Concorde is the loudest aircraft , the most comparable F-104 ( speed , altitude ) produces just 40 % of its sound pressure . But the F-104 is also much much smaller than the Concorde . The Space Shuttle is very loud for its low speed . However , it looks more like a flying brick than an elegant , streamlined aircraft , so no wonder that it creates strong shock waves . The SR71 seems to be very quiet for its speed , but as said , I do n't think you can pull it down to 48000ft and expect the same behaviour . However , a sonic boom starts to disperse in some ( larger ) distance , may be this already happened for the SR-71 . ( Also , it 's a spy plane with a very special shape - may be , this reduces the boom , too ) . It has to be said that it is hard to translate the numbers into a comparable sound level , because what makes up the loudness is not only the maximum pressure , but also the rise time . As counter-example , the air pressure changes by 130Pa every meter of altitude ( at ground ) , and you do n't hear the change of pressure when standing up from your chair ( ~ 100kPa ) Also , a sudden noise appears to be much louder than a noise slowly increasing to the same level - and the bang has the most sudden wave form possible . ( Listen loud music with earphones - when the player clips a second , the first moment after really hurts ) However , there is a <URL> listing noise sources and their levels . For example : These levels are effective sound pressure . To translate a perfect N-wave with given maximum pressure to effective pressure , you have to multiply the value by $ \ frac { 1 } { \ sqrt { 3 } } \ approx0 .577 $ . Thus , the sonic boom of the Concorde has an effective value of 57Pa , which is comparable to the trumpet in 0.5 m distance . ( As said , there is still a difference , because the boom is a sharp , short noise , but it gives an idea . ) By the way , I just stumbled <URL> , about primary and secondary sonic booms . <URL> It states that you hear a primary sonic boom coming from the aircraft within a lateral distance of ~ 20nm ( solid lines ) as well as a secondary boom within a distance of 60-85nm ( dashed lines ) . This secondary waves are a reflection of the upwards travelling shockwaves from the aircraft at the atmosphere . The secondary boom is not a short , loud bang , but a longer and less intense rumbling , making it difficult to identify the source .
One thing to note is that ' pure ' air dominance fighter or ground attack aircraft is not being developed anymore . Most of the combat aircraft developed recently/under development are multirole ( or ' omnirole ' ) aircraft . In case of air dominance ( or air superiority ) fighters , which have the task of eliminating enemy air defense system especially fighters and securing aerial control for operation of friendly forces without harassment , the following are important design objectives : High thrust to weight ratio , as it helps in maneuvers . Stealth , as the enemy ca n't shoot what he/she ca n't see . High maneuverability , for close combat situations and evasion . High weapons load , as it enables engagement of a large number of enemy aircraft at once . A good range , as it is better to engage enemy aircraft in their area rather than in friendly territory . A powerful radar to track and engage enemy aircraft , as it enables them to shoot first . Communication links to transfer data between the aircraft and between the AEWACS aircraft , as most of the aircraft today operate in an integrated battlefield . Speed is also a very important parameter . In case of ground support ( or attack ) aircraft , whose primary task is the destruction of enemy logistics and/or support for ground troops under fire , the designers look for similar yet a bit different set of characteristics . Ruggedness , as the aircraft should be able take some amount of punishment and return home . High endurance and Time on Target , as the ground troops may require support for an extended period of time , with corresponding weapons load . Communication links between aircraft and ground troops for obvious reasons . Precision targeting systems for situations where friendlies are in close contact with the enemy troops . Ability to operate from forward operating bases is desirable . Most of the present generation aircraft carry out their ground support duties using precision weaponry rather than any fundamental design decisions . Though there are still trade-offs , as in any aircraft design . The weapon load of stealth aircraft is lesser their non-stealthy counterparts as external weapons carriage increases the radar signature of the aircraft . For ground attack aircraft , a high subsonic speed is more than enough unlike the supersonic air dominance fighters . Low altitude maneuverability is important for ground attack aircraft for quick ingress and egress from the combat area . One aspect of aircraft design is that combat aircraft optimized for high altitude operations can face higher stresses when operating in lower altitudes ( i.e. near ground ) . For example , when USAF switched B-52s from high altitude bombing role to low altitude penetration tactics , it caused increased stress in the airframe .
The 737 does not have a separate AHRS . Those functions are simply outputs from the two IRS 's . <URL> ( <URL> ) 737 IRS panel . ATT ( attitude ) mode selects the AHRS-only output of the IRS .
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
There are generally two ways of determining the ground speed from within the aircraft . The first is by using an inertial navigation system . This consists of a number of accelerometers and gyroscopes that measure all accelerations and rotations of the aircraft throughout a flight . By mathematically integrating all measurements this navigation system is able to compute the speed and position of the aircraft at any time . The accuracy will degrade over time but ground speed is usually not far off , otherwise position would be far off very soon . The second method uses external radio signals . Nowadays this is mostly GPS , but ground speed is also determined by using a number of VOR ( VHF Omnidirection Range ) and/or DME ( Distance Measuring Equipment ) stations . These navigation beacons are widely available over most continents . A navigation computer would select the right set of beacons and by analysing the rate of change of the beacon bearings / distances the aircraft 's speed can be determined . Modern navigation systems combine all these methods into a one solution . GPS , inertial navigation and DME measurements are then fused mathematically together to obtain a highly accurate and robust position and ground speed .
I do n't agree with the strict enforcement of this rule by the DGCA ( but I 'm not an airline pilot so I think my opinion does n't really count on this matter ) . But there is logic behind the ban - many safety-critical actions are completed before the plane has left the gate . Such actions include calculating takeoff speeds , briefing the departure procedures , and completing various checklists . Having people in the cockpit could prove to be a big distraction when trying to complete these tasks , particularly when the time is limited anyway such as on a short turnaround . Making a mistake before leaving the gate can definitely end in disaster . Take <URL> in 2009 . The crew entered an incorrect takeoff weight into the system . As a result there was n't enough thrust to rotate and the A340 barely cleared the airport fence .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
The aircraft 's Flight Management System ( FMS ) can be loaded with software that periodically sends position reports and flight tracking data to ground stations via ACARS . If the particular software in use sends the full flight plan or at least the next few fixes periodically with estimated times , this would expose any changes in the flight plan to the dispatch office . The incident flight in question had its ACARS turned off at some point and the " 12 minute " figure is probably derived from the time between the last ACARS message being received and the radar observed turn off course initiated . They would not be able to know exactly when the buttons on the FMS were pressed , but they could narrow the time down to a range when information changed between two automated reports sent via ACARS . Relevant chronology : Interval : 12 minutes .
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
This is depending on which country the airplane is registered in , as the requirement to carry the logbook can be implemented per country , e.g. Germany requires the logbook to be carried onboard the airplane . [ LuftBO § 30 Abs . 5 ]
All of these methods are used . Nosewheel steering is common on most commercial aircraft using a tiller . Rudder , differential braking , differential thrust and even motors in the wheels ( experimental only as far as I know ) are also used , <URL> . Engine thrust is used to move forward but differential thrust might also be used when negotiating tight turns . <URL>
end question
start question
What are the pros and cons of high-wing compared to low-wing design ?
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
First you need a wing that is representative of a flightworthy article . Next , you need to collect the significant load cases . The most obvious one is that of maximum lift , but sometimes wings have failed even when they were strong enough to support the maximum bending moment . Torsion from aileron deflections and flutter are important , as is the in-plane bending moment from lift at high angle of attack . Normally , the wing is <URL> and computer-controlled hydraulic jacks are used to pull on it , but this can be made much simpler . Below you see the ultimate strength test on the <URL> wing : Discarded soda bottles were collected , filled with a pre-calculated amount of water and hung from the main spar while the center of the inverted wing was lifted up by a forklift . <URL> Load test on Dedalus wing . Yes , the guy with the Dedalus shirt is <URL> . Own work . Besides the maximum strength tests , fatigue tests are of equal importance . Here a statistical load distribution ( frequent low loads , infrequent high loads ) is applied to the wing over thousands of hours . These tests stretch into the early operational phase of a design , such that the structure is cleared for more hours as the test progresses .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
You are right , it helps to de-sweep the outer wing . However , as long as wings are made of aluminum , the manufacturing effort is significantly higher . The basic problem is the needed two-dimensional bending of the skin panels . Using a straight spar line and a straight leading edge requires bending only in one dimension , but when sweep changes , the skin panels would need to stretch in some corners while being bent . This requires much more expensive tooling , or a break in the structure which increases structural mass . Even <URL> I know of has a straight leading edge , even though the aircraft would have benefited from de-sweeping . Both the <URL> and the <URL> , which were designed by the same people before , had reduced sweep on the outer wing , and for good reason . When the multinational project started and they talked to the BAe engineers , the British side insisted on a straight leading edge for easier manufacture , ignorant of the fact that using composites made their point moot . Yes , that was practically the same company that had built the Victor before . Another disadvantage is the fact that any sweep change will convert bending moment into torsion , so de-sweeping the outer wing will introduce an uptwisting torsion which can excite wing flutter . If the wing 's aspect ratio is low , this is manageable , but with higher aspect ratios the wing needs to be stiffened . To answer your question directly : In the majority of cases it is aerodynamically advantageous to vary sweep with relative thickness , but it is not structurally and economically efficient . In the delta wings of combat aircraft which need to operate over a wide range of angles of attack , de-sweeping the outer wing produces indeed the best wing planform , even when economics is included .
My guess is that there was some circuitry that was playing up . While I 'm not sure about ' Wing Loops ' specifically , for what I think is a similar example the Airbus A320 series has fire loops in the engines . There are two fire loops . If I 'm right , it 's got little thermal sensors along way , which disrupt the current if they get too hot ( or if the wire is broken ) . Logic gates ensure that both loops must be ' high ' for the fire warning to go off . If one is not working , it works from a single input . Assuming both of these were working from the beginning , I think it throws a warning on the pilot information display if one triggers without setting off the other one . I 'd imagine that maintenance either disabled the faulty loop within those allowed by the Minimum Equipment List or by changing the part . If it was quick , it was probably the first , but they 're not going to go telling passengers that they disabled safety equipment :)
These are wingtip vortices , which also appear in formula one , and <URL> explains the reason quite nicely ( including airplane pictures and going into the difference between them and contrails ) . The significant paragraph : After the formation of the vortex , the pressure inside it decreases significantly as compared to the ambient pressure . This results in a significant drop in dew point ( which was already below the ambient temperature before the formation of the vortex ) but along with it , there is an even greater drop in the vertex core temperature , which transforms the water vapour into water droplets and hence we are able to see the vortices trail coming out of the rear endplates .
The conductive exterior body Almost all aircraft have metal bodies , the electric current flows through the exterior metal . Aircraft with composite hulls can have conducting material added to the composites to provide a path for lightning . This is typically a metal mesh . Some smaller composite aircraft , lacking this sort of provision , simply can not fly near clouds or anywhere where there is a risk of lightning . photo by Boeing - see references The outer conducting surface acts as a <URL> preventing the high voltages and currents from affecting the interior . a Faraday cage photo by <URL> It is estimated that on average , each airplane in the U.S. commercial fleet is struck lightly by lightning more than once each year . Initially , the lightning will attach to an extremity such as the nose or wing tip . The airplane then flies through the lightning flash , which reattaches itself to the fuselage at other locations while the airplane is in the electric " circuit " between the cloud regions of opposite polarity . The current will travel through the conductive exterior skin and structures of the aircraft and exit off some other extremity , such as the tail . Pilots occasionally report temporary flickering of lights or short-lived interference with instruments . Every circuit and piece of equipment that is critical or essential to the safe flight and landing of an aircraft must be verified by the manufacturers to be protected against lightning in accordance with regulations set by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) or a similar authority in the country of the aircraft 's origin . From <URL> Planes are now built to absorb 250,000 amps , whereas the average strike generates 32,000 amps . " It only gets really serious when the radome [ nose cone ] is struck , the only part of the plane 's shell not made of metal , as this is where the radar is located . But nose cones have special lightning conductors for just this reason . " From <URL> The 787 flight test team gathered the unexpected data last month after one of the Dreamliner test aircaft was struck by lightning . Unlike traditional aluminum aircraft where the entire aircraft is conductive , on a composite airplane the charge from a lightning strike would find its way to the conductive parts such as wiring or hinges . In order to avoid the risk of the charge damaging these kinds of parts , Boeing had to add conductive material to the composites in order to provide a pathway for lightning strikes . From <URL> Other references <URL> <URL> <URL>
Flaps change both the camber of a wing as well as its chord line and angle of attack . All the <URL> . You can see the camber line here in a retracted scenario <URL> And here in an extended scenario <URL> As for the why , flaps are generally used to allow you to slow an aircraft down at a give pitch angle . This allows the pilot to pitch the aircraft down without an increase in speed . Generally a pitch down ( given no other things are changed ) will result in an increase in speed . Flaps also change the <URL> of the wing as well as the <URL> <URL> <URL> All of this is a bit of an over generalization as there are <URL> and its worth looking into the different types and how they operate .
If you know the pressure coefficient of the flow , the rest is easy . The equation for the pressure coefficient $ c_p $ is : $ $ c_p = \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } = 1 - \ left ( \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } \ right ) ^ 2 $ $ $ q _ { \ infty } $ is the dynamic pressure and contains air density $ \ rho $ and the flight speed $ v _ { \ infty } $ : $ $ q _ { \ infty } = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v _ { \ infty } ^ 2 $ $ The equation for the local speed , relative to flight speed , is : $ $ \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } = \ sqrt { 1 - \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } } = \ sqrt { 1 - c_p } $ $ Now you need to know the pressure coefficient . At Mach 0.85 the local Mach number of the 747 wing , which has a wing sweep of 37.5 ° , is 0.674 . Since I do not have the airfoil of the 747-400 , I used one from the same family ( BACJ ) , found <URL> . If you are interested , many more can be found in Michael Selig 's <URL> . The plot is from a <URL> calculation of the 2D flow around BACJ at Mach 0.8 , so it needs to be taken with a grain of salt . Note that it shows a stagnation point , and , therefore , Mach = 0 at the leading edge . The leading edge of the 747 wing is swept by 45 ° , so it will only slow the orthogonal speed component to zero . Consequently , the 747 wing has a stagnation line where the lowest speed will still be Mach 0.6 . On the suction side , the airfoil reaches Mach = 1.2 quickly and even Mach 1.3 near the trailing edge . Modern , so called <URL> s can tolerate mildly supersonic speeds on their suction side , and the Boeing 747-400 makes use of them . However , since the wing sweep reduces Mach effects , the top speed will be Mach 1.2 or slightly lower , and the TSFOIL calculation shown here is not exactly correct for flight at Mach 0.85 , but gives a general idea what happens on the wing . To answer the many questions you posted directly : The shape of the airfoil is immensely important . Thicker airfoils need to displace more air , and higher flow speeds are created on both sides . Camber will increase the pressure ( and speed ) difference between both sides . Changing the angle of attack will add a roughly triangular difference , which is highest at the leading edge , to the difference between both sides . Lower side pressure is increased slightly , and upper side suction goes up by a lot at the nose . Good wing designs have a triangular lift distribution over wing span , with the highest lift at the root . Since the displacement effect of the fuselage is added to the flow effects , the highest speeds will be encountered at the wing root . Just look at the pretty pictures ...
Actually , a similar concept was tested by the USAF in the 50s ( like most things in aviation , it seems ) . Under the name of Project Tom Tom , the military was looking into the possibility of coupling a parasite fighter ( an F-84 in this instance ) to a B-36 as a long-distance escort as it flew into the Soviet Union by joining the two aircraft together at the wingtips . Flying as such , the F-84 would actually power down its engines during coupled flight and could receive fuel from the B-36 . However , the aspect with greater relevance to the question is that the B-36 would actually derive an aerodynamic benefit from this arrangment as well . In theory , the combined aircraft would also benefit from having an artificially elongated wing as well , and , while I remember reading last year that this actually did result in superior fuel efficiency for the combined aircraft during cruise , I am at a loss to find that source right now . At any rate , with respect to this question , the B-36 effectively docked with a pair of " wing extensions " ( in this case , a pair of F-84s ) while in flight and derived a benefit in cruise . A video of the concept can be found here : . Also , more reading can be found in this text Flying Aircraft Carriers of the USAF : Wing Tip Coupling by Brian Lockett . Naturally , there were significant downsides to this idea . While the F-84 actually did manage to engage the coupling mechanism on the B-36 on test flights , logging at least a couple hours of continuous , coupled flight , significant stability and safety issues were uncovered during testing that led to the scrapping of the project . As noted in a quote from <URL> : The wing-tip coupling mechanism as developed and flight tested in the Tom-Tom program is not considered satisfactory for tactical use and was barely acceptable for test flying . It appeared that a new difficulty and a now shortcoming were uncovered on virtually every test flight . The extent of rework necessary before the coupling mechanisms as designed were acceptable as flight test articles is covered under the DESIGN section of this report . Similarly , issues with aeroelasticity turned out to be a much larger issue than originally expected ( in part because of the change pitching/heaving forces as well as wing mass distribution and stiffness at the joint ) . I think that Aurora Flight Sciences ran into similar issues when they were <URL> ... the idea was to join multiple vehicles ( that were essentially flying wings ) to create a super-efficient , high-altitude , solar-powered , surveillance aircraft . Due to conflicting requirements on wing structure and aircraft weight , I think that ultimately did n't fly ... but I do n't have any of the details for that . Just what I remember from a presentation I saw many years ago . At any rate , I guess that my answer is : yes , it could . But it is VERY difficult and dangerous to do ( at present ) .
If the aircraft is subject to the ADS-B mandate of Europe , it will not be allowed to operate in European airspace after June 7 , 2020 if it does not have a certified EUROCAE ED-102A ( equivalent to RTCA DO-260B ) compliant ADS-B transmitter . Aircraft with a maximum take-off weight exceeding 5700 kg or maximum operating true airspeed exceeding 250 knots are subject to the mandate . The USA rule is a bit different , as it allows ADS-B on universal access transceivers ( UAT ) below 18 000 ft which is different from the 1090ES technology used in DO-260 . You can do without ADS-B in the USA after January 1 , 2020 , if you never fly higher than 10 000ft MSL ( exceeding 10 000ft MSL is allowed as long as you do n't exceed 2 500ft AGL ) , you do not enter or overfly class C airspace and keep further than 30 NM from class B airspace . If your aircraft is 1090ES ADS-B equipped it must be DO-260B compliant ; if it UAT ADS-B equipped it must be DO-282B compliant . The difference between DO-260A and DO-260B are many small changes . This list is not exhaustive : change in the way position integrity is encoded , addition of barometric pressure setting , new encoding aircraft length / width change in encoding of speed on surface Typically the update from DO-260A to DO-260B requires a firmware update and some configuration changes . However , note that the mandates include more requirements than just the ADS-B protocol version . There are requirements on the integrity of your position source ( GPS ) as well , and the maximum latency in the position transmission chain . In the worst case you are up for a rewiring of the GPS or even installing a new GPS .
You are missing the weight force . The wing should stall first because then it will produce less lift and the weight will make the aircraft pitch down . In attached flow , the lift from wing and tail is <URL> such that the combined resulting force is acting exactly at the longitudinal position of the center of gravity . If the wing stalls , the balance of lift is shifted backwards ( regardless of the tail producing lift or a downforce ) , because now the forward part of the wing-tail-combination will produce proportionally less lift than it did in attached flow . The center of gravity will then be ahead of the resulting lift force and will pull the nose of the aircraft down . A tail stall is bad news for the pilot and should be avoided : A stalled tail will have much less elevator effectivity , reducing the control power available to the pilot A stalled tail at high angle of attack is stalling at maximum lift , so it produced positive lift before . If it stalls , its lift will shrink and make the aircraft pitch up . In a conventional configuration the tail flies in the flow field of the wing . Because the wing 's <URL> , the angle of attack variations at the tail are reduced . This helps to keep the flow at the tail attached over the whole useable angle of attack range of the wing . A tail stall is either caused by a wrong location of the center of gravity ( CG ) or by a very poor transsonic design which causes <URL> when the wing is still doing fine . Very rarely can you stall the tail by a wrong trim setting when a <URL> , or in a <URL> . Some supersonic aircraft compensate for the backward shift of the center of lift in supersonic flow by pumping fuel from forward to rear . If an airplane with such a rear CG location slows down to subsonic speed , it will need to produce proportionally more lift with the tail than with the wing . If it now pitches up ( say , for a tight turn ) it will risk a tail stall . Note that such a configuration is <URL> at subsonic speed . EDIT : Now you define the center of gravity as ahead of the wing , which makes for a very stable configuration . The tail is producing a downforce to compensate the pitch-down action of the wing 's lift . If the wing stalls first , lift will become less than weight and the aircraft will accelerate downwards . Now the angle of attack will increase at both the tail and the wing ; at the tail even for two reasons : The downward acceleration will change the local flow direction to a larger angle of attack , and The diminished downwash from the wing will cause an angle of attack increase of its own at the tail . This effect takes a little longer to manifest itself : The delay is the distance between the quarter points of tail and wing divided by the airspeed . Both effects will quickly create a dominant pitch-down moment for the aircraft because the tail will contribute much less downforce than before the stall , and the diminished pitch-down moment of the wing will become insignificant .
In the light aircraft world there are a few trade-offs to consider . The short version : Single-Engine Pros : Simplicity One engine means fewer controls , a simpler fuel system , simpler vacuum system , simpler electrical system , etc. . Operational cost Only one engine to feed , so you spend less on - fuel &amp; oil per flight . Maintenance cost Only one engine to maintain - One set of spark plugs &amp; cylinders , One engine to overhaul . Single-Engine Cons : No redundancy : You have one engine , if it fails you 're a glider . Singles generally tend to have less spacious cabins than twins . Twin-Engine pros : Redundancy If you lose an engine the other will give you a chance to get to a landing site . Cabin space If you step up beyond " twin trainers " you can get a very nice cabin in a piston twin . Equipment Again , if you step up beyond the " twin trainers " twin-engine planes tend to be " traveling aircraft " , so they often come with nice features like deice/anti-ice equipment . Twin-Engine cons : Operating costs Two engines to feed ( fuel &amp; oil costs double ) . Maintenance costs Two engines mean twice the cylinders , twice the spark plugs , etc. . Complexity The redundancy you can get in a twin comes at a price : Synchronizing the propellers , a more complex fuel system ( crossfeed ) , paralleling alternators , vacuum system failover , etc. . Short and Soft field performance can be lacking . Failure of an engine <URL> . In addition to the operational considerations there are some other practical items to consider : twin-engine aircraft require a multi-engine rating ( which means more training time ) . Twins will also generally be more expensive to purchase/rent ( and may be more difficult to rent when away from home ) , and will likely cost more to insure ( particularly for low-time pilots ) .
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
It has to do with the local speed around the airfoil . In a canard configuration , the forward wing has to produce more lift per area than the main wing in order to have <URL> . This means the suction is more intense , and the pressure on the upper side of the airfoil right behind the leading edge is lower than on the main wing . Also , the angle of attack of the wing is higher , presenting a larger area to the oncoming flow . Large droplets of supercooled water will simply splash on the leading edge and freeze there instantly , causing clear icing . In a conventional aircraft the tail surface will provide very little lift , and in many cases even produces a <URL> . Now the main wing shows lower pressure on the forward part of the airfoil , just where ice collects the most . In the special case where the tailplane is in the wake of the wing , some of the water droplets will have frozen to the wing already and less water will be available to cause tailplane icing . The capacity of air to hold water depends not only on temperature , but also on pressure : The lower the pressure , <URL> . Condensed , super-cooled water , or liquid water hitting a cool surface , will form ice . Now you have both components needed for the explanation . Pitch stability is the explanation for the higher propensity of canard wings to collect ice than conventional tailplanes !
There was one , and it did it to increase directional stability at supersonic speed . I am talking of the <URL> , of course . There were three benefits to this configuration : Improved directional stability . Without the effect of the folded-down wingtips , the XB-70 would had lost all directional stability upwards of Mach 2 . The wingtips folded down to 64.5 ° anhedral ( or is it -64.5 ° dihedral ? ) which effectively made them into ventral fins . <URL> explains how a ventral fin is especially helpful at supersonic speed , because it works in the compressed air below the aircraft . Less shifting of the aerodynamic center . Since the transition to supersonic flight will shift the aerodynamic center back , folding the wing tips down reduces lift in the aft section of the wing , thus reducing the aftward shift . Better capture of the compressed lower wing flow for lift creation , which is called a <URL> . This increases the pressure on the lower side of the wing at high supersonic speed and allows to fly with a reduced angle of attack , thus reducing drag . <URL> XB-70 landing with wingtips straight ( picture <URL> ) <URL> XB-70 in flight with wingtips down ( picture <URL> ) The XB-70 is also one of only a few types where every aircraft ever built had different dihedral : AV-1 , the first prototype , had 0 ° while AV-2 , the second prototype , had 5 ° dihedral over the whole wing to improve yaw and roll stability . Only the dihedral of the outer panels could be adjusted in flight , however . According to <URL> they were the largest moveable aerodynamic device ever used on an airplane . Other cases of variable dihedral were less intentional , though , and there was really no advantage to it : <URL> Like on many Navy aircraft , the wings of the F-4 could be folded for stowage . If the mechanism was not locked , the wings would fold up . The F-4 was even powerful enough to be flyable this way . When only one side folded up , <URL> , however .
First it is beneficial to have an idea how the <URL> . With <URL> , the suction peak on the upper side is already well developed at smaller angles of attack , so the surrounding air will be accelerated towards that low pressure area . Now you need to extend that mental picture to 3D . The inner wing has those flaps deployed and , consequently , a suction peak near the leading edge and low pressure on the whole upper side . This will also suck in air from the side . As a consequence , the flow moving towards the outer wing will see a similar upward acceleration as does the flow streaming towards the inner wing , plus a sideways acceleration . This acceleration increases the local angle of attack at the leading edge of both wing sections . If the outer wing was already close to its stall angle of attack before the flaps were lowered , now the increased angle of attack will push the flow beyond the stall condition . The geometrical angle of attack ( measured as the angle between the flow direction at infinity and the reference length of the airfoil ) did not change . The " real " angle of attack as experienced by the outer wing , however , will produce a flow similar to what would normally only be experienced at a higher geometrical angle of attack . This moves the outer wing into the stall region when the inner wing still works in the linear realm . This can lead to asymmetric stalls which produce a strong and sudden rolling moment , and at low altitude that is the last thing you need while lining up with the runway . Adding <URL> will move the stall angle of attack up a few degrees , and now it will again be the inner wing which stalls first , as it should .
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
Indeed , the aspect ratio is defined as you describe . It is a way to define how slender the wing is for a given wing area , which is the main parameter in determining how to generate enough lift to keep the aircraft aloft . An area is two-dimensional , and a broadly rectangular shape like a wing area is defined by the length and the breadth of it : span and chord . Aspect ratio describes the proportions of span and chord : a short stubby wing , or a long and slender one ? This is one of the main parameters in how much drag the wing creates : a long slender wing minimises one particular form of aerodynamic drag , called induced drag . <URL> <URL> But a wing is a cantilever beam , subjected to aerodynamic lift . The lift forces bend the wing upwards , and the wing structure must produce internal forces that cancel out the aerodynamic lift . In a hollow cantilever beam like a wing , the skin mainly does that : the upper skin resists compression , and the lower skin resists tension . The further away the upper and lower skin are , the lower the stresses . A structural engineer wants to give as much distance between the plates as possible : he wants the wing to be very thick , in order for it to be light in weight . But again aerodynamics puts a limit to this : a very thick wing would create too much form drag , so the structures people are given the maximum distance that the aerodynamics can support . Wing thickness affects aspect ratio in defining the maximum AR that can be achieved . The wing thickness is not part of the induced drag , and does not appear in the definition of the aspect ratio . It is an important defining parameter in wing weight and other forms of drag .
Generally , sweep makes the wing less efficient in creating lift and complicates structural design . Therefore , aircraft designers try to use as little sweep as they can get away with . However , <URL> onset of <URL> and allows jet aircraft to improve their maximum transport performance ( the product of speed and payload ) . <URL> both help to fly faster , but backward sweep is preferred because it makes stalling less dangerous , improves <URL> and allows to make the wing lighter . The shortest take-off distance will be achieved with zero sweep - if it were not for the need to limit compressibility effects , sweep would only be used in tailless aircraft . The main factor for choosing wing sweep is the desired <URL> , and Mach 0.85 has become the de-facto standard . Other factors are : Relative wing thickness : A thicker wing needs more sweep , because thickness adds its own compressibility effects . Maximum local Mach number of the airfoil where recompression is shock-free : So-called <URL> help to reduce sweep , and older designs ( before the A310 ) had generally more sweep because their critical Mach number would had been lower at equal sweep . Regulations have nothing to do with it , only engineering determines the sweep angle . Since the design cruise Mach number is <URL> at Mach 0.85 for long-range airliners , the sweep angle of different aircraft is very similar . Regional jets normally fly a little slower to improve fuel efficiency , and their sweep angle is less than that of their big , long-range cousins .
end question
start question
Will optimising the weight distribution of a commercial flight save fuel ?
For precisely this reason the <URL> had a fuel tank in the horizontal tail . However , the pilots I spoke with ( Pan Am ) did not understand the purpose and insisted that the tank is empty all the time . The A330 and A340 also have a tail fuel tank , and here its fuel level is automatically controlled . <URL> A330 tank arrangement ( picture <URL> ) . Note the trim tank in the horizontal tail . Shifting the c.g. a little back reduces drag slightly ( <URL> , depending on initial c.g. position ) but also static stability . This is no problem when the FCS adds enough stability , but in case of a system failure you should make sure that the rear tank can be emptied soon . Hand flying an aircraft with relaxed static stability <URL> . The A350 did away with this feature because it was felt that the added complexity would outweigh the benefits .
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
Modern military fuel tanks use the same basic technology to seal the tank after a puncture as WW2 aircraft did , which is the use of a laminated rubber-textile material , which tends to retain its form after being torn . The main difference between modern tank liners and WW2 liners is that the modern liners use more sophisticated materials so they can achieve the same benefit using a much thinner liner ( hence less weight ) . Bullets hitting a tank do not cause " detonation " unless they generate a spark and the fuel-air mixture in the tank is in ignition range . Also , most aircraft explosions are not detonations , they are <URL> . The liner does nothing to prevent this . The main functions of the liner are to prevent fuel from leaking out of a punctured tank and to maintain the integrity of the tank in a low-altitude mishap or crash . The main test for a liner is the " drop test " in which the liner is filled with fuel and dropped from a height of about 50 feet . The advantage of pressurizing a tank with air ( inerting ) is that it increases the critical temperature of an explosive mixture . If the critical temperature of the mixture is above the ambient temperature , then the tank will not explode spontaneously when sparked . A modern variation on this is called " nitrogen inerting " . The idea with that is to pressurize the tank with nitrogen . This makes the tank spark proof . Note that inerting technologies do not prevent a fuel tank from blowing up if an aircraft is hit with ordnance . The reason for this is that typically the way an aircraft blows up is that damage from the ordnance starts a fire . The fire then rapidly evolves fuel-laden gases into open compartments of the aircraft . As soon as these gases reach the ignition mixture , the fire deflagarates the mixture , causing an explosion . Inerting does little to prevent this . Inerting is very useful , however , because it can prevent a plane blowing up due to lightning or problems with electrical wiring or static electicity buildup .
It 's not as much boarding as much as standing around does not generate any revenue . Use Your Capital Assets : 25 minutes a day is a lot , and in some cases is equivalent to a domestic leg . Rather than arriving at 23:00 , you could arrive at 22:30 and still squeeze in an additional short flight before midnight . If you 're flying 10 flights a day and you can now fly 11 , you 're doing 10 % more work with the same amount of assets . Estimates for a flight hour of a B737 are ≅ \ $ 3000 - \ $ 3500 in the US , for an aircraft worth perhaps $ 60 million . Fixed Costs : You 're looking at a bit of fixed costs , such as insurance . The more flying time you can squeeze out of the plane , the cheaper each hour will become on average . Less Staff , More Product : You need a certain number of ground staff . If you can cut the time required for an aircraft to be handled by ground staff by 20 % ( 50 → 40 minutes ) , that potentially means that they could handle an additional aircraft in their shift . This principle applies for airline flight crew , as well . It 's a lot cheaper to let the your pilot fly a few hours more than needing to hire another one . Standing around is not always cheap either : Depending on airport cost/fee structure , you may be charged less for the ground time . This is not only standing around ; for instance , Munich airport charges you $ 44 for every 30 minutes of using a ground power unit .
Let 's take a Boeing 737 as a generic example , and spitball some numbers . I 'll make the post community wiki so someone can come along and plug in more accurate numbers . Aluminum has a density of 2.7 g/cm3 ( For our purposes let 's assume the skin alloy is " close enough to pure aluminum " because I 'm too lazy to look up the proper alloy density ) . Plexiglass ( just picking a random variety ) has a density of 1.18 g/cm3 . The aluminum skin on a 737 is about 0.038 inches ( or 0.1 cm ) thick . We know a window on a 737 is thicker than the skin . I could n't find the number but let 's go with 0.25 " ( 0.6 cm ) . If we have a hypothetical one-foot square window ( about 930 cm2 ) , the aluminum skin occupying that area would weigh about 251 grams . The Plexiglass equivalent would weigh about 658 grams ( 407 grams heavier , little more than 2.5 times as heavy ) . Figure there are about 70 side windows on a 737 ( quick count from a photo of a Southwest plane , not including exit door windows ) , so that 's 28,940 grams or about 64 pounds , just for the plexiglass . In addition to the plexiglass there 's also supporting structure that needs to be added around the window to hold it in place , sealants to seal it against the skin , etc. - these add additional weight . I 've no idea what these components weigh , but let 's assume it weighs twice as much as the plexiglass , that 's about 1.5 pounds per window of additional structure , or 105 pounds , bringing the total weight savings to just under 170 pounds . 170 pounds is not a lot of weight ( in passenger terms it 's not even one person ) , but it is that much more cargo you can carry . Also when combined with the fact that you no longer have to maintain the windows ( fix pressure leaks in the seals , replace cracked plexiglass , etc. ) the savings can add up over the life of an airframe . Some more spitballing here ... please feel free to correct my numbers : On the subject of the cost savings : a 737 can carry about 27000 lbs payload , and burns about 5500 lbs of fuel / hour during cruise , and about 3000 lbs for a 15 minute climb . Assuming an average flight of 4 hours you get about 25000 lbs of fuel burnt , or almost 1 per pound of weight . This means that the fuel cost of 170 pounds of weight is about 170 pounds of fuel , which today costs ( at around \ $ 4 / gallon , and 6.5 lbs/gallon ) around \ $ 100 . Note that the cost of fuel varies a lot with location , so this is very approximate . Now multiply this by the typical life of the aircraft - three flights per day , 7 days per week , for 30 years ? That would be over \ $ 3M of savings . And all because your parcels ca n't look out of the window .
This possibility has actually been studied and discussed ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) as a way to save fuel costs , but there are several issues with implementing it today : You need to schedule a number of aircraft all flying the same route at the same time for a significant amount of time If different , competing airlines should participate in one formation then they have to cooperate and be satisfied that no one is at a commercial ( dis ) advantage A lot of work would need to be done on procedures and training ( how does the formation form up , who takes the lead , how/when does the formation leader change , how are emergencies handled , what flight levels are used , what separation is required between formation and non-formation flights etc. ) Autopilots , software and other equipment would need major updates , which in turn requires re-certification All relevant regulations on separation , formation flying and so on would need to be reviewed and changed which in most countries means changing the aviation laws , and changing any law is usually a long , slow process Having said all that , you 'll notice that most of those issues are procedural , not technical . In theory it 's a viable approach , but turning that theory into reality would require a lot of work .
the aircraft I worked on in the army were deadlined whenever 1 % of total aircraft weight was removed , requiring either the part to be reinstalled or a total reweigh prior to next flight . That 's for internal equipment , which will affect the empty CG data . All aircraft lose weight during a trip . Aircraft designed to lose a lot of weight all of a sudden ( C-5 airdrops , B-52 carpet bombing ) have the details and limits calculated during the design . In the case of bombers , the ordinance will be hanging near the wings and will have a specific release order , usually back to front . A tailgate aircraft dropping something will also have very specific procedures based on the weight of the pallet going out the back door . If it 's delivering pizzas the procedure is along the lines of " whenever , dude " . If it 's a tank , it has to be positioned and locked down until the moment of release . The above is very noticeable by the flight crew . If the load stays ( or gets stuck ) on the back ramp , you 're usually done . I used to skydive - 10 people on the back end of a smaller tailgate like a Casa can and do cause the plane to stall . The rules were stay at the front until it 's your turn , then position and exit in a prompt manner . If the buzzer goes , let go NOW . Unlike a cargo plane , jump planes have 12,000 feet to recover from the stall .
According to <URL> ( via <URL> ) , it takes 53 minutes to load 55,800 US gallons with two fuel trucks operating at 35 psi delivery pressure . The total fuel capacity of the 787-8 is 33,340 US gal , so fueling from empty to full should take about 31.6 minutes with two trucks .
<URL> shows the following table for two aircraft ( the large commercial jet the B747-100 , and the military jet the C-5A ) . You can see that if differs quite a lot between the B747 and the C-5 already , so it 's hard to give a definitive answer for all aircraft in general . Also , it depends a lot on how you break down the components , for example , here the Nacelle and Propulsion system are shown seperately , but if you combine the two ( and some others as is done in the dry engine weight , I think ) things could change . The Aerospace Engineering e-Mega Reference points to <URL> as the source for the numbers . Perhaps you could find some information there about what belongs to which group . However for both aircraft , it can be seen that the Wing and the Airframe are significant contributors ( and for the B747 furnishing is also a large part of the weight ) I think they included all the wiring in the Avionics part ( that would make sense to me ) , but still it is a relatively small part of the total weight . <URL>
Firstly , " co-pilot " is not a term that is really used anymore . When people say that they usually mean the First Officer . It 's a bugbear of mine because " co-pilot " implies that there is one real pilot and a half pilot , when the reality is an airliner needs at least two fully qualified pilots to fly it safely ! When it comes to actually flying the plane , the two pilots have designated roles - Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Monitoring ( PM - sometimes this is called Pilot Not Flying ) . Both the Captain and the First Officer share these roles - usually one of them is PF on the outbound leg and the other one is PM on the inbound leg . The PF manipulates the controls to actually fly the plane , whereas the PM handles communications and other required tasks that do n't involve actually flying the plane . The biggest difference between a Captain and a First officer is responsibility . The Captain is the Pilot In Command ( PIC ) , who has ultimate responsibility for everything that happens throughout the flight . There are some practical things that only Captains can do , like flying into some tricky airports , landing in strong crosswinds , and on many aircraft only the Captain can use the steering wheel ( or Tiller ) for taxiing . Historically there was a strong heirarchy - the Captain was the boss and the co-pilot was , you could say , a servant . This posed big problems , because the Captain is not always right . The advent of Crew Resource Management ( CRM ) has brought this down to a much more desirable level - where there is still a heirarchy to ensure decisions are made , but not so much that they are unquestionable . The future of the First Officer role will be one of continuing to recognise that they play an important role in a functioning cockpit , rather than just there to serve the Captain . And hopefully people will stop calling them co-pilots !
I do n't think there will be an ADS-B mandate specifically for drones . Instead I expect ADS-B will be mandated for certain airspaces . The US has taken this approach from the beginning , Australia has a combined airspace &amp; flight rule approach ( IFR in class A , B , C &amp; E airspace ) . The EU so far has based the ADS-B mandate on aircraft weight ( > 5700 kg MTOM ) or speed ( > 250 KTAS ) . That is likely to change in the future . For drones operating outside this ADS-B mandatory airspace , no ADS-B will be necessary . I guess the number of drones inside mandatory airspace will be limited , since there is no efficient way to integrate them into the Air Traffic Control system . However , over time this will likely change . The big problem I see is not so much the limited address space , but the overloading of the 1090MHz frequency that ADS-B will be working on . On the long term I see a need to rethink frequency allocation for surveillance and navigation ( and while we are at it , communication too ) . The limited number of addresses should be dealt with at the same time . With so many investments in the current system , it is going to be very difficult to transition to a new system .
You 're really asking two questions here 1 ) What is the procedure ( ie when are the calculations made ) ? 2 ) Do additional passengers affect the weight ? What is the procedure As soon as check in closes , the numbers for passengers and bags is finalized - nothing else can be added to the plane , otherwise it could potentially run out of fuel . Passengers can be removed , but the captain must be informed in case it affects balance . At this point the captain calculates the required information for weight , fuel , and balance . It 's done shortly after check in closes as there is a limited window in which to add extra fuel etc - remember that the tanker needs to be long clear before the engines can be started and other departure checklists can be run . This is done so early because the pilot needs time to prepare the aircraft for departure , he does n't have time to mess about later on adjusting the numbers , and if he has to re-calculate later it adds a whole extra area where mistakes can be made - especially since later on the pilot is likely to be more distracted . Doing it once is fairly easy , you plug the number of passengers into a set of sums along with temperature and other related factors , and it works fuel load out for you . If you try adding passengers you have to re-calculate this , then work out how much extra to add ... it 's just a whole bunch of extra things that can go wrong . Do extra passengers affect the weight/balance of the aircraft Short answer : yes Take an A319 as an example aircraft : empty , it weighs 40,000 kg , up to a maximum of around 60,000 kg Now I have no idea what you and your family and bags weigh , but let 's produce a range . Please do n't be insulted by the range : the airline are n't judging your weight when deciding if you can board late : they have to have a single rule regardless of whether it 's a skinny teenager travelling alone or a party of 15 obese people You 're an adult , so you presumably weigh anywhere between 50 and 150kg You said children but do n't state an age , so they could be newborns or adults : weight anywhere between 2kg and 150kg I do n't know how many children you have , but for the sake of argument I 'll guess it 's between 2 and 5 ( as you said " children " ) - that 's somewhere between 4 and 750kg So your total weight for a single family is anywhere between 54kg and 900kg . Chances are most families are more like 250-300kg ( a couple of adults at 60-100kg each , and a couple of kids at 20-40kg ) , but airlines have to assume worst case , otherwise their check in staff have the impossible job of deciding who 's too fat to board late . So take that worst-case scenario ( 6 obese people ) and add a 7kg carry-on bag each , that 's nearly 1000kg of weight which the pilot does n't know on the plane . Or over 2 % of the aircraft 's empty weight and nearly 1.5 % of the maximum takeoff weight . This is assuming they have no hold bags . Even if your family only weighs 250kg between you and your bags , that 's still nearly 0.5 % of the aircraft 's empty weight - a not insignificant number . And finally you have to remember that by carrying the extra 0.5 % of weight in people , the aircraft needs some extra fuel . And a bit more fuel to carry that extra fuel , and both of those extra amounts of fuel change the balance of the aircraft . In most " normal " flights you are n't going to make a huge enough difference to balance to cause a crash , or change the fuel requirement enough to cause an issue , but if the aircraft had to divert , you could be the difference between running out of fuel or not , and in some worst-case circumstances a really big family could upset a small aircraft .
what causes a weight-controlled microlight to tumble There seem to be several mechanisms . One is an excessively sharp nose-down control input after entering or approaching a stall . and is it possible to stop it from tumbling once it starts ? Not without an external safety device ( presumably a throwable parachute or something similar ) The tumble mode is a little known mode of departure from controlled flight experienced by weightshift controlled microlight aeroplanes . It has been a very significant factor in fatal accident records , being non-recoverable without the use of external safety devices . The mode consists of a nose-down autorotation at a rate of up to 400 ° / s . The tumble entry mechanism is explained , and advice to operators developed which should prevent tumble entry . Evidence is shown of the nature of the developed tumble -- both modelled and through wind tunnel results , which explain how the autorotation occurs . It is also shown how this theory may be applied during testing of an aircraft to develop a tumble resistant aircraft . See <URL> This seems to be an excellent paper 255-page dissertation which contains far far far more than the average reader of this website could ever want to know about this phenomenon . You should note that this contains stills from the Youtube video in the question . It is therefore directly relevant . If you can find a better analysis I will print out my answer and eat it .
The indicator must be calibrated to read zero when that tank is actually empty of all usable fuel ( in level flight ) . Bouncing is fine as long as they do not bounce when the tank is actually empty . See regs : <URL> <URL>
No real reason other than it keeps people from bugging the flight attendants by asking " how high are we ?? " . It also lets the flight attendants know that the aircraft is at cruise so wo n't be climbing and making the carts harder for them to push around .
None of four airlines I worked for ( two commuters , two Part 121 ) had specific guidance as to the max number of go-arounds . However , as mentioned in the other answers , 2 or 3 was believed to be a good rule . The only time I did multiple go-arounds , all missed approaches , was trying to get into Pullman , WA during a snowstorm in the late 1980s in an SA-227 Metroliner . I tried the VOR approach 3 times . Each time when we got down to the MDA , we did not have the forward visibility to descend further . Each of the 3 times the station personnel saw us pass over , and each time passengers looking out the windows saw the runway below us when we were overhead . That , of course , resulted in our being criticized when we arrived at our alternate by some passengers for not having landed at Pullman . I had explained en route to the alternate the problem with forward visibility , but when you 've disrupted people 's travel plans , they do n't want to listen . I briefly considered the feasibility , when we were over the runway , of entering a tight left turn to see if I could keep the runway in sight , but I rejected that . And , yes , I considered descending below the MDA before catching sight of the runway . That would have been doable as I was very familiar with the airport and knew that the gently rolling fields around the airport topped out well below the MDA . The problem was that with all the snow on the ground and the snow in the air , we could n't determine our altitude above the ground visually until we were actually over the runway . The fields around the airport had no trees , they were wheat fields in season . Even if I had chosen to bust the MDA , I still would have been too high for any kind of a normal landing when I caught sight of the runway end . If getting down was an emergency , we could have done it . It was n't technically legal , but you could go into beta with the props and really drop out of the sky , then as you flared come out of beta . But it was n't an emergency , so we went to our alternate , which was actually our next stop anyway , so all of the passengers were n't unhappy . The advantage of multiple approaches is that conditions might get better while you 're doing them , and you can get in . The disadvantage is that the nervous energy you 're expending is telling . Our SA-227s had no-autopilots , no radar altimeters , and , of course , no GPS . I imagine that these days that airport has one or more GPS approaches that would make landing in those conditions a piece of cake .
This question ( sorry to say ) is sort of moot because : if you have an urgency to land ( e.g. cargo fire ) , you do n't care if you are overweight and you 'd land anyway if you have time to dump fuel , the situation is n't as desperate , and you can easily wait just a bit longer . The large jets ( e.g. Airbus A380 , Boeing 777 ) have a fuel dumping system because , with full fuel , these planes can travel up to 12 hours or more ! That is to say , if you do n't dump fuel , you might have to fly around all day to get down to your normal landing weight . Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 are different : they usually fly 1 ~ 3 hours route , and may stretch to 6 hours on a full tank . So , to begin with , you need less time to burn fuel . Plus , these ( relatively ) small planes can land on shorter runways , which means your airport choice will not be as restricted as with a large jet . Now , as to actually answering your question ... . Flaps and gears have speed restrictions . You can not fly full throttle with these deployed . That being said , if the pilots put the airplane in landing configuration ( full flaps + gear down ) , drag will increase significantly and they will need more thrust to maintain altitude and airspeed . You can technically achieve that with spoilers , but it 's dangerous . Spoilers destroy lift , so what you 're really doing is reducing the effectiveness of your wings and compensate that by flying faster and/or increasing your angle of attack . Then again , if you 're desperate , just land right away ... .
Perhaps the biggest weight reduction in aircraft across the board has been the use of composite materials over aluminum . This extends from <URL> all the way up through airliners like <URL> . In the retro fit game , some older planes have been certified to <URL> . Even small savings matter <URL> LED modules give on average a 40 % weight saving over the incandescent modules they are replacing , which improves fuel economy Glass cockpits and modern computerized avionics tend to weigh less and offer more than their earlier steam gauge counter parts . <URL> The system also provides greater backup capability , weighs less and uses less power than the original design . Another thing that has made a fair dent in take off weight is how fuel efficient engines have gotten . While there is a practical limit to this as engines have gotten more efficient the need to carry fuel has dropped or planes can go farther on the same fuel . In a similar vein as weather planning/predicting has gotten better fuel loads ( <URL> ) may be slightly lighter as they can now be more precisely calculated . <URL> that has <URL> ...
I want to measure a commercial speed for Concorde flights . The answer was given by Andy in his comments providing links to websites that recorded past timetables for Concorde : <URL> and <URL> Timetable schedule must take into account time difference between cities so that a British Airways Concorde flight JFK 12h15 to LHR 21h00 with -5 hours difference will give a 3h45 of commercial flight duration . Surprisingly , to me at least , trade winds did not seem to play a significant role in this measurement because timetable on the reverse route exhibit similar duration . Air France flights follow the same rationale . The measurement indicate a general figure of 3h45 for transatlantic Concorde flights . Next step is determining the kilometre distance . As I want a geographical time-distance I care only about <URL> and do not care about the exact path followed by the flight which would tell about aircraft/pilot/airline performance . I used the <URL> website . My only issue is measuring the performance ( speed ) of the transport system in getting from point A to point B . So I finally have my figure : 5 850 km / 3h45 = 1 560 km/h was the commercial speed of Concorde ( or 969 mph in non international units ) .
Look at the sketch of the recommended gear placement relative to the center of gravity ( cg ) from <URL> : We can calculate the load distribution for both extremes . For simplification we use the same angle of 60 ° for the nose wheel in both cases : Main landing gear 6 ° aft of cg : $ \ frac { \ tan 6 ° } { \ tan 60 ° } $ = 6 % Main landing gear 20 ° aft of cg : $ \ frac { \ tan 20 ° } { \ tan 60 ° } $ = 21 % Add some dynamic loading from the application of wheel brakes . In <URL> it is shown that the horizontal braking force is less than 30 % of the maximum static weight of the aircraft , and applying this knowledge to the nose gear at 60 ° from the cg adds 0.3 $ \ cdot \ cos 60 ° $ = 15 % of the maximum static load of a fully loaded aircraft to the nose gear load . In extreme cases the nose gear would carry almost half of the aircraft mass , but then rotation would be impossible . In case of the Go-229 it was 45 % . <URL> Semi-finished Go-229 V3 ( picture <URL> ) On the other extreme you find nose gears with zero static load which were only intended for taking the braking forces . <URL> Zeppelin Staaken R VI ( picture <URL> )
end question
start question
Why do aircraft ( namely military ) need/use formation lights ?
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
This answer needs some background information . What became the A400M started as the Future Large Aircraft or FLA in 1983 . Airbus was worried what to do with their engineers after work on the <URL> was completed , and the next projects , soon to be called TA9 and TA11 ( TA for Twin Aisle ; they would eventually mature into the A330 and A340 ) , were still far , far away . So the idea of a <URL> follow-up was dreamed up to keep Airbus busy , and the engines for this plane would help <URL> to fund the development of their next engine after the <URL> . Yes , the FLA started life with four turbofans ! However , the European military did not like to have turbofans on something that should have the shortest <URL> requirements possible , and especially their desire for the new transport aircraft to backup under its own power made them to demand turboprops . So in the late Eighties the FLA was converted to turboprops . These were to use the core of the <URL> , so Snecma would be happy with the new configuration . This project went through many ups and downs in the quarter of a century between its start and the first flight of the A400M , and many of the sometimes ugly details should better never be mentioned ...
The answer : High heels ! The <URL> would punch a hole in the aluminium or composite flooring , and a carpet is the lightest way to distribute the loads such that the local pressure from high heels can be tolerated . This is the real reason . From <URL> On the floor of the fuselage also very high localized loads can occur , especially from small-heeled shoes . Therefore floors need a strong upper surface to withstand high local stresses . Other reasons are improved noise absorption and damping of vibrations . Nobody likes it when the floor panels start to resonate when excited by some engine or pump frequency . With composite panels now in widespread use for cabin interiors , manufacturing flaws need to be covered , and carpets serve this purpose well . From <URL> : Because sandwich panel facesheets are very thin , core print-through is common . Further , pinholes can form as phenolic resins outgas during reaction and cure . Therefore , panels visible to passengers typically are surfaced with some type of decorative material to cover surface flaws . Floor panels can be painted or covered with flame-retardant carpet .
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
Has boeing changed their alarm systems post that incident ? The story of <URL> is complicated . It is not clear that a misidentified alarm was the cause of the crash . Update : If you are talking about the cabin altitude warning horn , that was allegedly misidentified as a take-off configuration , then nothing has been changed , at least up to May 2015 ( see : <URL> , bottom of the page 50 ) . " As the aircraft climbed , the pressure inside the cabin gradually decreased . As it passed through an altitude of 12,040 feet ( 3,670 m ) , the cabin altitude warning horn sounded . The warning should have prompted the crew to stop climbing , but it was misidentified by the crew as a take-off configuration warning , which signals that the aircraft is not ready for take-off , and can only sound on the ground . In the next few minutes , several warning lights on the overhead panel in the cockpit illuminated . One or both of the equipment cooling warning lights came on to indicate low airflow through the cooling fans ( a result of the decreased air density ) , accompanied by the master caution light . The passenger oxygen light illuminated when , at an altitude of approximately 18,000 feet ( 5,500 m ) , the oxygen masks in the passenger cabin automatically deployed . " m , Source : <URL> .
First off , there are some light aircraft powered by diesel like the <URL> and the <URL> . It should be noted both come in a 100LL powered version as well . As it stands now the <URL> but has not yet decided/found one . There are also <URL> . But anyway , more to the point , you cant simply put diesel into a regular engine as the ignition system and compression requirements are different . Thus to convert a plane to diesel you need a different engine all together . With that in mind most certifying bodies dont just let you swap airplane engines to any engine you see fit . The engine would need to be certified for the air frame which is a costly proposition . Thus it is sensible and economical to keep the current engines running . There are some efforts like those made by piper and diamond to slowly make diesel aircraft available . As to why 100LL is used , this stems mostly from history . The vast majority of the general aviation fleet both physically and simply in design , stems from the dawn of the jet age . When the lines for the <URL> there was plenty of 100LL to go around , it was for lack of a better term , the logical choice .
Aircraft insurance for personal aircraft is not legally required by any part of the US FARs , nor to my knowledge is it required by any state government , though I 'm only familiar with New York in that regard . ( As you 'll note from the Wikipedia page you linked to , not all states require automobile insurance either , though most do now ... ) Aircraft insurance is most directly comparable to marine insurance . It 's generally required by : Your lender ( if you did n't pay cash ) They want to be sure you have hull coverage so if the plane is damaged they still get paid . Your FBO or Airport Management . As a condition of having a tiedown/hangar most FBOs require some form of liability insurance in case you taxi into a building or another plane . Good old-fashioned common sense . A light piston single is unlikely to take out a building , but if you have an incident costs can rack up fast . Having someone else to step up and pay those big bills is beneficial .
In order to engage the usual arresting gear ( cables ) on an aircraft carrier , it helps to have a <URL> . There are other forms of <URL> that do not require a tail hook . Presumably the main limitations on an aircraft using them are the size , weight , and landing speed of the aircraft . These devices do not seem to be designed for as frequent use as the arresting cables of a carrier . Followup : As I found out on looking into this further , many ( most ? all ? ) present-day land-based fighter jets , not just Navy or Marines jets , have tail hooks as well . However , at least according to <URL> , tail hooks of the types of aircraft used by the US Air Force ( and some other air forces ) are not designed to work with aircraft carrier arresting cables but only with land-based systems ( which suspend the cables higher than the aircraft carrier systems do ) . As mentioned in a comment ( and in the Wikipedia article on " Arresting gear " linked above ) , barrier nets can serve as arresting gear . Various publications ( for example the <URL> , pp. 10 -- 11 , accessed 22-Jan-2015 ) list numerous kinds of gear , including cables designed to engage tail hooks , woven straps designed to be torn by tail hooks ( one-time use only ! ) , nets designed to engage struts , nets designed to engage wings , nets combined with cables , and engineered material arresting systems ( EMAS ) that absorb energy as they are crushed under the wheels of the aircraft . I have not yet found any citations of EMAS being used by military aircraft , but its main limitation of seems to be landing speed rather than aircraft weight or size , as <URL> dated December 12 , 2014 credits these systems with stopping nine aircraft that overran runways in separate incidents , including a Boeing 747 , an MD-11 , and an Airbus A320 .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
Airways simply allow for better management of traffic . Imagine for a moment that everyone had an off-road capable car , if all the drivers were going " GPS Direct " to their destination how would drivers ensure separation ? How would you avoid hitting other cars if there were no roads ? Airways are the aviation solution to this problem : Defined routes between navaids ( VORs , NDBs , and the like ) . Airways can also be defined using " fixes " defined by GPS coordinates which can provide something closer to " GPS Direct " routing while still providing a defined route . Airways also provide a bunch of other benefits , including : Traffic Flow Management Flightplans in Europe are validated by the <URL> and checked for criteria such as direction of airways ( which can change during the day , e.g. one airway being for eastbound traffic only between 1000 UTC and 1400 UTC ) , correct flight level ranges and airways correctly connecting waypoints , such as fixes , VORs or NDBs . The bottleneck in all flight operations is understanding airport capacity ( how many operations/hour ) and sector capacity ( how many aircraft handled per sector/per controller ) . The goal is sometimes to distribute traffic between two sectors , although having the same destination . Below you will find two routings to Düsseldorf - EDDL , one departing from <URL> and one from <URL> ( click on links to see visual representation ) : The routing from EDDP to EDDL is going via WRB - TINSA - ADEMI - INBAX - DOMUX , which is within the boundaries of a sector called <URL> . The routing from EDDT to EDDL is going via PIROL - DENOT - HMM - XAMOD , which is within the boundaries of a sector called <URL> . During peak hours , both sectors are separate and deal with traffic only within their sector , which uses the full capacity of each controller handling the sector . Outside peak hours , the sectors can be combined and worked by one controller . This allows a granular usage of controller resources and airspace . Separation between Traffic From the example above we have seen that there is 2 routing endpoints at Düsseldorf - EDDL for traffic arriving from the North-East and South-East , XAMOD and DOMUX . Both waypoints or fixes are respective STAR or transition entry-points for arrivals into Düsseldorf . By using a standardized routing to and from airports , we can now expect traffic to always arrive via these two points from the east , unless other coordination has been achieved by the ATC units involved . Looking at the reverse routing for both airports , we will see these routes : MEVEL and NUDGO are two of the SID exit waypoints out of Düsseldorf , <URL> and NUDGO being 26nm east of DOMUX , however the relevant fix here is ELBAL , which is one of the fixes on the SID23L from Düsseldorf to NUDGO , <URL> . With something simple as using standardized entry and exit fixes to and from an airport , we have managed to maintain a traffic flow with ensured separation between departing and arriving traffic , something which would not be possible with GPS direct routing or would require constant ATC vectors . Handoffs from ATC Unit to ATC Unit The above examples show different routings and sometimes different sectors handling traffic on these routes . How is traffic handed off to other controllers and where ? A handoff consists of moving the radar track of the aircraft from one controller to another and thereafter instructing the aircraft to change the frequency to the next sector controller . Handoffs are initiated at sector boundaries , at specific fixes , which have been agreed on between different ACC ( Area Control Centers ) or sometimes even within one ACC between single sectors . Since we are already familiar with Düsseldorf airspace , let 's use the below routing from <URL> . From the graphical represenation you will see that traffic from EDDM to EDDL will pass the waypoint ARPEG , which is close to the destination airport . Before reaching the waypoint ARPEG , aircraft will be under control of either the <URL> ( page 5 ) and need to descend towards the destination airport . The next sector for arriving traffic into Düsseldorf via ARPEG would be Paderborn High Sector ( PADH ) . The agreements between HEF/GED and PADH are that arriving traffic to Düsseldorf via ARPEG is to be expected at FL240 level at ARPEG and released after handoff for further descent through PADH , even if the aircraft has not yet crossed the sector boundary and is not in PADH airspace . These coordination waypoints and handoff procedures are documented in Letters of Agreement between or within an ACC . Weather When weather ( wrong-way lows , strong jetstreams , storms , etc ) affects the Direct route , flight dispatchers will pro-actively suggest routes around it . It 's not unusual for NYC-SFO traffic to be routed over Canada or over Kentucky when the Midwest is storming . Exceptions - Free Route Airspace Where airport and air traffic density allows , the use of airways is not mandatory or in some cases , not even expected or provisioned for . One e
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
This <URL> speaks to this somewhat . In modern-day air forces , the paint job will depend on the mission the aircraft is used for . However , with the improvement of radar , visual camouflage is less important than it used to be . Blacked-out aircraft Some aircraft are paint black or nearly black for use in night missions . The F-117 ( shown above ) was painted with a radar-absorbent paint and also primarily flew at night , lessening its probability of detection . Other aircraft , like the special operations <URL> and <URL> are painted very dark grays or blacks to lessen their probability of detection since they are primarily used at night in support of covert missions , often at low level where visual detection is the main threat . Modern Examples : <URL> , <URL> Ground camoflauge Some aircraft are painted to blend in to the ground . Some of these are those designed for low-level attack roles ( like the Tornado pictured above ) , to limit the chance of visual detection by enemy fighters from above since their radar signature is unlikely to be detected so low to the ground . Others , like the now-retired <URL> , may be camouflaged to prevent detection when parked on the ground , as many were dispersed around Sweden , sometimes hidden in forests , to prevent single attacks from taking out many defenses . Many military helicopters are also painted either a patterned or dark green color to blend into forests . Some aircraft have been painted tan to blend into desert environments . Modern Examples : <URL> , <URL> Air camouflage Many air superiority fighters , and a large group of combat aircraft in general are painted in some way to blend into the sky . I have read that the human eye has difficulty picking a gray plane out against the blue sky ( or grayish clouds ) , and most USAF and NATO planes are painted in some form of " Air Superiority Gray " . Additionally , many will have different-colored tops and bottoms to help blend in from above and below . <URL> talks about false cockpits on military jets that contribute to better dogfighting performance . Some aircraft , like the <URL> , may have several different grays and whites painted on it to break the aircraft 's shape up . Modern examples : <URL> , <URL> There may be other aircraft that have unique paint jobs to assist in a specialized mission - a darker color on one area to help with sensors , special coatings to minimize damage from a nuclear flash . Overall , it is not as common as it used to be for aircraft to be green - most US Military aircraft were green in color during the Vietnam War , but as the distance of aerial combat has increased , so have the camouflage schemes . Grays are probably the most common paint jobs now among military aircraft of many countries , with other aircraft having specialized paint jobs for specialized roles .
This possibility has actually been studied and discussed ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) as a way to save fuel costs , but there are several issues with implementing it today : You need to schedule a number of aircraft all flying the same route at the same time for a significant amount of time If different , competing airlines should participate in one formation then they have to cooperate and be satisfied that no one is at a commercial ( dis ) advantage A lot of work would need to be done on procedures and training ( how does the formation form up , who takes the lead , how/when does the formation leader change , how are emergencies handled , what flight levels are used , what separation is required between formation and non-formation flights etc. ) Autopilots , software and other equipment would need major updates , which in turn requires re-certification All relevant regulations on separation , formation flying and so on would need to be reviewed and changed which in most countries means changing the aviation laws , and changing any law is usually a long , slow process Having said all that , you 'll notice that most of those issues are procedural , not technical . In theory it 's a viable approach , but turning that theory into reality would require a lot of work .
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
It 's a holdover from the old days when microphone technology was n't as advanced . The military adopted " dynamic microphones " as the standard , which were less noisy than the alternative " carbon microphones . " Carbon microphones required a DC bias voltage to operate , and the dynamic ones did not . Fast forward to current airplane microphones , which are electric , and still use a bias voltage , so if you plug a military dynamic microphone into a civilian airplane jack , the microphone would burn out from the voltage . So what ? Well , helicopters were originally very military oriented , so they all were wired for dynamic microphones . They used a different jack to avoid accidentally plugging the wrong type of microphone into the wrong type of jack . Even though helicopters are widely used outside of the military now , the standard remains , and many emergency radio equipment ( fire , medical , police , etc ) still uses the dynamic standard .
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
Short Answer : Yes Long Answer : Well , partially ... You see , lift is generated not only at the wings but also at the tail . The aircraft 's tail has an elevator and a rudder ( most single engine planes ) by way of control structures . The pitching motion of the airplane is caused by altering the elevator 's shape . The nose stays where it is ( in the vertical plane ) when the lift at the wings is balanced by that at the tail . However , when the lift at the tail increases the nose starts dropping . Similarly , when the lift at the tail decreases , the nose rises up . You could call the increased downward at the tail ' negative-lift ' . I hope that answered your question . If you are patient enough , try reading <URL> from the Pilot 's Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge . It is the same book I used for my pilot 's license .
The appropriate rules are in <URL> A licensed pilot may not undertake aerobatic flights unless they hold an Aerobatic Rating 40 Hours of Flight Time ( or 120 launches for sailplanes as PIC ) completed after issue of respective license Aerobatic Training course including theoretical knowledge and 5 hours or 20 flights Aerobatics must subsequently be flown in same category aircraft as used for rating No revalidation/renewal requirements Be issued a certificate of satisfactory completion of the instruction for the license endorsement So there is no specific license to be obtained , however there is a specific rating , which is just an endorsement in your logbook . Its not clear from the documents that I 've read that formation flying qualifies as aerobatics . Some other countries do n't consider formation flying an aerobatic operation .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
end question
start question
Do flight recorders have expiration dates ?
Everything will expire one day , including our Sun . Flight recorders are no exception . Older flight recorders used magnetic tapes . They used to work like any other <URL> . At present , <URL> boards are used . These are considered much more reliable than magnetic tapes , because no moving parts are involved like magnetic tapes . Data from both recorders is stored on stacked memory boards inside the crash-survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) . A <URL> : ... is collectively the solid-state memory chips and a hardened metal container filled with specially designed heat insulating material . It is this container that provides the survivability , for it is able to withstand massive crushing loads , intense heat , and exceptionally high G forces , all of which is proven by crash survivability testing . <URL> You can see that the memory boards are inside stainless steel shell , which is designed to withstand the crash . Although there is a limit of writes on solid state memory , after a crash there are no more writes . When the FDRs/CVRs are recovered from a crash scene , there are various methods to retrieve data , depending on the condition of flight recorders . This process can take weeks or months to complete . Further reading : <URL>
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
Aircraft have fixed gears ( when they have gears at all ) ! However in a sense a variable-pitch propeller can be considered analogous to transmission in a car and it was manual in some aircraft . The power transmitted by propeller is , within some reasonable range , proportional to its rotation rate . And so is , again within some reasonable range , the power produced by the engine . So for slow planes a fixed pitch propeller with connected by fixed gear does a decent job . As you open the throttle , the engine speed increases , so does the propeller and that 's exactly what it needs to do to transmit the power . Simpler aircraft have no gears at all and propeller is mounted directly on the engine shaft , higher power engines often have 2:1 reduction gear as the engine rpm would be too high for a propeller . Now at higher speed , the apparent propeller pitch is reduced as the air is already moving , so it would spin faster and faster and eventually too fast for the engine . To counter this , faster propeller-driven aircraft have variable pitch propeller . As speed increases , it is set to higher angle of attack ( coarser ) so it keeps delivering power without increasing rpm . Early variable pitch propellers had manually controlled pitch , but quite quickly constant speed propellers were developed ( many WWII aircraft had them already ) where a weight-on-spring controls the propeller pitch so that constant rpm is maintained . The manually controlled units required a lot of attention and the constant-speed system is rather simple , so manual pitch control was quickly abandoned . And that is kind of equivalent to perfect variable gear transmission . The pilot still has a throttle lever and a propeller pitch lever and selects power and rpm independently . Higher rpm allow higher power , but do n't require it , so landing is usually done with low power , but max rpm so the engine reacts quickly if power is added ( does not need to spin up ) . During cruise some more moderate value is selected ( according to manufacturer recommendation ) to reduce wear of the engine . Turboprop engines always have constant-speed propellers , because in a turbine engine the difference between turbine speed at idle and at full power is not actually that big . Again the rpm limits maximum power , so landing is done with low power , but high rpm and the engine reacts quickly when power is added . Last the turbojet/turbofan engines just turn the turbines and compressors as they need . It 's not much different from the fixed propeller really , though the jet engines now usually have variable guide vanes in the stator ( that are just linked to rpm ) .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
Yes , most military aircraft , including fighter aircraft , are equipped with a " black box " called flight data recorder ( FDR ) / crash survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) / integrated monitoring and recording system ( IMRS ) / deployable flight incident recorder set ( DFIRS ) . Sources <URL> <URL>
There is no switch for the FDR , but there is a circuit breaker and by pulling this you are removing aircraft power from the FDR . However , this does not mean you are necessarily turning it off , as some FDR can be equipped with an internal power supply as a backup to aircraft power . The quote in the question ( bolded emphasis mine ) : You also can not turn off the black box , as it runs throughout the flight , recording every 30 to 60 seconds . is a case of an " expert " or journalist confusing the lack of an on/off switch as an inability to turn something off . As you 'll find many examples of in the media , they do n't always get it right . The circuit breaker may not be a true on/off switch , but pulling it does accomplish de-powering ( assuming no internal power supply ) and thus turning off the FDR .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
In the case of Tatenhill , the field was previously used by the RAF . Evidently the original control tower was <URL> , which explains why there is still a control tower there . But currently it is a private field , where the amount of traffic does n't warrant operating the control tower . <URL> lists a Tatenhill Radio frequency that provides A/G ( air to ground ) service during certain hours . <URL> suggest <URL> . There are many airports in similar situations , that do not operate a control tower ( whether or not they have one ) , or only operate at certain times , when there is not enough traffic for a control tower to be needed . VFR rules give pilots the responsibility to " see and avoid " each other in these areas , and announce their intentions on the appropriate frequencies . Also , see the related questions to the right , especially : <URL>
This is a good question - the comments above answer most of it , but here are some more details : Short answer : yes , they are pretty much standardised . Any modern GA intercom will work with any modern GA radio . Part of the job of the intercom is to tell the radio when to transmit , and to route the correct microphone signal through to it . This is almost always done using a single wire which signals " transmit now " , and a pair of wires for the microphone signal from the headset corresponding to the PTT button that was pushed . On more advanced integrated setups , the signals might be transmitted over a digital bus , but outside of fully integrated setups like the G1000 ( and even then on some models ) , there are always ways to connect standard aircraft radios to the intercom .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
You ask about Jeppesen in the title , but you mention ICAO in the body . Does Jeppesen show top altitude ? Yes . <URL> Top image is FAA chart , bottom is Jeppesen . Both for the LOOP SID . Does ICAO show top altitude ? The ICAO charts are produced by <URL> based on ICAO 's style if they do n't have their own . The FAA has its own format . But the answer is also yes if the top altitude is used . The top altitude was added for the climb-via instruction , which is a recent addition . Not all states ( nations ) follow the climb-via and descend-via system just yet . But those who do , <URL> .
The " master list " of special flight rules areas ( SFRAs ) in the United States is <URL> ) - aptly named " Special Air Traffic Rules " . It contains a list of areas with " Special Air Traffic Rules " , including the requirements for operating in those areas . Charts with SFRAs on them include a notice directing you to FAR 93 ( and often other helpful information about the SFRA ) : <URL> In addition to " Special Air Traffic Rules " some airspace with " special " rules may be defined by " Special Federal Aviation Regulations " ( SFARs ) , found at the beginning of Part 91 . The only one I see in there currently is the Grand Canyon National Park SFAR .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
On the first flight of the day , after every refueling , and if you have flown through precipitation or the plane is left in the rain , you check the fuel for water and to make sure you have the right kind of fuel . Since water is heavier than fuel , if there is just a little bit of water in the fuel it could cause the engine to stop . You ca n't pull over to the side of the road like you can in a car , so you need to immediately deal with the problem . The most likely place for this to occur is on takeoff . If you think fast and switch tanks , you might get lucky and only have water in one tank so you can continue your takeoff . If not , you may need to find a place to land . In 17 years of flying , I have only found water in the fuel once , and it was n't even my airplane . But since it was on Catalina Island , a stopped engine would not have been pretty . The other reason to check the fuel is that airplanes designed for 100LL do not burn Jet Fuel . Jet fuel is denser than 100LL so it will sink to the bottom of the tank . It is straw colored and somewhat greasy so you can tell if you plane has accidentally been filled with it , but you really have to be paying attention . It would be easy to miss if you just topped off . There have been incidents when twin-engine planes have mistakenly been filled with Jet A and have either crashed or had expensive fuel system cleaning required . In this article , <URL> describes his experiences . After the <URL> of a Cessna 421s someone did a <URL> to see how easy it is to identify a combination of Jet A and Avgas . It 's fairly hard using standard pre-flight practices . That 's why many people recommend watching the fuel truck if you have a twin-engine plane or one that prominently says " Turbo " on the side . Many aircraft have rubber bladders to hold the fuel . Most older Cessnas have them . Water can get trapped in the folds of the bladder and get into the engine later when the fuel is sloshed around . Even if the fuel source is free of water , a tank that is not full can have water condense in it . Most autogas has some ethanol in it . Water will dissolve in a gas-ethanol mixture and so a slug of water wo n't get into the engine like it will in an aircraft engine . Contamination is less of an issue and is one that is really hard for a GA pilot to determine . You really ca n't tell if the fuel is contaminated with other petroleum products just by looking at it .
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
I 'm no expert , but I can think of two general reasons : risk of incapacitation , and general physical limitations ( reaction speed , stamina , the ability to maintain concentration for extended periods etc. ) . The age 65 limit only applies to part 121 ATP pilots , by the way ; you can still be a commercial or private pilot for as long as you can keep getting a valid medical . Older people are simply at <URL> and many other medical conditions , and they 're also much more likely to require medication that may not be approved by the FAA or other national authorities . Of course that does n't mean that every older pilot is the same but I guess that the FAA has decided that since the risks increase with age , at some point they become unacceptable . To understand the specific reasons for that decision you would probably need to dig up the original <URL> or transcripts of the public debate/hearings , but I have no idea if that 's possible or not . Then the other aspect is general physical and mental condition . They both deteriorate with age , and the NTSB sometimes <URL> as a potential factor in accidents : On the day of the accident , the pilot had flown several formation sorties . The day was hot , and the formation activities were demanding . The accident flight was relatively long , and the co-owner of the airplane guessed it was about 45 minutes long . Most formation sorties were 30 minutes or less . The accident pilot was in his early 70s and was by far the oldest member of the flight . Due to the pilot 's age , the demanding schedule , and the length of the formation sorties , fatigue could have been a factor , although it could not be conclusively determined . Of course , any discussion like this is a generalization and I 'm sure it 's easy to find individual 70-year old pilots or controllers who are ' sharper ' than younger ones ( after all , experience counts for a lot too ) . But there 's no escaping the overall pattern that older people in general are more prone to medical issues and less physically/mentally capable than younger ones , and at least one US court <URL> that there 's no effective way to determine individual risk so a general rule is not discriminatory : The court also concluded that ExxonMobil had established , through the testimony of several medical experts , that the risk of sudden incapacitation in flight significantly increased with age , and that there are no adequate means of individually testing each pilot to determine whether a pilot was at risk to suffer such an incapacitation .
The two things are completely different and exist for different reasons : Fan and turbine blades are mounted loosely , so they can self-balance . This is because at the very high RPM fans and turbines spin at they are extremely sensitive to imbalance . On the other hand , the self-balancing only works at high RPM . It also requires the blades to be connected at the tips with the " shroud " . Rotors have lead-lag hinges because the rotor spins parallel to the flow so in forward flight the advancing blade meets the air at significantly higher speed than the retreating blade . Propellers spin slower , so they are not as sensitive to imbalance , and they do n't have the shroud , so they ca n't be mounted loosely anyway . They spin perpendicular to the airflow , so all blades meet the air at similar speed and angle of attack , so they do n't need to deal with as big differences in the aerodynamic forces . And they are smaller and more rigid .
Everything will expire one day , including our Sun . Flight recorders are no exception . Older flight recorders used magnetic tapes . They used to work like any other <URL> . At present , <URL> boards are used . These are considered much more reliable than magnetic tapes , because no moving parts are involved like magnetic tapes . Data from both recorders is stored on stacked memory boards inside the crash-survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) . A <URL> : ... is collectively the solid-state memory chips and a hardened metal container filled with specially designed heat insulating material . It is this container that provides the survivability , for it is able to withstand massive crushing loads , intense heat , and exceptionally high G forces , all of which is proven by crash survivability testing . <URL> You can see that the memory boards are inside stainless steel shell , which is designed to withstand the crash . Although there is a limit of writes on solid state memory , after a crash there are no more writes . When the FDRs/CVRs are recovered from a crash scene , there are various methods to retrieve data , depending on the condition of flight recorders . This process can take weeks or months to complete . Further reading : <URL>
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
end question
start question
When may pilots leave the flight deck during flight ?
<URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , each required flight crewmember on flight deck duty must remain at the assigned duty station with seat belt fastened while the aircraft is taking off or landing , and while it is en route . ( b ) A required flight crewmember may leave the assigned duty station - ( 1 ) If the crewmember 's absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation of the aircraft ; ( 2 ) If the crewmember 's absence is in connection with physiological needs ; or ( 3 ) If the crewmember is taking a rest period , and relief is provided - ( i ) In the case of the assigned pilot in command during the en route cruise portion of the flight , by a pilot who holds an airline transport pilot certificate not subject to the limitations in § 61.167 of this chapter and an appropriate type rating , is currently qualified as pilot in command or second in command , and is qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight . A second in command qualified to act as a pilot in command en route need not have completed the following pilot in command requirements : The 6-month recurrent flight training required by § 121.433 ( c ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) ; the operating experience required by § 121.434 ; the takeoffs and landings required by § 121.439 ; the line check required by § 121.440 ; and the 6-month proficiency check or simulator training required by § 121.441 ( a ) ( 1 ) ; and ( ii ) In the case of the assigned second in command , by a pilot qualified to act as second in command of that aircraft during en route operations . However , the relief pilot need not meet the recent experience requirements of § 121.439 ( b ) . tl ; dr : You need at least one pilot at the controls at all times , unless completely necessary to operate the aircraft , or take care of physiological needs .
Speed of a plane is actually measured in a number of different ways , and relative to different things . Here is a summary of the different types : Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) . This is the number shown on the instrument that measures airspeed , and is n't really relative to anything . Rectified Airspeed ( RAS ) or Calibrated Air Speed ( CAS ) This is IAS corrected for known errors in the instrument and the measurement system . True Air Speed This is the speed relative to the air around the aircraft ; usually found by correcting the RAS for pressure and some other errors . Ground Speed This is the speed relative to the ground , or a fixed point on the earth ( ' imaginary grid ) . Its the vector addition of the True Airspeed ( and direction ) plus the wind speed ( and direction ) . In olden days this was estimated from the Airspeed and the wind velocity , or through dead reckoning navigation , but now it is trivially found from GPS or other navigation aids . Planes use different ones of these for different purposes . Measurements relative to the fixed stars are not generally useful until you are in the realm of space travel .
You can find interesting lectures about the refueling <URL> or in the <URL> . When they have children leave the plane , it is probably a company thing ! There are no such rules that all passengers have to deboard a plane during refuel ( with JetA and similar ) . But , as you can see in the Airbus FOPN , there are some requirements that need to be met . Each manufacturer as well as each company probably has its on way of interpreting of the rules and regulations issued by the CAP and the FAA . Summing up , it is basically by the pilots and therefore the company 's discretion what to do with the passengers ( or children ) on board during refueling as long as saftey requirements are met !
According to the tooltips on the Lockheed Martin site , the flight rules are : MVFR - Military VFR ; restricted to military flights MIFR - Military IFR ; restricted to military flights YFR - Initially operated under IFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules ZFR - Initially operated under VFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules There 's very little information on MVFR and MIFR flight plans that I could find , but the FAA 's FSS procedures do include <URL> that are required when receiving a military flight plan ( section 6-4-7 ) . YFR and ZFR are ICAO rules ; the FAA calls combined VFR/IFR flight plans composite flight plans ( see <URL> in the AIM ) and on a US domestic composite flight plan both VFR and IFR should be checked . Interestingly , the Lockheed Martin site does n't allow that .
They <URL> hot compressed air from inside the jet engines , cool it down and pass it into the cabin . There are outlet valves in the fuselage that allow stale air out and which control cabin pressure and air-refresh rates . A few aircraft types , such as the 787 , now use a compressor to take in air from under the aircraft . They do this because it can be more fuel-efficient ( not for any other reason ) . It is arguable whether it creates an additional fire hazard . See also <URL> <URL> <URL>
I typically like to get VFR flight following if I have n't filed a flight plan for longer distance flights . The biggest advantage here is that somebody knows where I am if something should happen . I do n't typically find the chatter too bad , but you do have to be on the ball , especially when handed off from a local airport to an <URL> ( commonly referred to as just " Center " ) frequency . Often on flights out of my airport ( <URL> ) I will get handed off to <URL> , which is relatively busy frequency . Another nice thing is that it gives you some practice talking in busy airspace . You really have to follow the rules and jump in when able . Sometimes they wo n't hear you because you are transmitting over other aircraft that you ca n't hear , so the frequency will appear open . It 'll sound like they are talking to themselves . So here is how I see it : Pros You are talking to somebody and working with other traffic in the airspace You are on a frequency you can broadcast an emergency to . Yes we all know about 121.5 , but you are not guaranteed to get somebody on the other end . ATC knows where you are , and if you fall off the radar and do n't respond , they will initiate a search . If you just file a VFR flight plan they wo n't even start until 30 minutes after your planned arrival , and then they start calling airports and contact numbers , then start a search . They may not know where you fell off your flight plan so the search area is much bigger . They can help route you around active MOAs , TFRs , and other airspace/weather issues that do n't show up well on paper maps . Traffic advisories ( as others pointed out ) Can provide a vector to where you want if you get lost . Do n't need to open a flight plan if you can get following all the way . Good radio practice Cons Flight following is " workload permitting . " They may call up and say at any time , turning your flight back into normal VFR . If you did n't file a flight plan , now you should call up FSS and open one en route , which is more difficult . Requires you to be on-the-ball with your radio transmissions on busier frequencies . If you frequently fly from uncontrolled airspace , this can be intimidating . You may get vectored around a bit , but I usually do n't have that problem . I 've typically contacted the destination airport by 20 miles out and either got clearance or vectors anyway .
There are two primary factors that affect the skin temperature of an aircraft in flight : the air temperature , and the speed of the aircraft . The air temperature where airliners cruise is relatively cold , around <URL> . As a body like an aircraft moves through air , it compresses the air , which causes the air temperature to rise . The maximum temperature rise will be if the air is completely stopped , such as at a leading edge . This is called the <URL> , and the amount that the temperature rises is called the ram rise . Using a <URL> to find the ram rise : $ $ RR = \ frac { V ^ 2 } { 87 ^ 2 } $ $ ... where $ RR$ is in Kelvin , and $ V$ is the true airspeed in knots . Using a typical airliner cruising speed of 500 knots gives a temperature of 33 degrees . This brings the total air temperature to -22 ° C , which is still quite cold . At places other than the leading edge , the temperature rise will be less . This is why <URL> , even being insulated and pressurized . Airliners just do n't fly fast enough to produce a significant amount of heating . On the other hand , the SR-71 could fly at over 1,910 kts , which gives a ram rise of 482 ° C . The air does n't get much colder as you climb to the altitudes where the SR-71 flew , so this gives a total air temperature of over 400 ° C. Speed makes a huge difference .
All Airbus aircraft from the A320 onwards currently do not have an method of disabling lateral or pitch control without the full disconnection of the autopilot . In the case that one of the controls fail , the autopilot will also disconnect . In the case of the autopilot disconnecting fully , Airbus aircraft have an audible " cavalry charge " which sounds for 3 seconds if disconnected normally , and continuously ( until cancelled ) if due to a failure or a non-standard method of disconnecting the autopilot .
Most of the action for ETOPS flights takes place during planning and dispatch stages - the planning for alternate airports , gathering of weather reports for diversion cases etc. . Before ETOPS entry point , the weather reports are updated and checks are made ; after that there are no ' special ' procedures to be followed during a ( normal ETOPS ) flight . From <URL> : 3 - IN-FLIGHT ETOPS PROCEDURES b ) Weather update − after ETOPS Entry Point : The crew should continue to update the weather forecasts and reports for en-route alternates . As for a normal flight , the crew must make every effort to keep themselves informed on the weather at the destination and the destination alternate . c ) Fuel monitoring The procedures normally used as per airline policy is also applicable for ETOPS . This is true even for flights where ETOPS fuel planning is the limiting factor . In case of diversion ( say due to an engine failure ) , the PIC will take a decision like any other flight , though he/she can not fly beyond the nearest suitable airport . One way of looking at this is that the main purpose of ETOPS certification is to improve the robustness and reliability of the design and operator to a level that the ETOPS flight could be conducted like any other normal flight in the ETOPS segment .
The pilots had a clear procedure to follow for an emergency descent , but this procedure was not automated by a machine . ( It 's actually quite complicated because Concorde had no speed brakes . So it requires negotiation with air traffic control for a clear descent path -- not much point in doing an emergency descent if you crash into another aircraft on your way down ) . Concorde was actually fitted with very small windows , so that a powerful air pump would be able to hold a pressure differential against the outflow in the event of one window loss . Hear more from a Concorde pilot at : <URL> There are several diversion airfields on the transatlantic route ; KEF , YQX , and SJF are the most famous .
A EFB is a legal replacement for paper charts and you are not required to carry backup if you are operating as part 91 single engine piston . <URL> is in reference to part 91F ( Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes ) . <URL> is aimed at Part 91 operators , VFR or IFR and states that EFBs can be used in all phases of flight in lieu of paper . A backup data source is suggested , but is not required . Note that this backup can be another electronic device . See <URL> .
Basically everything that consumes power on an aircraft can potentially cause interference , short-circuits , or otherwise jeopardize the safety of flight and therefore must be switchable . Sometimes the switch is in the form a button , otherwise by a fuse . There are several particular reasons that the transponder can be turned off . If the transponder malfunctions , it may cause interruptions to all ATC surveillance in an area . There have been occurrences in the past that due to a fault the transponder it was basically acting as a radar jammer . In one particular incident it took a while before the aircraft that caused it was identified and after requesting the pilot to switch of the transponder , secondary surveillance was restored . Another reason is that when the aircraft is at the gate , the transponder is switched of to reduce the amount of radio transmissions . 100 aircraft on the surface of a large airport can produce a massive Radio Frequency noise , which negatively affect radar systems . When taxiing , radar replies are useful for aircraft identification , hence the transponder is switched on at push-back or engine start . For an example to see how such requirements are worded in aircraft certification regulations , see rbp 's answer . The focus here and in the media1 on the transponder in relation to hijacks is a red herring . If an aircraft is hijacked , there are way more important things to worry about than an active radar transponder . If hijackers turn off the transponder it means that they have access to the cockpit already . 1This answer was written shortly after flight <URL> went missing while en-route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing . Initial speculation focussed on a possible hijack scenario .
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
It took me a little bit to figure out the underlying reason for asking this question and it has to do with logging flight time . For example , in a single pilot operation with an autopilot , the second pilot is not required and therefore can not log the flight time at all even though their company may want them there . The FARs do n't allow the second pilot to log the time . The regulation that governs logging of flight time is 61.51 . 61.51 ( h ) Logging training time . ( 1 ) A person may log training time when that person receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft , flight simulator , or flight training device . ( 2 ) The training time must be logged in a logbook and must : ( i ) Be endorsed in a legible manner by the authorized instructor ; and ( ii ) Include a description of the training given , the length of the training lesson , and the authorized instructor 's signature , certificate number , and certificate expiration date . So the question becomes what training was given during the revenue Part 135 flight and were you an authorized instructor ? The term Authorized Instructor is only found in Part 61 . 61.1 . Authorized instructor means -- ( i ) A person who holds a ground instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.217 , when conducting ground training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her ground instructor certificate ; ( ii ) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.197 , when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her flight instructor certificate ; or ( iii ) A person authorized by the Administrator to provide ground training or flight training under part 61 , 121 , 135 , or 142 of this chapter when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with that authority . Since it is a Part 135 revenue flight I would believe the CFI would have to comply with section 135.338 and 135.340 . 135.340 ( a ) No certificate holder may use a person nor may any person serve as a flight instructor unless -- ( 1 ) That person has satisfactorily completed initial or transition flight instructor training ; and ( 2 ) Within the preceding 24 calendar months , that person satisfactorily conducts instruction under the observation of an FAA inspector , an operator check airman , or an aircrew designated examiner employed by the operator . If the authorized instructor has complied with 135.338 and 135.340 they are also bound to the training program for the 135 company . If that training stipulates you can give dual given during revenue flights than you are more than welcome to do so . If there is no provision in the training program to provide instruction during revenue flight then it should not be done . The best option is to request a legal interpretation on the validity of what you are wanting to do .
At a large airport , all aircraft movements are coordinated by the ATC tower on the ground frequency . Aircraft should never move without authorization from the controller . The tower will issue instructions to aircraft that might look something like this : Taxi to Gate 1 via Alpha , Alpha 1 , Lima 3 , cross runway 24 , hold short Delta . These names correspond to markings on the ground that match up with the airport taxiing maps . By talking with the pilots , the controllers are able to build up a map of where aircraft are . It also helps that they can look out the window and see the aircraft on the ground . At airports without a tower , taxiing is n't much of an issue . There are n't many planes around , and there 's generally only one runway and not many taxiways . Nevertheless , aircraft taxiing when there is no ground controller comply with " see and be seen " by looking outside and turning on aircraft lights . Furthermore , if the aircraft has a radio , it should self-announce its movements on the ground .
Before the turn of the century ( I ca n't believe I 'm using that phrase , as I retired in 1999 ) and especially back when all 3 engine and 4 engine airliners had a flight engineer , the usual career path at many airlines was to hire in as an Flight Engineer , or FE ( two stripes ) , progress to an First Officer , or FO ( three stripes ) , and then become a captain ( four stripes ) . This all began to change , of course , with the advent of large 2-man cockpit aircraft . The change was not without controversy and some pain . For example , at least one initial operator of the 737 ran a 3-man cockpit for a time . The 3rd guy was , as I remember , referred to as the GIB ( guy in back ) . He sat in the jumpseat and read the checklists , which was one of the tasks an FE typically had in 3-man cockpits . As it happened , the two jet carriers I worked for hired pilots into the FO seat and used professional FEs . I spent a couple of years on the 727 and then 10 years on the 747 . During that time , every FE save one that I flew with was ex-military , and with few exceptions all were A&amp;P s . That was desirable in case a maintenance sign off was needed when you were someplace where maintenance was not otherwise available . Occasionally you would encounter an FE who had been a captain . The pilots were required to retire at 60 back then , but FEs were n't . I only knew one such individual , and I always liked flying with him . The more expertise you have in the cockpit , the better . In the two 747 carriers I worked for , an FE would sometimes transition to the FO seat , but that was relatively rare , and the costs were typically the individual 's to bear . Interestingly , when I retired in 1999 , I had flown with an ex-military FE who years later became the chief pilot of the airline involved .
The first airplane with a cabin big enough for walking around was indeed a Sikorsky . This was the <URL> , also sometimes named " Le Grand " , a name which was given to an earlier , two-engined version . Oh , and the cabin included a washroom , too ! <URL> Sikorsky Russky Vityas ( picture <URL> ) It was the first four-engined airplane in the world and the biggest airplane of its time . It flew first on May 10 ( or 13 , depending on the source ) , 1913 . Quote from Wikipedia : After the Russky Vityaz 's first test flights between 10 and 27 May 1913 ( Old Style dates ) , it was established that a passenger could even walk around the cabins without causing any problems to stability . <URL> Early Le Grand version with two engines ( <URL> )
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
It 's not there because it 's like driving with the handbrake on . [ The flight ] was climbing out of Kolkata , however achieved an unusually poor climb rate , was not able to accelerate to normal cruise speeds and leveled off at FL200 after a continuous climb for about 30 minutes ( <URL> ) . And because the flight crew should have run the ' after takeoff ' checklist , which includes checking that the landing gear is up and locked . <URL> ( <URL> ) A typical Airbus A320 checklist . Related : <URL>
end question
start question
How do I compute thrust of a rotor disk and the necessary power to drive it ??
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
<URL> ( Click to view ) You did n't say which 737 variant and which temperature ( outside ? assumed for the engines ? ) . But it does n't matter , for the outside temperature , you actually begin by checking the outside temperature to find out the limiting weight for said runway ( length , elevation , etc. ) . See image above for the 737-800 for one of the flap settings ( follow the arrows ) . For the assumed temperature , it will be the same for the Airbus , there is no formula , you have to use approved software or runway specific charts , see here : <URL>
Shhhhhh , here is the biggest secret of aviation : It 's actually quite easy to become a pilot . You can actually get your private certificate before you are allowed to drive ! <URL> . When most people think of piloting small general aviation aircraft , they are thinking about the <URL> certificate . Part 141 is the most common route for that . The hardest part is being able to pass the FAA physical , but keep in mind that as a private ( or even recreational ) pilot , you do n't need to get a Class I , just a Class III . To become an airline ( ATP ) or military pilot does require a great deal more work and training , but I think that may be beyond the scope of your question . The best advice is to go to the local airfield or FBO and find a flight school . Good luck .
A windmill is a turbine , so it 's better to build an optimized turbine . I 've studied your idea and this draft design has come out : <URL> The apparatus has these innovating characteristics : Configurable for 2 , 3 and 4 engine aircraft Can be positioned exactly for optimal efficiency Adjustable up or sideways for local constraints Bird/snake anti-roasting protection ( removable ) Simple and robust 50 or 60 Hz AC selection by adjusting engine thrust Optional gas water extractor For increased operation time , the apparatus can move with the airplane until a certain speed ( configurable ) is achieved ( cable not included ) .
The amount a wing can flex is actually a product of the material . The wing requires a specified ultimate strength ; with metal , that translates into a given amount of flex . This can be varied within limits , but it is really the material , its stiffness to yield point ratio , and its fatigue properties , that control how much a wing will flex . <URL> is an extremely strong and light material and has lesser stiffness , and has essentially no fatigue problems . This is beneficial to provider a smoother ride in turbulence . The wing acts like a big spring . As <URL> , any material can and will flex ( to a varying degree ) . So flexing is because of the material of the wing more than the wing itself .
The NTSB actually <URL> the use of exterior cameras to the FAA in 2012 . It appears to be <URL> a <URL> , but it looks like you should contact your local FSDO for approval of an <URL> if you 're permanently fixing a camera to a plane . The grey area comes in that if the camera is temporarily attached , you should n't need special approval , but in practicality it could come loose and damage the plane . GoPro says this about affixing their cameras to planes : Industrial strength suction cup . Strong enough to pull dents out of a car door or stay attached to an airplane at 200mph + , proven though not endorsed by GoPro per FAA rules . There 's a <URL> where someone asked the FSDO to sign it off as a Minor Alteration , and it was determined that a short logbook entry would suffice : Temporarily installed a GoPro camera mounted to a standard inspection panel on ( Left/Right ) lower wing in place of the standard inspection panel . There are no electrical connections associated with this installation . This is a minor alteration as it has no appreciable effect on performance , flight characteristics , or other qualities affecting airworthiness ( refer to FAR 1.1 Major Alteration and FAR 21.93 ) . A net weight change of 9 oz is incurred with the temporary installation ; therefore , the weight and balance change is negligible ( refer to AC 43.13 1B , 10-2 ( c ) ) .
From a private pilot 's perspective , there are two possible options : a foreign-based license or a ' full ' FAA pilot 's license . The first type is defined in <URL> , which starts like this : § 61.75 Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license . ( a ) General . A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section . You apply to the FAA and they check with Germany ( or wherever ) that your foreign license is valid . If it is , they 'll issue a foreign-based license " with the appropriate ratings " with no flight or theory test of any kind required . That 's for VFR only ; if you 're instrument rated then you also have to do a theory test as well if you want to fly IFR . That sounds great - and I suppose it is - but there are two big practical concerns . First , any limitations on the foreign license are applied , e.g. if your license is for daytime VFR only then you 're still restricted to that , even if a regular FAA license would allow night VFR . And if your foreign license expires or becomes invalid for any reason , the FAA one does too . Second , you wo n't have been required to learn anything about US regulations or flying practices . So you might not fly safely or legally because you simply do n't know the rules or even what services are available to you as a pilot ( FSS , Flight Following , TRSA etc. ) . One way to handle this is to get some general orientation or introductory training from a US instructor or school , but as a foreigner that will require TSA approval unless you can do it as ground school only ( which is <URL> as " flight training " ) . But you might find - as I did - that some instructors will not work with a foreign student at all until they have TSA approval , whether or not it 's just ground work . The other option is to get a normal , full FAA license . You have to pass the same FAA medical , written and flight tests as US pilots to the same <URL> . You can count your previous flight time towards the required hours but you do need to be able to pass the tests so you will certainly need some instruction . And as a foreigner you will need TSA approval before you can receive any flight training . The big advantage of getting a full license is that it never expires . If you really want to get one and you have the time and money then you could look into spending a month somewhere suitable in the US ( Florida ? Arizona ? ) at a flight school to get it as quickly and cheaply as possible .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
Yes , there is other signals broadcasted by aircraft , although not by all . In the General Aviation sector , at least in Europe , an on-board device known as <URL> is being used mostly in Gliders , Helicopters , Single-Engine Piston aircraft and touring motor gliders . FLARM is an electronic device to selectively alert pilots to potential collisions between aircraft . It is not formally an implementation of ADS-B , as it is optimised for the specific needs of small aircraft such as gliders , not for long-range communication or ATC interaction . You can <URL> and you can also feed the data to sites like flightradar . Related Answers to FLARM : <URL> <URL>
There are several kinds of power reduction which could happen after takeoff : Cutback ( noise reduction when the airplane is very low , after takeoff ) Climb thrust Both are set on the CDU ( Control Display Unit , the screen and keyboard of the FMC , Flight Management Computer ) . Since you describe a temporary and dramatical power decrease , this should be the cutback . When you hear the power increase again , it must be that the setting goes from cutback to climb thrust . In the B737-800 The cutback option on the CDU This is the CDU ( Control Display Unit ) , where you set up the cutback . It is in the second page of TAKEOFF REF . Here is the screen before turning cutback ON . <URL> ACCEL HT : This is the height ( above ground level ) at which we will let the plane accelerate ( we will lower the pitch a little bit and gradually retract flaps ) . EO ACCEL HT : Same as above , but applies when one engine is not running ( Engine Out Accelaration Height ) . This setting will be used in case of engine failure after takeoff . REDUCTION : This is the height at which the thrust setting will go from TOGA to CLIMB . We need maximal thrust during takeoff , because it 's a critical phase and it 's safer . But at the same time , keeping this setting too long decreases the engines lifetime because of the high temperature . It also burns more fuel , it 's noisier and less environment-friendly . That 's the reason why the airplane wo n't climb with maximum thrust . But this question is about cutback . Here is CDU again after turning cutback ON . <URL> CUTBACK N1 : This will be the target N1 setting when the REDUCTION height will be reached . The Auto-throttle together with the EEC will arrange for maintaining this lower shaft speed ( here you can see it 's 84,6 % ) . This will be a lot less noisy but will still provide enough power to climb ! EO ACCEL HT : Same as above REDUCTION : At this height , cutback will happen and CUTBACK N1 will be the engines target N1 speed . RESTORE : This is the height at which cutback is no longer needed , and climb thrust N1 setting will be the new N1 target for the engines ( 92.3 % in this example ) . Takeoff with cutback This is the takeoff roll . IAS indicator is not active yet ( below 45KIAS ) . Ground Speed is currently 35kt . N1 and TO/GA are displayed on the FMA ( Flight Mode Annunciator ) at the top of the PFD ( Primary Flight Display ) . On the right , you can see on the ED ( Engine Display ) that the green marker is indicating TO thrust ( because of TO/GA mode ) . <URL> Few seconds after the rotation . You can see at the bottom of the PFD the radio altimeter indicating 300ft AGL . We have n't reached the REDUCTION height , so the cutback is not active yet . The ED still indicates TO thrust and the green markers are just below 100 % N1 . <URL> Few seconds after reaching REDUCTION height . N1 is active on the FMA . Radio altimeter indicates 960ft AGL , this is above our REDUCTION height , so the cutback should be active and our engines should be a little quieter . A look at the ED and we can see that the green target N1 marker is now indicating 82.6 % N1 . Our engines are still rotating faster than that ( 98 % N1 ) , and the EEC is currently decreasing the fuel flow arriving to the combustion chambers . <URL> We are now reaching 2500ft AGL . This is below the RESTORE height of 3000ft , so the cutback is still active , as shown by the ED . The green target N1 marker is indicating 83.0 % N1 and the current N1 for both engines is also 83.0 % N1 . In 500ft , the N1 target speed should increase again to climb thrust settings . <URL> We 've just reached the RESTORE height ( above 3000ft AGL ) , and we can see the green markers show 92.3 % . We are back to the climb thrust settings and our plane is loud again ! The flaps are still down , and the pink speed marker on the PFD just moved to the top . We are going to retract the flaps and slats , and accelerate to 250KIAS . It seems that RESTORE height is also the ACCELERATION height when cutback mode has been turned on . [ I 'm not sure , could a B737 pilot confirm this ? ] <URL> The flaps are up , our speed is now 250KIAS . <URL> Further readings <URL> <URL>
The simplest equation uses an assumed propeller efficiency $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ and converts power P into thrust T like $ $ T = \ frac { P } { v } \ cdot \ eta _ { Prop } $ $ The tricky thing is to get $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ right . Use 85 % for lightly-loaded * propellers working at their design point . And make sure you subtract the power offtake from the engine for driving the accessories , so you only use the effective power at the propeller , not the rated engine power . The equation only works if the propeller is in motion , so airspeed $ v $ is not zero . For covering the static case , please see <URL> . * The load on a propeller can be expressed by the ratio of thrust to the propeller disc area , made dimensionless by dividing by the dynamic pressure $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . If $ T$ is thrust and $ d $ is the diameter , the dimensionless thrust loading coefficient $ c_T $ is $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 8 } \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Sometimes this is simplified to $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Note that this definition needs the propeller thrust at a specific speed . A different way of expressing the propeller loading , which lends itself to using the easy to measure static thrust , is by dividing thrust by the disc area and the dynamic pressure of the propeller tip at rest , with $ n $ as the RPM of the prop : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n \ cdot \ pi \ cdot d } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } } $ $ and again a simplified form of this can be found in literature : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot d ^ 4 } $ $ Generally , a lightly loaded prop has a big diameter and flies at low to moderate speed . While WW II warbirds are still in the lightly loaded realm , all large turboprops ( C-130 , P-3 ) are firmly outside of it .
In the US , you would use " closed " . From the <URL> : CLOSED RUNWAY − A runway that is unusable for aircraft operations . Only the airport management / military operations office can close a runway And this is part of the example ATIS broadcast from the same document : Left approach in use , Runway Two Five Right closed , advise you have Alfa . I do n't know if ICAO uses a different term , but " closed " is probably going to be clear to most pilots ( and non-pilots , for that matter ) .
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
$ V _ { MO } $ is a " maximum operating speed " . It is one of many " <URL> " defined for an aircraft that limit operation at various flight phases . All V-speeds are <URL> ¹ . The $ V _ { MO } $ is the maximum permitted speed for the aircraft . This includes a safety margin , so pilots can reasonably fly near that speed . Exceeding it is not immediately dangerous , but as it reduces safety margins , is an incident that should be investigated . There is another speed , $ V _ { NE } $ , the " never exceed speed " , which is somewhat higher and which marks the point where things start to get dangerous . When the aircraft exceeds $ V _ { NE } $ , <URL> may develop that will destroy the aircraft and/or important parts may break off as the <URL> becomes higher than what they are designed for . Also these speeds have their <URL> counterparts ² , $ M _ { MO } $ and $ M _ { NE } $ . At high altitude , the same indicated airspeed ( IAS ) corresponds to much higher true air-speed , since indicated airspeed decreases with pressure , while the same Mach number corresponds to slightly lower true air-speed , since speed of sound only depends on temperature . So at high altitudes , the Mach limits are reached first while at low altitudes the IAS limits are . Exceeding the $ M _ { NE } $ has different effect , though also dangerous . Above that speed flow separation occurs above the wing due to supersonic speed of the flow . This leads to loss of lift and significant down-pitching moment ( a.k.a <URL> ) , which aircraft not designed for supersonic flight may not have enough elevator authority to compensate . ¹ The airspeeds are given as <URL> , the speed measured by pitot probes , so they can be directly compared to the indication in cockpit ( aircraft with <URL> ( " glass cockpit " ) usually correct those measurement errors that can be estimated , showing so called <URL> ) . However it may not be just a simple number but may be tabulated depending on other parameters . In particular $ V _ { NE } $ and $ V _ { MO } $ may depend on altitude , because <URL> depends on <URL> and at lower density ( due to lower pressure at altitude ) the same TAS corresponds to lower <URL> / <URL> / <URL> . ² Mach number is true airspeed as fraction of speed of sound . In this case the limiting factor is formation of shockwaves due to the flow speed locally exceeding speed of sound around some parts of the aircraft .
From the <URL> , page 4-41 ( as part of the Missed Approach section ) , there is a quote about what to do when you need to go around when operating beyond the missed approach point : In the event a balked ( rejected ) landing occurs at a position other than the published missed approach point , the pilot should contact ATC as soon as possible to obtain an amended clearance . I have seen several other references in FAA documents which say to " contact ATC as soon as practical " in similar situations , but nothing which specifically says to do it any time that a go around is initiated by the pilot ( i.e. under VFR ) . That being said , if you have received a specific clearance ( for a touch and go ) , and decide that you prefer to do something else ( low approach/go-around ) , you should always receive an amended clearance first . If you know ahead of time , your best option is probably to request the " option " , in which case you have a clearance to do either one . On the other hand , if the reason for the go-around is due to a safety issue then execute the go-around immediately when needed , and follow the above guidance to contact ATC as soon as practical if they do n't call you first . I was taught by my flight instructor to always report it , and the tower certainly needs to know about it in order to provide proper separation with other aircraft operating in the area . If nothing else , it is a " best practice " to ensure that the person in the tower does n't get distracted and not notice that you did n't land .
You do not need to get another student pilot certificate . The endorsement you need is not for student pilots . 70 . To act as PIC of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating : § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 The answer lies in <URL> . Version F is the latest .
Turbofan engines do n't push all air through the combustion chamber . Instead part of it runs along the sides . <URL> This bypass region is where the ( cold ) air stream is redirected from to create the reverse thrust .
The " wop wop " , usually known as blade slap , is heard when the tip of the blade passes through the vortex created by the previous one . It can be avoided . The most common flight regime when this happens is a shallow descent but still with quite a lot of power - e.g. fast and shallow . The vortex starts to move down as soon as it leaves the tip of the blade so in level flight , the following blade passes over it . In a shallow descent with high pitch angle , the following blade can literally " slap " into the previous vortex . The vortices of the two blades now interact and can cause local , transient supersonic flow . To avoid it , simply lower the pitch to establish a more positive descent or pull back on the cyclic to increase disc loading and flatten the attitude . The blade tips do not go supersonic . In fact , in nearly all helicopter designs , the rotor rotates within a very narrow range of speeds , typically between 90 % and 110 % of the normal speed . In most flight regimes , the rotor is rotating at 100 % , + / - a few percent , whether you are climbing , descending or cruising . Only during auto-rotation and aggressive manoeuvring does the range vary by 10 % or more . It depends on the type of helicopter but absolute limits would be something like 85 % ( panic time , risk of complete stall ) and 115 % ( smaller panic , risk of damage to the machine , especially in the tail rotor drive shaft ) . In normal operations , and design aims to achieve this , the rotor tips do not go supersonic since when they do , there is a sudden and large decrease in performance with more power required , higher blade loads , vibration and noise . Think about a helicopter flying forwards . The advancing blade at its most perpendicular position experiences a relative airflow which is equal ( ignoring all kinds of minor side effects ) to the forward speed plus the speed of the blade . The retreating blade is experiencing a relative airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the speed of the helicopter . If the blades rotate so fast that the tips are supersonic , then the main lift generating part of the retreating blade , the outer two thirds of the span , would experience such a low airspeed , for some of the span it will even be negative , that the blades will stall causing a catastrophic roll into that side . It is this phenomenon which ultimately limits the rotational speed of the blades and the maximum speed of the helicopter . Let 's look at the R22 as an example . The following figures are approximate . The rotor tip speed is about 670 fps ( feet per second ) . The speed of sound at ground level on a standard day is about 1100 fps . The R22 is flying at close to VNE , let 's say 100kts which is about 170 fps . The tip on the advancing side , at it 's fastest , is therefore flying relative to the airflow at 840 fps and on the retreating side , at it 's slowest , at 500 fps . The blade length is about 11 feet , so the middle portion of the blade on the retreating side is only flying at 190 fps ( half of 670 minus the airspeed ) . When you get to about 4 feet out from the blade root , it 's now only 50 fps and not much further in from that , becomes zero , then negative . Remember that lift is proportional to the square of the speed . You can now see the huge discrepancy between lift on either side as airspeed increases . To answer your question directly , the R22 would need to fly at 530 fps to approach supersonic tip speed which equates to about 330 kts which it ca n't get anywhere near achieving . PS . The R22 POH speaks in Imperial measures . When I get some time , I 'll redo the figures in metric which I , and most of the world , prefer .
Location Identifiers &amp; Airline Designators data files available with daily updates The perfect solution to feeding your coding database . These files ( more information in right hand column ) are available as a 12 month subscription or a one-time web download . For the subscription , you will be granted access to the password protected extranet site upon purchase where you can retrieve the data files update daily . <URL>
end question
start question
What is the difference between Part 135 and Part 129 ?
I 'm not at all sure what you 're asking , but maybe I can at least point you towards more information . First , the parts you mentioned define operating rules for different flight types ( I 'm simplifying a bit here ) : <URL> : rules for all flights in the US <URL> : rules for flights by a US airline <URL> : rules for flights by a foreign airline in the US <URL> : rules for ' on demand ' ( usually charter ) flights by a US operator Any given flight will operate under one or more of those sets or rules , e.g. a US airline flight from New York to Los Angeles would follow the rules in parts 91 and 121 ; a foreign flight from London to New York would follow parts 91 and 129 ( while in US airspace ) . Individual operators and airlines also have <URL> that are approved by the FAA and that can add more rules for specific situations . And I 'm not entirely sure , but it looks like <URL> effectively applies part 121 to foreign airlines too , by requiring them to comply with the same rules as US airlines : ( c ) Each foreign air carrier shall conform to the practices , procedures , and other requirements prescribed by the Administrator for U.S. air carriers for the areas to be operated in . Without knowing what your mysterious problem was ( and I understand you ca n't share it ) , I do n't think it 's possible to say much more than that . ( By the way , " filing " is something different . Filing a flight plan is required <URL> but they apply to all aircraft , even private flights . If I want to fly a C172 under IFR then I have to file essentially the same flight plan information that an A380 pilot will file . )
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
A monocoque fuselage has its skin holding the skeleton structure together while the semi-monocoque has both the skin and the skeleton holding together . Semi-monocoque also has " stringers " running horizontally down the plane to help hold the frame together . The monocoque fuselage also can not be used for airframes after a certain size ( small aircraft with single engine ) , but the semi-monocoque has been used from single piston engines to commercial airliners . A monocoque design would also have a safety risk involved if the skin was damaged because it is the load-bearing structure . <URL> Image and some text <URL>
The difference is in the minimum control speeds ( $ V _ { mcg } $ and $ V _ { mca } $ ) . In Assumed Temperature takeoff thrust , the pilots are allowed to advance the thrust levers to full rated takeoff thrust . However , in Derated takeoff thrust , the levers should not be increased beyond the fixed decate limit , otherwise a engine failure may result in loss of directional control . From Boeing 737 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : The fixed derate is considered a limitation for takeoff . Takeoff speeds consider ground and in-air minimum control speeds ( VMCG and VMCA ) at the fixed derate level of thrust . Thrust levers should not be advanced beyond the fixed derate limit unless conditions are encountered during the takeoff where additional thrust is needed on both engines , such as windshear . A thrust increase , following an engine failure could result in loss of directional control . The minimum control speeds are calculated based on the full rated takeoff thrust . The rated thrust is lowered in Derated takeoff but not in Assumed Temperature takeoff . Therefore , by calculating the minimum speeds based on a lower engine rating , the pilots can be ensured that sufficient directional control can be maintained on a slippery runway , whereas there is no such guarantee for Assumed Temperature takeoff . On a dry and long runway , there is no operational difference between Assumed Temperature and Derated takeoff . From the Boeing 777 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : Reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway if approved takeoff performance data for a wet runway is used . However , reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) is not permitted for takeoff on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . And : Derated takeoff thrust ( fixed derate ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway and on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . The Boeing 737 FCTM has a nearly identical description . The A330/A340 FCTM explains that the slower $ V _ { mcg } $ / $ V_1 $ can also allow increased MTOW on short runways : When taking off from short or contaminated runways where ASDA [ Accelerate-Stop Distance Available ] is the limiting factor , a reduction in the minimum control speeds may generate a take-off performance benefit and a higher MTOW .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
A Line Replaceable Unit is a piece of hardware that can be exchanged for a replacement part in a relatively short time by only opening and closing fasteners and connectors . You will find the term LRU in avionics but also in ATC hardware . Examples are FMC , transponder , etc. . When you have a complex avionics system you tend to end up with a great variety of LRUs . All these LRU have a very specific function . To be able to quickly replace malfunctioning parts , maintenance needs to keep a large stock of spares for all these LRU 's . The Integrated Modular Avionics concept attempts to reduce the variety of LRU 's by designing the avionics with common components . E.g. one type of power supply , one type of memory unit , one type of processing board and only a few variations of input/output modules . This reduces the number of replacement parts needed to be kept on stock . The LRUs of IMA have more generic functions than in a traditional avionics system .
<URL> is the force or wind generated behind a jet engine , particularly on or before takeoff when high/full power is set , but also when the aircraft is taxiing . When an object moves through air ( or some other medium , e.g. a spoon through nutella ) , air is disturbed . This disturbance or <URL> is known as <URL> . It can also be called <URL> . The difference is that jet blast is only because of engines . Jet wash or prop wash or wake turbulence is because the airplane moves through air . If Mr Kevin Fast runs at say 100 mph doing this ( see picture below ) , you can notice significant wake turbulence , although the engines are off and there is no jet blast .
At the absolute simplest , compared to a two-bladed propeller , a slightly smaller three-bladed propeller can produce more thrust at a given RPM , improving climb performance . Because of the smaller diameter , the propeller tips actually travel slower than the equivalent two-bladed design , reducing noise inside and outside the airplane . Hartzell Propeller has a great <URL> . Their explanation of why more blades produces less noise is pretty good : A 2-blade propeller produces two pressure pulses per revolution , where a 3-blade propeller will produce three smaller pulses per revolution ( for the same amount of total thrust ) which is inherently smoother and therefore quieter . The 3-blade propeller will generally have a smaller diameter than the 2-blade propeller that it replaces , which also reduces the tip speed and noise .
The first turbofan , the <URL> , had just a bypass ratio of 0.25 . It was designed for installation into the wing root of airplanes like the <URL> bomber or the <URL> transport project , so RR strived to keep the diameter small . Of course , back then nobody distinguished low - and high-bypass engines . The <URL> , which powered most of the second generation of jet airliners ( Boeing 707 and DC-8 ) , had a bypass ratio of less than 1.5 . But when the new generation of engines ( <URL> , <URL> ) with bypass ratios of around 5 were developed for the first generation of wide body jets , marketing needed a term to make clear that this was a new generation of engines , and the high-bypass ratio engine category was born . Generally , the threshold is around 5 , but note that some CF-6 versions have bypass ratios as low as 4.24 and still fall into the high bypass ratio category . Therefore , <URL> sets the limit at a bypass ratio of 4 . There is no technical difference between a low - and a high-bypass engine , and the limit is arbitrary . The jump in bypass ratio from 1.5 to 5 brought significant improvements in specific fuel consumption and noise reduction , but part of the technical progress was also from better materials and aerodynamics , which allowed higher compression ratios and turbine entry temperatures . Now , almost 50 years later , we see the first engines with <URL> entering service . Designs are being readied with bypass ratios of 12 , so marketing will need a new word to describe those creations . With " ultra high bypass " already taken by the <URL> crowd , the search is on .
The most common case to pitch down is to speed up , not to reduce altitude , for example when transitioning from a climb ( at climb speed ) to level flight ( accelerating to cruise speed ) . You can transition to level flight by reducing thrust , but that 'll leave you level at climb speed , and is usually not what you want . Changing configuration will usually require pitching changes to maintain stable flight . In particular during the approach-to-landing , extending the flaps will substantially increase the drag , and in order to maintain airspeed , you 'll need to pitch the nose down . If you do n't , you 'll bleed off airspeed and potentially eventually stall unless you overpower the drag with thrust . There are of course unusual circumstances that will require a pitch-down as well , obstacle avoidance for example ( e.g. airplanes ) . As mentioned in the comments , to make a speedy descent you 'll probably also want to pitch down ( such as in case of pressurization problems or fire on board ) .
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
There is no restriction on the number , type of aircraft , or pilots for a " Full 135 Operator . " There are 4 levels of 135 operators : Single-Pilot Operator Single Pilot-in-Command Basic 135 Operator Full 135 Operator * Source : <URL>
I 'm not at all sure what you 're asking , but maybe I can at least point you towards more information . First , the parts you mentioned define operating rules for different flight types ( I 'm simplifying a bit here ) : <URL> : rules for all flights in the US <URL> : rules for flights by a US airline <URL> : rules for flights by a foreign airline in the US <URL> : rules for ' on demand ' ( usually charter ) flights by a US operator Any given flight will operate under one or more of those sets or rules , e.g. a US airline flight from New York to Los Angeles would follow the rules in parts 91 and 121 ; a foreign flight from London to New York would follow parts 91 and 129 ( while in US airspace ) . Individual operators and airlines also have <URL> that are approved by the FAA and that can add more rules for specific situations . And I 'm not entirely sure , but it looks like <URL> effectively applies part 121 to foreign airlines too , by requiring them to comply with the same rules as US airlines : ( c ) Each foreign air carrier shall conform to the practices , procedures , and other requirements prescribed by the Administrator for U.S. air carriers for the areas to be operated in . Without knowing what your mysterious problem was ( and I understand you ca n't share it ) , I do n't think it 's possible to say much more than that . ( By the way , " filing " is something different . Filing a flight plan is required <URL> but they apply to all aircraft , even private flights . If I want to fly a C172 under IFR then I have to file essentially the same flight plan information that an A380 pilot will file . )
From <URL> , there is a list of Air Operator to download . You can choose the format you like and open it in your favourite spreadsheet . How to delimit the file depends on your program and out of scope here .
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
I think you are trying to ask What is the difference between a propeller and a turbo propeller ? A traditional propeller plane is powered by an <URL> engine . These can be in the form of radial , flat , or V style engines with a few other configurations used here and there . On the other hand a turbo prop is a propeller plane that is powered by a <URL> . In this instance the shaft of the turbine is used to drive a propellor . One could think of this as putting a propellor on the front of a jet engine .
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
SAA is a project being undertaken to unify how SUA 's ( and <URL> 's ) are defined , managed , and shared . [ SAA will ] define SUAs and ATCAAs in a consistent manner using an editing tool Use a Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) to distribute that data to interested users Manage the schedule and status of those airspaces through a SOA . SAA is part of the <URL> ( SWIM ) . In short , SAA encompasses SUA , ATCAA , etc. . Source : <URL> ( . ppt file )
For GA aircraft with straight , rectangular wings , the stall usually starts at the root and progresses towards the tip . So , at some point , only a portion of the wing will be stalled . This is sometimes referred to as partial stall , though it is not a common term . <URL> Image from boldmethod.com This is usually achieved by having a washout or a wing cuff . In case of root-first stall , the wing tips are still producing lift , helping to prevent rolling motion ( which may occur if the whole wings stalls at once ) , which in turn prevents the aircraft from entering a spin .
end question
start question
What are pilot position reports ?
Navigation Fixes The words that you are hearing are navigation fixes that are published on the pacific crossing charts . They are used so that aircraft can report their position to Air Traffic Control using a standard , easy to say name that is located at a specific geographic location . You can think of them like street intersections . Instead of saying 29 degrees 44 minutes 18.8 seconds North , 95 degrees 24 minutes 38.5 seconds West ( GPS coordinates ) , you would say the intersection of South Shepherd Drive and West Alabama Street1 . In the case of aviation though , they take it one step further and give it a five letter ( usually ) pronounceable name like the ones that you are hearing on the radio . The navigation fixes that you refer to are standard reporting points located on airways going between the SW coast of the US to/from Hawaii : GALIP and DIALO are on R576 ( outbound airway ) GITLE is on R585 ( inbound airway ) To see an actual chart and to follow along , the FAA offers <URL> on their website ( these would be on the PORC chart ) . Here is a low resolution excerpt from the area that we are talking about : A typical flight will file an airway with only the start and end fixes along with the airway name instead of specifying every fix on the route . For instance , it might look something like which tells ATC that they will fly directly between all of the fixes on the airway : . The filled in triangle at each of these fixes means that it is a mandatory reporting point , and they will be required to make a position report every time that they cross one . Position Reports Position reports are given in a standard format specified in the <URL> : d. Position Report Items : 1 . Position reports should include the following items : ( a ) Identification ; ( b ) Position ; ( c ) Time ; ( d ) Altitude or flight level ( include actual altitude or flight level when operating on a clearance specifying VFR-on-top ) ; ( e ) Type of flight plan ( not required in IFR position reports made directly to ARTCCs or approach control ) ; ( f ) ETA and name of next reporting point ; ( g ) The name only of the next succeeding reporting point along the route of flight ; and ( h ) Pertinent remarks . Example ( from 5-3-1 ) : ( Name ) CENTER , ( aircraft identification ) , ( position ) , ( time ) , ( altitude ) , ( type of flight plan ) , ( ETA and name of next reporting point ) , ( the name of the next succeeding reporting point ) , AND ( remarks ) . Or a better example : Then , when they get to DADIE , they do it all over again : This continues until the aircraft is identified on radar again at which time they can discontinue reporting unless specifically requested by ATC . 1 Mapped <URL> for the curious .
The regulation that springs immediately to mind is FAR 91.17 ( b ) : Except in an emergency , no pilot of a civil aircraft may allow a person who appears to be intoxicated or who demonstrates by manner or physical indications that the individual is under the influence of drugs ( except a medical patient under proper care ) to be carried in that aircraft . i.e. " If you get yourself blind stinking drunk at the airport bar , or you 've been doing lines of cocaine in the airport bathroom you are not getting on the plane because the FAA says I ca n't let you . " For other cases you need to head over to <URL> , which deals with Refusal to transport passengers and property for " air carriers " ( FAR part 121 , and I believe 135 operations are covered by this bit of the US Code ) . The most relevant text is : ( b ) Permissive Refusal . Subject to regulations of the Under Secretary , an air carrier , intrastate air carrier , or foreign air carrier may refuse to transport a passenger or property the carrier decides is , or might be , inimical to safety . Most air carriers vest the captain with the decision-making authority here : If the captain determines that a passenger may be " inimical to safety " they can refuse to fly the passenger . There are some restrictions on that authority - notably that the basis for the decision ca n't be " discriminatory " - which are scattered about in 14CFR ( the FARs ) and 49USC ( Transportation ) , as well as case law . The FAA has issued <URL> discussing this in more detail . For commercial ( or non-commercial ) operations under part 91 I was n't able to find anything specific in 14CFR or 49USC , but in those cases the general consensus seems to be that the PIC has at least the level of authority granted under 49USC44902 - if not broader authority ( i.e. if you 're going on a personal flight you could refuse to take someone along because you do n't like their shoes , and if someone hires you for a commercial flight you could refuse the job if they were acting sketchy ) .
Flight hours are limited to 30 hours in 7 days , 100 hours in a month and 1000 in a year . Scheduling rules also say I need at least 1 day off a week , so 6 day trips are the max for me ( 121 US domestic scheduled ) . Let 's look at a typical trip , which at my company tended to be a 4 day trip . You want good productive trips , but you ca n't always get them . On a 4 day trip let 's say I have 6 hours of flight scheduled each day , or 24 hours scheduled that week . I am getting paid the better of 24 hours or the actual flight time . Now let 's look at my duty day . For a 6 hour day with 4 legs it was not unheard of to have a 12 hour duty day . So now for a 4 day trip , I 'm " at work " 48 hours and being paid for half of that . Now consider that I 'm not going home every night and my trip starts at 6 am on Friday and ends at midnight Monday night -- that totals to 90 hours away from home . How does this compare to a 40 hour work week in an office ? In that case you are on duty 40 hours , getting paid 40 hours ( or salary ) and if you have a 1 hour commute one way , you are spending 50 hours away from home . Back to the flight schedule . A given month will have trips less productive than 24 hours and although you can probably build a 96 hour month if you tried , the average line of flying is typically going to be 75 hours of flying . You can ballpark that will equate to 150 duty hours and 300 hours away from home for the month . Extrapolate that to a year , and you have 900 flight hours , 1800 duty hours and 3600 hours away from home . I would say this represents the average US domestic 121 pilot . Some do more , some do less , but this is pretty typical . What do we do with all of that duty time that is n't flying ? Let 's see : Eating Updating charts Checking the weather Checking the paperwork Coordinating with gate agents , ramp agents , fuel agents to make sure we leave on time Programming the FMS and getting our IFR clearance Preflighting the airplane Postflighting the airplane Doing the weight and balance Sleeping Note , that all of these activities require we are at the airport , in the secure area and we are not being paid . The pay clock starts ( roughly ) when the airplane is buttoned up and the parking brake is released and ends when the parking brake is set and main cabin door opened .
A Fixed Base Operator ( FBO ) is an entity - usually a commercial company - which provides " aviation services " at an airport . One of the main services they provide is fueling , either full service or a self service pump . They do n't all provide both 100LL and JetA , but most do . Larger ones provide other services , such as catering , lavatory service , pre-flight briefing computers and wifi access , ground power units , and tie down or hangar space for parking . Charges vary from place to place , most large FBOs will charge a fee for aircraft parking , but sometimes waive a day or so of that if you purchase fuel . They can often assist in arranging ground transport or hotels as well . Most are open hours like 7AM - 8PM , but that varies as well . Most self-service pumps can be used 24 hours a day . Some have a " crew car " available to borrow for a short trip to get lunch or run an errand , though calling ahead to check on that is important .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
It 's a bad idea to give false information to a controller as a matter of practice . Instead of calling yourself a student when you 're not , it would be better to say you 're unfamiliar with the area or that your English is not perfect . Controllers are almost always accommodating to less-than-proficient pilots and will usually make allowances whenever time and traffic permits . If your English is not good , be sure and use simple , direct phraseology . Read the AIM to become familiar with the common phrases used with ATC . Even something as simple as hearing " radar identified " in Canada instead of the usual U.S. phrase " radar contact " has caused many a native English speaker to reply " say again ? "
" Traffic in position " is a phrase to let the next aircraft inbound to a runway know that another aircraft is in lined up and waiting for departure on that runway . This procedure is used to line an aircraft up on the runway ( usually right after the previous arrival crosses the runway threshold , or previous departure begins their takeoff roll ) , to have them ready to go , when the previous arrival/departure clears the runway . At airports ( in the US ) , without ASDE-X ( a system to track airplanes on the ground ) , the tower controller is n't supposed to clear the next aircraft to land , until they have issued the takeoff clearance to the aircraft holding on the runway . ASDE-X locations can clear aircraft to land , as long as certain conditions in the ASDE-X equipment are working properly .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
Ground based radio navigation ( VOR , VORTAC , LORAN , NDB ) by necessity have ground stations to handle generation , amplification and broadcasting the signals used for navigation . Here is an example of what a VOR station looks like : " Table Rock VOR " by ZabMilenko - Own work . Licensed under CC BY 3.0 via Wikimedia Commons - <URL> Waypoints that represent these stations will have ground facilities underneath them , but they are the minority of waypoints . Most waypoints are defined as a distance along a radial from one of these stations , so there will be no ground station below them . Other waypoints are lat/lon fixes provided by GPS , so there are no stations below them . Keep in mind , no matter if there is a ground station or not below a waypoint , their presence is not important to how navigation is performed . Waypoint passage will be noted by needles , to/from indicators , DME mileage changing , or by a points along a magenta line on a map display . VOR stations are often named by their location e.g. the VORTAC in San Antonio , TX is named " San Antonio ( SAT ) " . Others are named for regional things , e.g. " Ranger ( FUZ ) " , " Cowboy ( CVE ) " and " Maverick ( TTT ) " all located in Dallas , TX named after their major sports teams ( baseball , football and basketball respectively )
It 's the elevator trim control to relieve control forces in pitch . It does this by changing the neutral position of the elevators so that the pilot flying does not need to maintain a constant pressure on the yoke to maintain pitch . On the 747 family , this is achieved by moving the stabiliser . Although <URL> shows a home cockpit yoke , the representation of the controls is accurate :
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
According to the <URL> , The air plane can structurally accommodate pilots or passengers weighing up to 250 lbs . Of course , this is subject to the maximum allowable takeoff weight . The manual also gives the forward and aft cg limits ( in page 30 ) . In case of very light pilots , the aft cg limit may be exceeded and it may be required to carry ballast for bringing the cg within limits .
AOPA has a <URL> about this , and it basically says : Since you failed the oral , more studying is probably in order . You will need to receive training in the area ( s ) of the checkride that you failed from a flight instructor . Once the flight instructor feels that you are proficient and able to pass the checkride , they will sign your logbook so that you may take it again . Schedule your checkride again . If you take it within 60 days , you will only need to test on the areas that you failed . After 60 days you have to take the entire checkride over again . Take your Notice of Disapproval ( 8060-5 ) with you to the checkride ( you did n't burn it did you ?? ) Like the article says , it is n't the end of the world ! About 20 % of first time applicants fail their checkride , but all you have to do is use it as a learning experience and let it make you an even better pilot . If you have questions about specific subjects , you can also ask questions here and we will be happy to help you out !
Generally aircraft windows are made of what we colloquially call " plexiglass " of some kind ( Lexan polycarbonate is common in light General Aviation aircraft , acrylic plastics are also used ) . This material is light , relatively strong ( not shatter-proof , but it 'll take a moderate beating ) and has decent optical properties . Its major drawback is " crazing " -- hairline cracks on the surface of the material that form over time from dirt , stress , temperature , UV exposure , and the like . Bonus answer : The little hole serves a couple of purposes , but the biggie is pressure relief/equalization . <URL> and they 've covered it pretty thoroughly . Basically the hole ensures that the cabin pressure is pushing against the outer ( primary , usually thicker ) sheet of plexiglass , which is plug-wedged into the fuselage structure and ca n't go anywhere . Should the outer pane be damaged the hole will also theoretically bleed cabin pressure off at a controlled rate - though how successful that equalization is would depend on your altitude ( and thus the pressure differential between the cabin and the outside air ) and the degree of damage to the outer pane .
Both are predefined routes through the air which connect the airport areas ( terminal areas ) to the enroute airway system in a way remotely similar to local roads that everyone follows from and to highways . This ensures ( in theory ) an orderly fashion of after departure reaching ( SID ) and leaving towards the airport ( STAR ) the enroute airspaces for all aircraft . SID stands for <URL> . STAR stands for <URL> . The links touch upon everything else .
<URL> The short answer is this is n't something that 's realistically planned for because the chance of a double-failure of the redundant systems in question ( the two pilots ) is pretty unlikely , and many of the conditions that could lead to it would result in a catastrophic loss of the aircraft anyway . ( The most notable exception to that would be a loss of pressurization at altitude , in which case hopefully at least one of the pilots can get their oxygen mask on to make the emergency descent . ) The ATC/Airline system as a whole can theoretically deal with this sort of a double failure in a few different ways . The most common is finding an off-duty employee of the airline who is riding non-revenue ( dead-head , jumpseat , etc. ) to fill the role of an incapacitated crew member . This is of course predicated on whatever incapacitated the flight crew not affecting this other person . If no qualified personnel are available it may be possible to get an experienced instructor on the radio to " talk the plane down " , but that relies on having someone onboard who can ( a ) get access to the cockpit , and ( b ) at least figure out how to operate the radios to ask for help . " Talk-Down Landings " have happened <URL> on several occasions , but <URL> outside of <URL> and similar thought experiments .
Private Pilot Airplane Single-Engine Checkride Requirements Eligibility Requirements ( <URL> ) Be at least 17 years of age for a rating in other than a glider or balloon Be able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language Instructor logbook endorsement certifying your aeronautical knowledge ( <URL> ) and that you are prepared for the written test Passed the written test and can present your original embossed Airman Knowledge Test Report Instructor logbook endorsement certifying your flight proficiency ( <URL> ) and that you are ready for the flight test Log all required aeronautical experience ( below ) Aeronautical Experience ( <URL> ) : 40 hours of flight time ( 35 for 141 schools ) that includes : 20 hours of dual instruction 10 hours of solo flight training 3 hours of cross-country dual 3 hours of night dual ( to get an unrestricted license ) that includes : 1 cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport 3 hours of instrument dual 3 hours of dual in preparation for the practical test within 2 calendar months 10 hours of solo including 5 hours of cross-country time 1 150 NM solo cross country flight , with full-stop landings at three points and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of more than 50 NM between the takeoff and landing locations 3 takeoffs and 3 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport with an operating control tower
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
According to the <URL> you can operate an amphibious airplane on hard-surface runways with a land class rating but need a seaplane class rating to take off or land on water , and vice versa . As far as the regs , it seems that the airplane can simply be considered either land or seaplane class depending on how you are operating it .
It 's not in the Canadian Aviation Regulations , but in the Aeronautics Act which enable the CARs . <URL> , and yes , if you are a pilot , you have to advise any doctor of that fact , and they in turn must advise the " Minister " if there is a possible aviation hazard . Here it is ( " Canadian Aviation Document " means your pilot licence ) : 6.5 ( 1 ) Where a physician or an optometrist believes on reasonable grounds that a patient is a flight crew member , an air traffic controller or other holder of a Canadian aviation document that imposes standards of medical or optometric fitness , the physician or optometrist shall , if in his opinion the patient has a medical or optometric condition that is likely to constitute a hazard to aviation safety , inform a medical adviser designated by the Minister forthwith of that opinion and the reasons therefor . ( 2 ) The holder of a Canadian aviation document that imposes standards of medical or optometric fitness shall , prior to any medical or optometric examination of his person by a physician or optometrist , advise the physician or optometrist that he is the holder of such a document .
end question
start question
Is the pilot required to keep visual lookout during IFR operations in VMC ?
You did n't mention which country or jurisdiction you 're asking about , but in the US <URL> says : When weather conditions permit , regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules , vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft I assume other countries have similar regulations but even if they do n't , it 's still common sense and good piloting to keep a visual lookout whenever possible .
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
The FAA has an <URL> on bird strikes and other wildlife hazards , which includes a ( broken ) link to their Wildlife Hazard Management at Airports - A Manual for Airport Personnel <URL> . Chapter 9 is called " WILDLIFE CONTROL STRATEGIES AND TECHNIQUES AT AIRPORTS " and includes the following techniques : Change flight schedules Modify the birds ' habitat ( food , cover , water ) Physically exclude the animals ( not so easy with birds ) Repel the birds with vehicles , chemicals , sound , visual objects ( flags , scarecrows , fake dead animals , lasers ) Repel the birds with trained falcons or dogs Shoot nonlethal projectiles at the birds Trap , remove and release the birds at a different location Kill the birds with poison or other means The document summarizes the various techniques like this : Habitat modifications to minimize food , cover , and water and physical barriers to exclude wildlife are the foundations of wildlife hazard management programs for airports . In addition , an integrated array of repellent techniques is necessary to disrupt normal behavior and to stress hazardous wildlife that attempt to use the airport . These repellent techniques must be used judiciously and backed by real threats to minimize habituation . To this end , lethal control of selected individuals of common species is sometimes necessary to reinforce repellent actions .
General rule here : the engine will remain at its last power setting should the FADECs lose comms with the flight deck controls ( in your A380 case ) or the thrust lever cables come unhooked ( in the case of an older aircraft with mechanical cable-and-pulley controls ) . However , the fire handle will kill the engine even if the main controls fail -- it operates the firewall fuel and hydraulic shutoff valves . In QF32 , this did n't happen because the cable for the # 1 engine fire handle itself was damaged by shrapnel entering the wing .
I 'm sure someone else will come along and give you a better answer with illustrations and everything , but until then , here goes :) Multi engine aircraft usually have their engines off to either side of the fuselage . This means that if one engine fails , the other engine will produce what 's called asymmetric thrust ( one engine is stronger than the other ) . This in turn , because it 's off to the side of the aircraft will cause it to yaw in the direction of the dead engine . Should the dead engine also have its prop windmilling , it 'll cause more drag than if the prop blades were turned parallel to the wind and thus aggravate the situation by not only not producing thrust but actually acting as a speed brake . To counteract this and continue flying straight you 'd have to apply the aircraft 's rudder . The rudder is an airfoil sticking out into the wind in order to yaw the aircraft , thus if the amount of air flowing over it is reduced , the effectiveness of the rudder is reduced . This has the effect that there 's a minimum airspeed ( i.e. minimum amount of airflow over the rudder ) that 's enough to allow the rudder to counteract the asymmetric thrust as well as some other properties like engine torque . This speed is called $ v _ { mc } $ , or minimum controllable airspeed ( there are actually two of these , one airborne and one on the ground ) . If speed drops below this airspeed , the plane will start to increase the yaw away from the live engine , to the point where eventually the outer wing produces more lift than the inner wing and the aircraft rolls over . That 's the $ v _ { mc } $ roll . Avoiding it is a matter of keeping the airspeed up to maintain rudder authority , and/or reducing thrust to the live engine while regaining airspeed . Further steps , like identifying the failed engine and feathering its prop , as well as flying with a slight bank towards the live engine should be undertaken as well as part of the recovery . Furthermore it 's advisable to never turn into the dead engine , as the live engine will make it harder to stop the turn . Turning into the live engine will make it harder to start the turn , but the engine will help you get out of it . Since the engines usually spin in the same direction , the effect of torque differs , the torque of one engine aggravates the situation , where the torque of the others alleviates it , thus $ v _ { mc } $ is specified as the minimum controllable speed if the latter ( known as the critical engine ) fails and the prop continues to windmill , i.e. the worst possible aerodynamic scenario in the case of a single engine failure barring an uncontained failure causing damage or otherwise changing the aerodynamic properties of the aircraft .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
( This is similar to <URL> - and see <URL> in particular - but there may be some points here that deserve a separate answer . ) First , can you use a Canadian medical instead of a US medical , with a US pilot 's certificate ? The answer is no , with one ( ? ) exception . If it were possible , then people could shop around other countries to find the easiest medical for them , which would be a huge loophole and would allow them to simply ignore the FAA 's medical requirements . As a general statement , the country of your pilot 's certificate and medical certificate must be the same . The only exception I 'm aware of is when you hold a foreign license and medical , and then ask the FAA to issue a foreign-based private certificate under <URL> . See <URL> for more information but basically , you would have to hold a Canadian pilot 's license and medical first , and even then you would be limited by the privileges of the Canadian license . Second , could you get a US commercial certificate using a Canadian medical ? Yes , but only in a very roundabout way , and even then you could n't use it . You 'd first have to get an FAA foreign-based private certificate as I described above - which means getting a Canadian license first - and that certificate would be fine to use for a US commercial checkride . However , after passing the checkride you 'd still need an FAA second-class medical to actually exercise your new commercial privileges . Finally , another option would be to get a Canadian commercial license and medical , and then fly only Canadian aircraft in the US . I have no idea how practical that is because most countries do n't allow <URL> , but maybe there 's some way to make it work . AFAIK diabetes is only disqualifying if you 're insulin-dependent ; if you 're on oral meds you may still be able to get a Special Issuance for it . If you have any doubts about your personal situation then I 'd suggest consulting an AME and/or calling AOPA , if you 're a member .
The regulatory bodies are <URL> in defining a regulation for that . Because there are first officers who do not hold an <URL> . The airlines would need to add an extra flight member for that rare situation . Instead , it 's up to each airline 's SOP when it comes to <URL> . There are various assertiveness training models , <URL> are PACE , and CUS . Probe-Alert-Challenge-Emergency Concerned-Uncomfortable-Safety Facing battery depletion following an electrical failure , here 's <URL> for what the last step of PACE could have been like on <URL> : Captain , if you do n't immediately reverse course and get back to night VFR conditions , I must take over control of the airplane . I can not allow you to subject the passengers to such an unnecessary and high risk of certain death . Under these conditions , it is my duty and responsibility to relieve you of your command . Or , it can be much shorter when there 's no time , such as yelling , " I have control , " and pressing the TO/GA to initiate a go-around , for example . Some airlines <URL> , i.e. , " I 've mentioned my concern once , this will be the second and final time , <URL> . "
In the ICAO PANS ATM ( Doc 4444 ) ( * ) the vertical separation is specified as : 5.3.2 Vertical separation minimum The vertical separation minimum ( VSM ) shall be : a ) a nominal 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 290 and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level , except as provided for in b ) below ; and b ) within designated airspace , subject to a regional air navigation agreement : a nominal > 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 410 or a higher level where so prescribed for use under > specified conditions , and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level . The minimum horizontal separation mimumum is for flights under radar control : 8.7.3 Separation minima based on ATS surveillance systems 8.7.3.1 Unless otherwise prescribed in accordance with 8.7.3.2 , 8.7.3.3 or 8.7.3.4 , or chapter 6 ( with respect to independent and dependent parallel approaches ) , the horizontal separation minimum based on radar and/or ADS-B and/or MLAT systems shall be 9.3 km ( 5.0 NM ) . The approach and departure phases of flight has some small deviations , e.g. small aircraft behind heavy aircraft have to keep horizontal separation because of wake vortexes . ( * ) Unfortunately I could n't find the official Doc 4444 on the ICAO website .
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
It 's for diabetes and kidney disease . You can read the AME guidance <URL> : Item 57 . Urine Test Glycosuria or proteinuria is cause for deferral of medical certificate issuance until additional studies determine the status of the endocrine and/or urinary systems . If the glycosuria has been determined not to be due to carbohydrate intolerance , the Examiner may issue the certificate . Trace or 1 + proteinuria in the absence of a history of renal disease is not cause for denial . <URL> is an indication of diabetes , and <URL> is an indication of kidney disease ( among dozens of other things , if Wikipedia is to be believed ) . And the AME can do other tests too , if he thinks they 're necessary : The Examiner may request additional urinary tests when they are indicated by history or examination . The regulatory reference ( per the AME guide ) is <URL> for a first-class medical , but exactly the same regulation is there for second - and third-class too .
No . The regulations that apply to a student pilot do not apply to the private pilot working on a new category or class rating . § 61.81 Applicability . This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of student pilot certificates , the conditions under which those certificates are necessary , and the general operating rules and limitations for the holders of those certificates . The required endorsements for a private pilot working on a new category or class rating are also different . Student pilots are required to have endorsements for pre-solo flight training , a solo endorsement each 90 days and an endorsement for each cross country . The student pilot must also abide by all the limitations placed on those endorsements by the recommending instructor . A private / commercial / ATP pilot working on a new category or class rating is required to have one endorsement . Again , any limitations placed on the endorsement by the recommending instructor must be followed . To act as pilot in command of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 Required endorsements for FAA certificated pilots are found in <URL> .
The basic problem is that no matter how the aircraft 's fuel tanks are designed , if there is an air gap in the tank , then there is an attitude and/or a g-loading that puts that air gap over the inlet to the fuel line running to the engine . There are a lot of solutions to this problem . The first is exactly as you say ; do n't sustain any maneuver that starves the fuel pump ( and by extension the engine ) for a longer period than you have fuel in the lines to feed the engine . You can actually do a lot without the fuel system seeing a single hiccup in supply ; the fuel tanks are designed to feed while under positive G-load ( otherwise you could n't get any fuel to the engine just sitting on the tarmac ) , so hard turns , rolls , loops etc that keep a force on the aircraft and its contents acting downward towards the floor of the cockpit will keep the fuel flowing into the engine . Spins and high negative-G maneuvers tend to be the things that starve the engine ; if the tanks are in the wings , a hard spin , snap roll or zero-g parabola will push the fuel out away from the inlets at the wing roots . Most fuel systems except on the lightest aircraft have at least two fuel pumps per engine ; one electric pump on the tank side to shove fuel into the line , and one crankshaft-powered pump that draws fuel out of the lines into the carb chamber or other fuel delivery system . The checklist often involves turning on the electric fuel pumps just before startup to prime the fuel lines , then turning them off once the engine is running smoothly , but you can keep the electric pump on if you plan on really twerking the aircraft in flight . The line between these two pumps actually holds a fair amount of fuel , plenty for a minute or more of sustained operation with the inlet at the tank totally starved , and coupled with a bleed valve on the engine side to release any air that 's entered the line , the two pumps running together can usually keep an uninterrupted flow of fuel into the engine by having the electric pump shove fuel down the line as fast as it can whenever the inlet is under the liquid level . For mild aerobatic maneuvers , a " flop tube " is put into the fuel tank . This is simply a flexible hose with a weight , that keeps the hose under the liquid level , no matter what forces are acting to move the mass of liquid around in the tank . This is a simple and very effective way to keep fuel flowing to the engine while the aircraft is under load in any direction , but because the flop tube requires a significant volume of fuel to sink underneath and draw from , flop tubes can increase the " unusable fuel " capacity of the aircraft ( fuel that exists in the tank , but the fuel system ca n't draw out in some normal circumstance ) . However , there 's a tradeoff ; the heavier the weight on the end of the flop tube , the more reliably it will stay under the fuel level regardless of attitude , but the more force with which it will impact the sides of the tank in violent maneuvers ( and padding the weight further increases unusable fuel ) . For the real aerobatic nuts , though , the maneuvers are so violent and so long that even a flop tube , redundant fuel pumps and bleed valves might get starved as the fuel sloshes and churns and there is n't a real " liquid level " to draw from . Many of these aircraft go one step further ; a bladder-style fuel container . Within the fuel tank is a flexible polymer vessel that actually holds the fuel ( typically in either wingtip tanks or a fuselage tank ; it 's usually impractical to try this with in-wing tanks ) . This bladder keeps the liquid and gas in the tank shell separate as the tank empties , and may also keep the fuel under some static pressure . If there 's no air to draw into the fuel lines , then no matter how the aircraft is oriented or how many Gs it 's pulling in any direction , the fuel lines ca n't be starved . Of course , the fuel lines are only one consideration . Most " normal " - rated aircraft have float-type carburetors , which hold a reservoir of fuel with another air gap , and the fuel level in the reservoir is controlled by a float that opens the inlet from the fuel pump ( this system also deals with small hiccups in the fuel flow from the tanks ; the air just forms part of the air gap and the float keeps the inlet open until fuel flows in to raise the level ) . This type of carb will starve the engine during any maneuvers involving less than 1g of force acting towards the " floor " of the float chamber , as the float will keep the inlet closed and the reservoir will starve the fuel feed tube that allows fuel to dribble into the throttle body at the throat . For aerobatics , either a diaphragm-chamber carb ( which has a flexible wall on one side of the reservoir chamber that is connected to the fuel inlet ) or a fuel injection system must be used to avoid dependence on gravity to get fuel into the engine . The downside of these systems are increased complexity , and in the case of the diaphragm-chamber carb , intolerance of air this far along t
You 'll be on a flight plan . You 'll have to clear customs at a designated airport and file the appropriate paperwork . More info here : <URL> If you notify the border agency it will make recommendations if they think your flight poses a risk . There is only screening at Gatwick and Heathrow . <URL>
At larger airports it is fairly common to have more than one tower , but it all comes down to how well the tower controllers can see airplanes . Sometimes they have different towers for ground control frequencies and tower control frequencies , and the position of the tower is optimized for the appropriate task . For very large airports , they may need towers in different areas of the airport to properly see airplanes at each runway . As far as practical consequences it does n't matter much whether they have one or more towers . At very busy airports they split up the tower/ground controllers/frequencies because one person can only control so many airplanes at a time . For instance , there may be one controller for the North runway and one for the South runway . In this case , there could be only one ground controller , or there may be two or even more , depending on the complexity of the ground operations . With multiple ground frequencies , if you need to taxi from one controlled area to another , the controller that you are talking to will tell you to hold short of a particular point and contact ground on the other frequency . Once you contact the second controller , they will clear you to continue taxiing . In short , it is very specific to the local conditions , and they do what they have to in order to properly control the traffic .
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
For commercial flights , the USSR had a " Political Officer " ( KGB agent ) on the plane in much the same role as Air Marshals today , just the other direction - they kept the pilots from hijacking the aircraft . The system would have also insured that the flight crew 's family were safely at home in Mother Russia when the pilot was abroad . Military aircraft were kept at home by the simple method of small fuel tanks . The MIG-19 was once described as a plane that " goes nowhere , and does nothing , very quickly " . Sure , they had decent range with external tanks , but a good number of Soviet-era fighters could realistically declare a fuel emergency right after takeoff .
The 10 hours of rest need to be uninterrupted , planned , and not spent on call . Essentially , the pilots need to have 10 hours in which they are not obligated to do any work for the company at all . Note that it does not mean " 10 hours of sleep " , and it is up to the pilot what they do with their time off . ( They can even technically fly for another 135 operator during that time , but they run the risk of being " careless and reckless " if they are n't well rested . ) NATA has <URL> that 's pretty interesting and relatively recent ( 2011 ) . Their paraphrase of the FAA 's varying interpretations is this : the FAA has said that for a " rest period " to be legal it must be : 1 ) continuous , 2 ) determined prospectively ( i.e. known in advance ) and 3 ) free from all restraint from the certificate holder , including freedom from work or freedom from the present responsibility for work should the occasion arise . Being on call is specifically mentioned as not rest . This is an interpretation that is repeated throughout a lot of articles and forum discussions . It 's also often pointed out that many ( most ? ) 135 carriers blatantly ignore these rules , as most charter operations require pilots to be on call . For example You arrive at 19:00 , and are done with paperwork / postflight / etc by 19:30 and leave the airport . The moment that you leave the airport is the beginning of your rest period ; it will need to last 10 uninterrupted hours , which means until at least 0530 the next morning ( 1930 to 0530 ) to mean anything . If you get a call from dispatch at 21:00 telling you about a flight that might take place in the morning and that you must be available for a call at 05:00 just in case - your rest ends at 05:00 . Because your rest period ended 30 minutes early ( when you were required to be available ) , you did not get the 10 hours of rest and ca n't take a flight without violating 135.267 ( d ) . Another caveat : There are no explicit limits on duty time ( the exception being 135.267 ( c ) involving a " regularly assigned duty period of no more than 14 hours " which does n't apply to most 135 operators ) . The limit is on planned flying conducted under 135 . As long as you plan on parking the airplane when you can show 10 hours of rest in the previous 24 hours ( which is why some people incorrectly assume that you are limited to 14 hours of duty : 24 - 10 = 14 ! ) , you can be kept on duty afterwards . You can even fly under Part 91 for the company . You can clean the airplane , or do office work . While none of that is rest and it is still duty , it is legal unless you get in the airplane to fly under Part 135 without getting the required rest .
There are a few stages where ice prevention or mitigation is relevant . <URL> Very broadly speaking De-Icing activated when airframe ice is noticed . Anti-Ice is activated when a Pilot believes they may enter icing conditions . Ground based De-Ice is applied when icing conditions prevail in the area . Before Takeoff Most , if not all commercial airports offer de-ice facilities if geographically relevant . After the crash of <URL> the FAA took a bit of a harder stance on De-Ice and now stresses the need for mobile De-Ice units to allow planes to be De-Iced without leaving the taxi queue as well as permanent stations as they have always had . A lot of their suggestions are covered in <URL> as well as <URL> . In this case both airline procedure and FAA regulations will dictate the need for De-Ice . Strictly speaking according to <URL> a dispatcher can hold an aircraft if they feel it is not correctly De-Iced . However by the same law a pilot can hold their own departure for the same reason . En Route Once in the air there are a few ways things happen , but generally its ultimately up to the pilot to activate the De-Ice system . On one hand the aircraft POH will more than likely have guidance on when to do this , however , airlines may implement further ( and more strict ) procedures . Some aircraft are equipped with systems that automatically activate in the presence of ice build up . Once in route there are <URL> , Anti Ice : prevents the build up of ice in the first place , heated leading edges etc. . These are activated before entering icing conditions . De-Ice systems : like boots these systems remove ice once its built up . In this case you need to actually enter the conditions and allow the ice to build up first . <URL> The temperature depends on the cloud type but generally speaking low temperature and higher moisture content will create worse issues . <URL> ( <URL> ) Pilots will be alerted to <URL> . These are often quite broad area AIRMET 's . If a pilot believes they are potentially flying into icing conditions they should keep an eye on the airframe for structural icing build up . Many airplanes have icing lights to help at night with this . A pilot can activate the De-Ice system at any point if they feel it is needed .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
end question
start question
Do I have to notify someone or file a flight plan for a private flight in the UK ?
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
The " master list " of special flight rules areas ( SFRAs ) in the United States is <URL> ) - aptly named " Special Air Traffic Rules " . It contains a list of areas with " Special Air Traffic Rules " , including the requirements for operating in those areas . Charts with SFRAs on them include a notice directing you to FAR 93 ( and often other helpful information about the SFRA ) : <URL> In addition to " Special Air Traffic Rules " some airspace with " special " rules may be defined by " Special Federal Aviation Regulations " ( SFARs ) , found at the beginning of Part 91 . The only one I see in there currently is the Grand Canyon National Park SFAR .
Even for zero payload , no B707 model is able to fly more than 6000nmi ( 11111km ) . B727 even has less range . However , Iranair planned to run Tehran-LAX flight , which length is 12222km , but never materialized because of 1979 revolution . The flight could have been operated by the 747SP ( introduced in 1976 ) , similar to their Tehran-JFK route . <URL> <URL>
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
A common way to approach this is to walk through the flight and write down each frequency you 'll need in order . Your route is a bit unclear ( are you departing Aspen or landing there ? ) but let 's say it 's KBDU-KASE-KDEN and it 's a VFR flight . And I 'm assuming you 're only asking about comms , not nav . You think through what you 're doing at each point and then write down the station , frequency and what you plan to say , request or listen for , as the case may be . For example , you 're departing <URL> ; it 's uncontrolled so you 'll check the AWOS and then use the CTAF to announce your intentions as you taxi and depart . After that the route to KASE seems to be through uncontrolled airspace but you 'll probably want to get the Empire and Copper Mtn AWOS along the way . And if you want flight following then you 'll have to call Denver Center to get it . <URL> is controlled , so you 'll need to get their ATIS , then call the tower , and after landing you 'll be handed off to Ground . Departing KASE , you 'll get the ATIS , call Ground , then the Tower and after departure maybe Denver Center again for flight following . And so on ... You 'll end up with a frequency log like this : KBDU - AWOS - 118.825 - Get altimeter , wind , etc. . KBDU - CTAF - 122.725 - Announce taxi and departure Denver Ctr - 126.1 - Request flight following Empire AWOS - 134.325 - Get WX and compare to forecast ; change flight plan if needed [ ... ] KASE - ATIS - 120.4 - Get WX and runway in use KASE - Tower - 118.85 - Announce landing intentions ( check two way comms before entering class D ! ) KASE - Ground -121.9 - Request taxi to FBO [ Etc. . . ] This can be a really useful planning exercise , especially in unfamiliar areas . If you 're unsure of the phraseology or procedures for any item on the list then you can talk to your instructor about it , and listen to real comms on <URL> . <URL> in particular would ( will ? ) be busy , it 's class B . But remember that plans change . ATC may give you an unexpected frequency , or you may copy down a frequency incorrectly and then find no one is listening . Make sure that you update your log in flight as needed ; do n't fixate on it being ' correct ' to the point where you ignore instructions or information to the contrary ; and be able to look up frequencies quickly on your charts or flight software .
First , can a pilot without an HP endorsement act as safety pilot in an HP aircraft ? Since <URL> only requires a safety pilot to have category and class ratings , there 's no need to have any additional endorsements . That 's confirmed in <URL> : there is no regulatory requirement that a safety pilot have a high performance endorsement to act as safety pilot The same document says that safety pilots are " encouraged to be thoroughly familiar and current in the aircraft that is used " - which is great advice - but that 's it . As for the flight conditions ( IMC/VMC ) and rules ( IFR/VFR ) , I 'm not sure what you 're asking . Is either pilot IFR current ? If not , then the flight can only be VFR . <URL> might be relevant .
I 'm not sure how it works in the EU as I am an American PPL student but let 's ignore the small specifics and look at some general points . Number of planes Where I fly there are 2 flight schools ; one has a fleet of about 20 planes from Grumman trainers all the way up through a Seminole . The other school has 2 planes ... The obvious thing here is down time . The fact is that planes break , need routine checks and get rented by other students . A flight school with more planes ( and an appropriate amount of instructors ) will be able to handle these issues better . Many times I have booked a plane to find that it 's in the shop and I get assigned another plane ( same make and model ) . Type of planes While you cant be as picky here since sometimes geography limits you , some schools may be significantly more expensive than others . One of the nearby fields flight schools I looked at had just bought a new fleet of SR22 's and were renting them at 250 USD an hour wet compared to the 100 USD an hour wet that I pay for a Piper Warrior . This can make a big difference in cost of training . Not that you are thinking this far in advance but if you do intend to one day buy a plane you may want to consider training in the type although its hard to say what kind of plane you would buy before you start flying :) . If you intend on getting your instrument rating ( I assume there is an EU equivalent ) you will also want to make sure you are at a place that has instrument-capable planes and possibly even a precision approach system . It also stands to reason that a place with older planes may see more down time as the planes may need more service but most old planes that I have flown are well kept . Here in the US trainer planes need to be inspected every 100 hours so they are out somewhat frequently for that already . Number of instructors Here in the US many instructors are doing so to get enough hours for their ATP . With that in mind instructors are subject to leave at any time if they make their hours and find a commercial job . Bigger schools will be able to reassign you to another instructor or may have better luck hiring a new instructor to fill the gap . Type of airport Again sometimes you ca n't be picky here because of geography but training at a towered airport as apposed to an uncontrolled field can help you hone in your radio work from day one . A bigger slightly more busy airport may also give you real experience with things like wake turbulence avoidance . Most larger airports also tend to have 2 runways which can help you on those windy days ( depending on direction and such ) . They also tend to have better services like plowing , precision approaches , fuel ( not all airports have gas ! ) , pre-heats that do n't take 20 minutes to show up etc. . This can also be a but of a curse sometimes as larger airports are subject to traffic and you may find your self sitting on the runway waiting to take off on a nice day . Cost This can be a big factor for some people . Some are lucky enough to have the money to fly where its easiest for them ( close to home or work ) etc. , while others do n't have this luxury and must fly where its the cheapest . Here in the US a cheap school will still get you the same PPL that a super expensive place with a brand new SR22 will . So if your goal is simply to fly and cost is a serious factor there is nothing wrong with going with the cheaper option ( which may involve driving a bit farther ) as long as you factor in the potential down time of the planes or difficulty of booking them .
The control problems are caused by a shift of the aerodynamic forces . In subsonic flight , they are mostly created in the forward part of the wing ( the lift increase with angle of attack works at the quarter chord point of a wing , regardless of sweep ) , while in supersonic flow they work equally over the full chord . The center of lift in pure supersonic flow is at mid chord , and in reality the aerodynamic center shifts slowly back when the aircraft accelerates through Mach 1 and more of the surface is exposed to supersonic flow . Since the c.g. position is mostly fixed ( Concorde pumped fuel between tanks to shift the c.g. ) , this shift must be compensated with elevator deflection . The elevator must move trailing edge up , which creates a break in the airfoil contour , which in turn creates a heavy shockwave at high subsonic and supersonic flight speed . This shock causes flow separation and can lead to elevator reversal . Only when the fixed part of the horizontal tail can be moved , too , or you have a full-flying tail ( the whole stabilizer is moved , not only the rear part of it ) to create the needed lift change without a contour break , the aircraft can be trimmed for both subsonic and supersonic speed . The benefit of the X-1 was a stabilizer with variable incidence , which the P-51 lacked . Sweep would have helped , too , but was not really necessary .
I do n't think the information is accessible on a public website . According to the <URL> the Luftfahrtbundesamt ( LBA , the German Civil Aviation Authorities ) can not publish the information for data protection law reasons . On their <URL> ( in German ) they state that they do release information to members of the public at a fee ( they love that here ) . A little bit of link-clicking later you will find that you have to pay 40 euros . I am not sure whether they can release the name of the owner . The law ( Luftverkehrsgesetz ) governing the information in the register can be found <URL> .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
The rules are as follows : Privileges and limitations A holder of a PPL may , for compensation or hire , act as a crewmember of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if -- a. the flight is only incidental to that business or employment ; and b. the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " Compensation or hire " means income , not expenses . You can always be reimbursed for expenses such as fuels . Only income is forbidden under certain circumstances ( see below ) . Concerning getting income , you can be paid income if both of conditions ( a ) and ( b ) above true . That means your business can not be anything to do with flight . If your company is Boeing or any air-travel related business , you can not receive ANY income ( even your salary ) for piloting such a flight . The aircraft can not be used to carry paying passengers or cargo . So , basically what this means is that if you fly anybody from your company , they can pay only the expenses of the aircraft and nothing else . You can be paid your salary , only if flying is not your job in any way . As long as you have a regular job and it is fully incidental to flying , then you can fly clients and fellow employees and receive expense reimbursement only . If you are flying clients , they can not in any way be paying money for the flight other than direct expenses like fuel . The usual consequence of violating these regulations is that your license to fly can be suspended or revoked . Technically speaking , flying for hire without a license is a minor criminal offense ( see below ) , however prosecutions in the past have only been given out for egregious violations ( like working for a charter company without a commercial license ) . The way these regulations are enforced is the following : ( 1 ) If you are flying passengers or cargo for hire , and somebody rats you out , complains to the CAA , or it otherwise comes to their attention , then they will investigate and revoke your license if they determine you are flying for hire . ( 2 ) The CAA has inspectors and they may do surprise inspections of aircraft . If you start flying passengers regularly , you may get inspected . If the inspector finds you are flying a bunch of passengers with a PPL , they will closely question your passengers about what money those people are paying . If the inspector determines they are paying money other than incidental expenses to be flown , you will likely have your PPL license revoked . EXAMPLE : You are flying 3 colleagues to a business meeting . A CAA inspector directs you to park on the ramp and inspects you and finds out you have a PPL . He will then question your passengers . How much are you paying for this flight ? Colleagues answer : ( 1 ) " nothing " . You are ok . ( 2 ) " 18 pounds " . You are probably ok . ( 3 ) " 200 pounds " . You will lose your license . If he see cargo on the aircraft , then there are two possibilities : ( 1 ) He determines that the cargo is incidental to the flight and it belongs to you . ( Like scientific equipment and you are a professor flying to an archeological site ) . You are ok . ( 4 ) He sees cargo on the aircraft that does NOT belong to you ( like 8 cases of computer chips being delivered to an electronics company ) . You will lose your license because you are flying cargo for hire . Criminal Issues Note that technically , flying for hire is a minor criminal offense in the UK and can be punished with a fine up to 2500 pounds in a magistrate court . However , <URL> . In the linked news story it was found there was only a single prosecution over the course of a year , and in that case it was a pilot working for a charter company and doing many commercial passenger flights , which was a blatant violation of the rules .
I do n't think there is any regulation on max flying hours , just regulations on <URL> . The <URL> is the most frequent check , and according to Wikipedia : This is performed approximately every 125 flight hours or 200 -- 400 cycles . It needs about 20 -- 50 man-hours and is usually performed overnight at an airport gate or hangar . The actual occurrence of this check varies by aircraft type , the cycle count ( takeoff and landing is considered an aircraft " cycle " ) , or the number of hours flown since the last check . The occurrence can be delayed by the airline if certain predetermined conditions are met . The other checks include : B check - every 4 -- 6 months , requiring about 150 man-hours and is usually performed within 1 -- 3 days at an airport hangar C check - every 20 -- 24 months , requiring about 6000 man-hours , taking 1 to 2 weeks to complete D check - major maintenance check , occuring about every 6 years , requiring 50,000 man hours , generally spanning a couple months . Note that all of these times are approximate , depending on the exact maintenance plan filed by the airline and the aircraft type . Also cycle count may be factored into the maintenance intervals in addition to flight hours so aircraft that do many short-haul flights may have more frequent maintenance . So in any case , only looking at the A checks , if you can land , refuel , service , and get back in the air in 2 hours between 10 hour flights , the plane could stay in the air for 20 hours/day . Every 6 days , it will need some downtime for the A checks , let 's say the airline puts enough people on it to get the check done in 5 hours . So that 's 125 hours per cycle : 120 hours flying , 5 hours in maintenance . They can fit 4.83 of these cycles in a 30 day month so the aircraft could be flying up to 580 hours in any given month ( but that last A check gets deferred to the next month , so that means less time in the air that month . With longer flights ( which reduces the overhead from turnaround times ) and tighter turnaround times , the flight hours per month could be higher . If you really want the maximum for a month , then if you assume 125 hours per maintenance inverval and that the plane is kept in the air as long as possible with 0 turnaround time , that 's around 690 flying hours out of 720 total hours in a month . Of course , this makes a big assumption that the A check interval really is 120 hours , and that the time to do the maintenance is 5 hours , in the real world both numbers will vary based on aircraft , airline , and maintenance staffing levels . Plus , over the longer term , you need to factor the other , less frequent but also more time consuming maintenance checks ( B through D checks ) , as well as allow downtime for unexpected repairs .
In training , flight attendants are given lots of emergency training , but always with the caveat that they are under no obligation to put themselves in danger . Emergency procedures should proceed up until the time a flight attendant feels they are in danger , then they are to evacuate the airplane themselves as quickly as possible . There was a long standing joke among flight attendants when I was working , which was the most important emergency instruction you can give : Follow me ! Funny , but not really . It keeps things in perspective . Not commonly known is that any emergency responder today operates under the same conditions . You are not being paid to put yourself in danger beyond what your training will accommodate .
The EASA issued LAPL ( A ) is limited to 2to MTOM , 3 passengers max and only valid in European countries . A PPL ( A ) issued by an EASA country does not have these restrictions , but can be subject to local restrictions in the non-European country you want to flyin , e.g. you can not use the EASA PPL ( A ) to fly in the US without further paperwork . For more information , see the <URL> . Your LAPL ( A ) is a lifetime licence that contains SEP ( land ) and/or TMG privileges restricted to non-complex EASA aeroplanes with a maximum take off mass of 2 metric tonnes and a maximum of four people on board . You can fly more complex aeroplanes within the privileges if you have ' differences training ' signed off in your log book by a suitable instructor . The LAPL is also valid on non-EASA UK registered aircraft in the UK . The LAPL requires an in-date EASA Part-Med Medical Certificate , at LAPL level , but Class One or Class Two certificates can also be used . A valid JAA Class One or Two medical certificate is also acceptable . But you can not use your LAPL with an NPPL medical declaration . The SEP ( land ) or TMG endorsement on this type of licence is not issued as a rating . So there is no rating expiry date . Instead you must follow self-validity checks on your own flying history for the past 2 years to ensure currency on the day of your planned flight . Further Reading from the UK CAA : <URL> <URL>
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
This question was answered in an earlier ( 2013 ) message . Generally , if you are ferrying an airplane and are compensated as a commercial pilot , are not carrying passengers or cargo for hire , you are operating under Part 91 of the US federal aviation regulations . That you are a paid ferry pilot is not relevant . See 19 CFR 122.1 ( d ) A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers or cargo for money or other consideration . As you are not transporting passengers or cargo ( both of which would be covered under the commercial operator rules ) or you have a passenger as a friend or the aircraft owner who does not pay for passage , you are ferrying an aircraft which is covered as a private flight . Make absolutely certain you understand how the US eAPIS system applies to you as a foreign national bringing the aircraft into the US , and you have appropriate documentation and the owner is prepared to jump through whatever hoops Customs needs to get the aircraft ashore . The US Customs Guide for Private Flyers is a useful reference . Simon , I disagree with your understanding . There are many operations which are not commercial , with paid pilots . An example of this is a corporation owns an airplane which requires a pilot . The corporation can hire a pilot to fly its airplane and carry its parts/executives/employees / friends . While the pilot must carry a commercial certificate and carry at least a Class II medical certificate , the flight is not considered a commercial flight , nor is the the company considered a commercial operator since it does not hold out its aircraft for hire , unless its in the air carriage business . If on the other hand that same aircraft owner decided to carry the company next door 's freight and executives and charge them for it , that changes the story .
A quick look at the <URL> makes it sound like , in the USA , they can enter any sort of airspace provided they can do it safely . So , theoretically , they could file a flight plan or at least alert local ATC to their activities . All of that being said , having been involved in hot air balloon operations before , I think it would not be terribly feasible . Firstly , flying a hot air balloon outside of Visual Flight Rule conditions ( being able to see several miles ) would be extremely dangerous , so you would n't need to file a flight plan for that . Secondly , you generally only want to fly a hot air balloon in very sparsely populated areas ( Class G airspace ) , and while you could have a flight plan there really is n't a need . A more congested area ( Class B or Class A ) would be extremely dangerous to navigate in a hot air balloon . It 's pretty hard to get out of the way , since controlling where you are going is ... iffy sometimes . So , in summary , yes it could be done , but in the vast majority of cases there 's little need to do it . Other than to just alert local ATC that you will be in the area .
The theoretical answer to your question is that you can always get an IFR clearance directly from ATC over the radio , and filing a flight plan in advance is n't required ( but it is strongly advised to avoid delays ) . In reality , however , you should file in advance if at all possible . This is from the <URL> ( my emphasis ) : Instrument flight plans may be submitted to the nearest FSS or ATCT either in person or by telephone ( or by radio if no other means are available ) . Pilots should file IFR flight plans at least 30 minutes prior to estimated time of departure to preclude possible delay in receiving a departure clearance from ATC . The IFR flight plan system is there for good reasons : it helps ATC manage busy airspace and it avoids the need for lengthy radio discussions . If you do n't file a flight plan in advance then you 'll probably annoy ATC and you may be delayed because they ca n't take your request directly . Pop-up clearances by definition do n't have a full flight plan filed in advance , but they do have an <URL> : An authorization by ATC requiring pilots to submit only that information needed for the purpose of ATC . It includes only a small portion of the usual IFR flight plan information . In certain instances , this may be only aircraft identification , location , and pilot request . Other information may be requested if needed by ATC for separation/control purposes . It is frequently used by aircraft which are airborne and desire an instrument approach or by aircraft which are on the ground and desire a climb to VFR-on-top . Weather is n't predictable and a VFR flight may have to become IFR for safety reasons , so there needs to be some flexibility for aircraft that are actually in the air . A pop-up clearance is just a different , simpler way of requesting an IFR clearance ; once you have it , you 're IFR and operating in exactly the same way that you would if you had filed in advance . Descending to VFR conditions is an interesting idea but ATC ca n't clear you to descend below the minimum IFR altitude for the area . You could request the lowest altitude ATC can give you , then cancel IFR if you break out . But descending without a specific altitude restriction seems very risky : the temptation would be to keep going lower to " have a look " , and that could end up as a <URL> . Finally , at least in my experience the 30-minute ' rule ' is really a guideline to avoid delays . I 've never had an issue filing IFR and departing 15 minutes later , but then I 'm usually flying between class C or D airports and the airspace is n't particularly busy . A class B airport is probably a different story .
Since you mention Dublin , I am going to give an answer that describes the situation in Europe . Other parts of the world may have different procedures , although I believe they will be similar . Usually a flight plan must be activated within a given time window to ensure that there is enough capacity ( airspace , ATC staffing , departure &amp; arrival airport constraints ) along the route to handle the flight . If the flight is not departing with this ' slot ' a new flight plan needs to be requested and approved by the <URL> ( NMOC ) ( Previously called Central Flow Management Unit ( CFMU ) ) . The controller is not responsible for filing flight plans and can not be tasked with doing the paperwork for the crew . The crew therefore needs to contact their handler or flight operation centre to refile a flight plan . The NMOC will reassess the flight plan and verify that there is capacity along the planned route to handle the flight . If there is n't , the flight may need to be planned along another route or an additional slot delay will be given .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
end question
start question
In G1000 , how can I intercept a victor airway with multiple legs ?
If the airway is too far away to accurately determine which leg you are going to intercept , why would you let the G1000 pick the leg you are going to intercept ? You know best what you want and , as you say , ATC may change your heading anyway . So you should n't intercept automatically until you are fairly sure where you are intercepting . Instead you remain in HDG mode which gives you full control and makes it easy when ATC instructs you to change heading . Then when you are a couple of miles from intercepting you select the leg and let the G1000 do the magic if you want to . Automation is there to relieve you from difficult or boring tasks . If you find that you spend a lot of time programming your FMS , it may be better to reduce the level of automation and spend the extra time on situational awareness . I recommend watching this America Airlines training video on <URL> ( a.k.a. " Children of the magenta line " ) . It addresses the FMS / autoflight dependecies for airline pilots . The video is over 15 years old and by now similar automation systems have entered the cockpits of small aircraft . Although some aspects of the video address a multicrew environment , the main points are equally valid for G1000 equipped single crew / single engine propeller aircraft .
First , let 's be crystal clear on something : A person experiencing symptoms of acute hypoxia is an emergency which requires immediate action to ensure the safety of that person . In an in-flight emergency requiring immediate action , the pilot in command may deviate from any rule ... to the extent required to meet that emergency . ( <URL> ) . So if you 're over the Grand Canyon at 11,500 feet and your mother starts showing signs of hypoxia you key the mic and let ATC know you have a passenger showing signs of hypoxia , tell them you are descending to a lower altitude , and ask for vectors to an airport where you can land . If they give you any trouble about it you respond with " N12345 is declaring a medical emergency " . All that said , there are sensible things you can do to mitigate the risk of hypoxia and avoid the need to declare an emergency . If you intend to spend an extended period of time at altitude ( which I personally define as " Over 10,000 feet " for an average healthy non-smoker ) : Bring a <URL> Ideally with enough cannulas/outlets for yourself and your mother/other passengers ) . If a full oxygen system is n't an option bring one or more <URL> These can provide temporary/limited relief for symptoms of hypoxia -- probably enough to get yourself back on the ground , or at least to a lower altitude . Carry a relatively inexpensive <URL> Check your <URL> periodically to catch hypoxia early - before clinical symptoms develop .
In general , <URL> For training time specifically , the foreign instructor must hold an ICAO-compliant license , per <URL> . So it should be no problem in your situation .
This is probably more <URL> than an aviation one , but I did some Googling of various aviation and travel sites and the consensus seems to be this : You can carry the scanner with you , but if you 're unlucky and encounter the wrong TSA agent on the wrong day then you may be asked a lot of questions at security ( the <URL> " Can I Bring ... " tool seems to consider scanners to be generic electronic items ) Using the scanner while sitting in the airport is fine , but if you attract attention to yourself then you may be questioned by the police or airport security You may not use a two-way radio on board the aircraft , because they 're specifically required to be off at all times ( this is in every airline 's safety instructions that I 've seen ) ; that should n't apply to a radio that only receives but the cabin crew might ask you to turn it off anyway if they 're not sure about it Even if you did operate the scanner in the air , the reception is terrible and you 'll probably hear only the aircraft 's crew , not ATC Note that this information is for the USA only , many other countries are very strict about possession and use of scanners or two-way radios and in the UK ( for example ) just <URL> .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
The screens are LCDs , which have a polarized filter layer over them . That layer is usually placed at a 45 ° so they are misaligned with your polarized sunglasses which are aligned vertically . You can confirm this is the problem by turning your sunglasses at different angles and see if the screen changes .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
You can log PIC time because you are " the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated " ( <URL> ) . That 's all that is required in this case for the pilot to log PIC time . So since a pilot must be night current in order to fly with passengers , ( <URL> ) the question becomes , " is a flight instructor considered a passenger if they are providing instruction " ? AOPA has a <URL> about this specific scenario where they quote FAA legal interpretations as saying : " We agree that , for purposes of section 61.57 ( b ) , an authorized instructor providing instruction in an aircraft is not considered a passenger with respect to the person receiving instruction , even where the person receiving the instruction is acting as [ pilot in command ] . ( The instructor must be current , qualified to instruct , and hold a category , class , and type rating in the aircraft , if a class and type rating is required . ) The instructor is not a passenger because he is present specifically to train the person receiving instruction . Neither is the person receiving instruction a passenger with respect to the instructor . This training may take place , even though neither pilot has met the 61.57 ( b ) requirements . " Note that they say in this case , since neither of them is a passenger , that technically neither the pilot or the flight instructor has to be night current .
It 's an illusion that the blades appear to be going slowly . It 's actually a well known effect called the <URL> . Essentially the rotor is spinning at close to an even multiple of the camera 's framerate divided by the number of rotors . This means that between frames the blades have moved a full quarter rotation ( or a multiple of that ) . Creating the illusion that the rotor is moving more slowly that it actually is .
Yes , you can , you do n't need anything other than the words to be visible by the passenger . Your PPL is fine for flying experimentals , although like any other aircraft change , I would get instruction from an experienced instructor in that type/model before going solo . Experimental aircraft can have some pretty different handling characteristics . So , from a regulations standpoint , you are looking for <URL> . According to ( j ) of that : No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113 ( i ) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 6 occupants . So you can have up to 6 occupants ( including the pilot ) . Do I need something special if I wanted to buy one of these planes ? No , your PPL allows you to fly experimentals , but as I said above , please get training from an instructor familiar with the aircraft and its handling characteristics . Many dear departed pilots probably wished in the last moments that they had some formal training in the experimentals they bought . You should also get somebody to go over the aircraft mechanically that is familiar with that model . Also look into your insurance costs , the airplane may be cheaper , but your insurance will probably be more expensive .
If all you 're looking for is calculations of ETE , ETA , headings , fuel burn , and other such items you can make use of the FAA 's <URL> platform . <URL> has some basic capability in this area as well . You 'll have to chase down the actual aircraft performance data to input into the software if you want realistic estimates , but the internet is awash with information manuals and operating handbooks for the more widespread families of light aircraft . Google is your friend for this one . As for numbers between waypoints , the simple and lazy , but often sufficient , solution is to simply interpolate . Commercial solutions exist as well such as <URL> and AOPA 's <URL> , but I doubt they would add anything of substantial value for your particular needs .
You should wash your aircraft in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . We could all offer opinions and product recommendations in response to this question . However , the best answer is : in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . Since you ask the question generically , without any information on what aircraft you might have , I will answer generically . Your manufacturer 's instructions can generally be found in at least two places : the owner 's manual/AFM and the maintenance manual . For example , in the owners manual for a 1975 Cessna 172M , you will find Section V : Care of The Airplane containing instructions on how to wash painted surfaces , bare aluminum surfaces , interior surfaces , and the windscreen and windows . The maintenance manual for the same aircraft contains nearly -- if not exactly -- identical information in chapter 2 . Now , for that aircraft and others , Cessna recommends use of mild detergent in certain applications ; you might not find that overly helpful in choosing what to use . Based on my research and experience , and time honored practice that I 've observed , Dawn dish soap is widely used for cleaning painted Cessna aircraft with no apparent long term harmful effects . The airframe that I fly for work has tens of thousands of hours on it , and while I can not vouch for how often it was washed in the past , I try to wash parts of it a few times a week . There is no apparent washing damage to the paint . I will also highlight Cessna 's instruction to use Stoddard solvent on areas of stubborn oil or grease ; this can be especially helpful in cleaning the belly with it 's typical collection of oil and dirt . My practice is typically to wipe down the belly with solvent first , and then follow with a water and detergent wash . If the manufacturer 's instructions are not clear , or are otherwise insufficient to answer your question regarding your specific aircraft , I would recommend asking your maintenance professional . He or she should have both the knowledge and experience to steer you in the right direction . For more insight into the world of aircraft cleaning , and especially for the specific product recommendations you want , you might take a look at this AvWeb article by Kim Santerre : <URL> .
Obviously the MEMS engine itself is not going to be detected : they 're only a few millimetres across . The question entirely depends on what you attach it to . Conventional radars have trouble detecting UAVs less than a couple of metres long , and replacing their power plants with micro turbines wo n't change that . My neighbours at <URL> already have a holographic radar system that can detect smaller targets such as UAVs more accurately . Again , changing the power plant technology wo n't change that . Micro-turbines are not intended to replace propulsion systems , but to replace batteries , allowing them to use denser hydrogen , methane , or methanol fuel . As far as I 've been able to find , they do n't produce break-even power yet , but it 's envisioned that they will become commercially relevant once they can produce more than 10 W ( about .01 hp ) , in a few years ' time . For comparison , a current , small , military UAV might generate tens of horsepower , and some experimental super-lightweight UAVs need as little as 5 hp , but with no payload or cargo . TL ; DR : ( a ) MEMS turbines are n't going to be relevant for UAVs for some years , and they 'll have to be much bigger than they are now ; ( b ) replacing the power plant wo n't make much difference to the radar signature .
If the airway is too far away to accurately determine which leg you are going to intercept , why would you let the G1000 pick the leg you are going to intercept ? You know best what you want and , as you say , ATC may change your heading anyway . So you should n't intercept automatically until you are fairly sure where you are intercepting . Instead you remain in HDG mode which gives you full control and makes it easy when ATC instructs you to change heading . Then when you are a couple of miles from intercepting you select the leg and let the G1000 do the magic if you want to . Automation is there to relieve you from difficult or boring tasks . If you find that you spend a lot of time programming your FMS , it may be better to reduce the level of automation and spend the extra time on situational awareness . I recommend watching this America Airlines training video on <URL> ( a.k.a. " Children of the magenta line " ) . It addresses the FMS / autoflight dependecies for airline pilots . The video is over 15 years old and by now similar automation systems have entered the cockpits of small aircraft . Although some aspects of the video address a multicrew environment , the main points are equally valid for G1000 equipped single crew / single engine propeller aircraft .
I 'm not an expert in 3D geometry , so I 'll only explain the methods detailed in : <URL> . Two DME ranges and aircraft altitude When the slant distance has been determined using a DME station , the aircraft is on a sphere centered on the station . By interrogating two stations , two intersecting spheres are determined . If the aircraft is located on the line between the two stations ( the baseline ) , then the intersection is a single point , else the intersection is a circle ( pink in the figure below ) . <URL> Taking into account altitude , only two points of the circle ( green in the figure below ) correspond to a possible aircraft location . Ambiguity One of these points is the true position , the other is the " ambiguity " , symmetrical to the true position relative to the baseline ( gray ) . The ambiguity will appear in the method when using $ arcsin $ function , which will give two angles for the same value . There are multiple possibility to eliminate the ambiguity : Monitor the progress of the aircraft and keep the point which motion matches the heading . For example on the top view , if the aircraft flies north , the top point moves north while the bottom point moves south . The latter is indeed a wrong position . A predictive <URL> can detect such anomaly . Use a third DME : The third DME matches a single point . DME accuracy must be taken into account , and the best result will be obtained when the third DME is abeam the aircraft position , between the two first DME stations . Such position maximizes the difference between the two possibilities . Use a VOR collocated with one of the DME . Position determination : Overview of the method The problem of DME/DME/Elevation location boils down to : <URL> Two DME stations U and S : latitudes , longitudes and altitudes are known ( $ \ small L_U , \ lambda_U , h_U $ and $ \ small L_S , \ lambda_S , h_S $ ) Aircraft A : altitude is known ( $ \ small h_A $ ) The slant distances are measured ( $ \ small d _ { UA } $ and $ \ small d _ { SA } $ ) C is Earth center ( Earth radius is $ \ small R_e $ , and P the ground projection of the aircraft position . The manual suggests these steps : Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle We know the altitudes and the slant ranges : It is possible to calculate two geocentric angles $ \ theta _ { SA } $ ( SCA ) and $ \ theta _ { UA } $ ( UCA ) . For each DME $ x $ : $ $ \ theta _ { xA } = arcsin \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ sqrt { \ frac { ( d _ { xA } - h_A + h_x ) ( d _ { xA } + h_A-h_x ) } { ( R_e + h_x ) ( R_e + h_A ) } } \ right ) $ $ Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations We now need to calculate the geocentric angle $ \ theta _ { US } $ between DME stations : $ $ sin ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ theta _ { US } ) = \ sqrt { sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( L_S-L_U ) \ right ) + cos ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) \ right ) } $ $ where $ \ small L_U $ and $ \ small L_S $ are latitudes of U and S and $ \ small \ lambda_U $ and $ \ small \ lambda_S $ are longitudes of U and S. ( You get $ \ small \ theta $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) The method also provides equations for the determination of the azimuth at the extremities of the baseline between U and S , let 's calculate one : $ $ tan ( \ psi _ { S/U } ) = \ frac { cos ( L_S ) sin ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } { sin ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) - cos ( L_S ) sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ psi _ { S/U } $ using $ \ small arctan $ . ) Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed This step check wether the ranges are meaningful , i.e. the two DME range spheres intersect . If they do n't ( and this should never happen ) , there is no solution . The DME spheres are depicted by the geocentric angles $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } $ and $ \ small \ theta _ { SA } $ : If $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } + \ small \ theta _ { SA } < \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then the spheres do n't intersect ( too remote ) If $ \ left | \ small \ theta _ { UA } - \ small \ theta _ { SA } \ right | > \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then spheres are concentric , they do n't intersect . Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA This step allows for the determination of any angle of the triangle USA , we need only one : $ $ cos ( \ beta_U ) = \ frac { cos ( \ theta _ { SA } ) - cos ( \ theta _ { US } ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { sin ( \ theta _ { US } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ beta_U $ using $ \ small arccos $ . ) Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Azimuth angles : If A is south of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } + \ beta_U $ $ If A is north of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } - \ beta_U $ $ Aircraft latitude $ \ small L_A $ : $ $ sin ( L_A ) = sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) + cos ( L_U ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) cos ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) $ $ ( You get $ \ small L_A $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) Aircraft longitude $ \ small \ lambda_A $ : $ $ tan ( \ lambda_A - \ lambda_U ) = \ frac { sin ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { cos ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta
Generally speaking you continue your climb after rotation although this will depend on the runway , runway conditions and airport procedures . <URL> : In some cases if you are leaving from a grass strip ( still technically a runway ) you will go for your soft field take off maneuver . In this case you will actually pop the plane off the ground into ground effect as soon as you can ( you will be flying at this point ) . Then build up speed in ground effect ( at a level attitude so you can see the runway fine ) then begin your climb out when you have sufficient speed at a climb attitude . <URL> : If the runway is short ( or there is an obstacle to clear ) you will execute your short field maneuvers . In this case you will take off with 1 notches of flaps . Gun the engine but hold the breaks and let the prop spin up . Then as soon as you hit rotation speed pull back to your best angle of climb . Then when you have cleared your obstacle you can level it out to a normal climb t ( best rate or what ever you planed for ) . In this case clearing the obstacle may be more important than strictly maintaining the runway heading ( depending on where the obstacle is ) . In this maneuver you will focus on your airspeed ( to keep from stalling ) as well as your attitude indicator and your heading indicator to keep as on course as possible . Air Port Procedures : Some airports have special procedures for departing because of obstacles , air spaces , noise abatements etc. . For example I fly out of DYL and they have a procedure on runway 23 that calls for a turn to 250 and climb out to 1200 ft before executing any other turns or maneuvers . Once I have cleared the trees I will usually begin my turn . Generally speaking you fly the runway heading after you have rotated and you do this using the heading indicator NOT the compass . Since you are in accelerated climbing flight your compass is inaccurate .
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
The answer is quite simple : 1 . When touching down the nose is in a pulled up attitude , therefore the tail is farther down then normal . As soon as the airplane touches down ( on all wheels ) , the tail is higher , thus the hook is higher . You can see how the aircraft is in a nose up attitude , but gear and hook are on the same level . If the aircraft was sitting on all its tires , the hook would not actually touch the ground . ( This might not even be the case on all aircraft , though ! ) 2 . This is the much more important reason : The hook is hydraulically pushed onto the deck ( see Rhino Driver 's answer for more detail ) but as soon as the hook hooks to the cable , and pulls on it , that hydraulic pressure is overcome and the vectors of the forces go from where the hook is attached to the plane to where the wire comes out of the ground ( and vice versa ) . As you can see here , the hook is actually almost parallel to the deck . 3 . Last but not least : There is no space for two wires on one hook . Let 's say the airplane would catch the first rope , and for some reason ( it should definitely not happen , but let 's just pretend it does ) the hook is still on the ground where it would hook up to the second wire when crossing it , then it will maybe drag it along for a short time , but it ca n't really hook on as the hook is made to fit exactly one wire . This can be seen on this picture :
No , there is no legal minimum turnaround time . There are several technical reasons why an aircraft needs to stay on the ground for a while . Some of the ( already mentioned ) time consuming tasks are : Passenger ( de ) boarding , crew change , refueling , brake cooling , obtaining ATC clearance , visual inspection of the plane etc. .
end question
start question
Does the cockpit have an alarm to warn about fuel leakage ?
In a typical trainer aircraft ( in this case , a C172 ) , you have an annunciator panel that includes a " Low Fuel " light : <URL> These lights only come on when fuel is low if the lights are functioning properly . This panel is located prominently , and is easy to notice . This is only one aircraft , but when you consider it is an entry level aircraft that is less sophisticated , it gives a baseline idea of what you could expect to see . Also , there are fuel gauges displayed with all engine instruments that will indicate accordingly . While this is n't a leak detector , pilots are trained to monitor all instruments regularly and cross check the values - which is how a leak is identified in aircraft with low amounts of technology . It is worth noting that checking the " LOW FUEL " annunciator is off is a regular checklist item that occurs before you start your actual flight . As GdD mentions in the comments - you are taught not to rely on any one instrument indication , and panel lights are no exception .
The jury ( i.e. FAA ) is still out on this question as of early June 2014 . FAA has indicated it will not give a gasoline " fuel allowance " to be credited against weight for batteries . Given that fuel weighs 6 lbs . per gallon , or 30 lbs . for the maximum legal gas an ultralight can carry , it would be a somewhat negligible , but certainly welcome , allowance for would-be electric manufacturers . One company , Chip Erwin of AeroMarine , has imported a barebones ultralight motorglider based on the Goat towed ultralight glider . It 's called the <URL> , and carries batteries enough for 30-40 mins . of flight , without exceeding the 254-lb . weight limit of the part 103 category . In time the FAA may well decide to grant the allowance . It 's still not going to amount to much more time , maybe 10 minutes given current battery energy density , which is a fraction of the energy density of gasoline , but research into electric storage is at a feverish pace worldwide . Look for sport , then commercial electric aircraft , within the next 5 to 10 years . Several electric single and two-seat electrics are already flying . The Airbus ducted fan , recently ballyhooed as the first electric aircraft , which it certainly is n't , is a promising look at one way commercial electric applications might come to market .
tl ; dr The flame would progress upstream into the compressor until it and damage it , fatally disrupt the carefully balanced flow and stall the engine , or both . long answer : In a turbine engine , there is a continuous flame where injected fuel is ignited by the already burning fuel downstream . Now you ca n't match the flow speed and the flame propagation speed exactly , because a small disruption could then blow out the engine and because both depend on the power setting in non-trivial way . So in normal operation , the flame can propagate upstream until it gets to the point where the fuel is not yet sufficiently mixed with air to burn and there it stays . If you injected the fuel before the compressor , the flame would progress into it and as it would engulf the last stage , it would damage it and it would also increase the pressure beyond what the preceding stages could maintain , which would stall the compressor and cause the engine to stop , either immediately due to lack of oxygen , or by causing more damage with each stall cycle . Note that spark-ignition ( gasoline and LPG and CNG ) engines usually do inject fuel before compression , but it limits their compression ratio to around 12:1 with high-octane gasoline , 14:1 with clever tricks . If the compression ratio was higher , the fuel-air mixture would ignite from the compression heat before the piston reaches the top-dead-centre and act against the rotation . In contrast compression-ignition ( Diesel ) engines have compression ratio at least 14:1 and inject the fuel only when it should start burning . While early turbines had rather low compression ratios , the newest generation is getting into the range comparable with Diesel engines where the fuel might ignite due to the compression heat alone -- they still use sparks for ignition , because the starter wo n't build up as high pressures in them , but it clearly shows they ca n't inject the fuel before it should start burning .
Short Answer No , it does not have a back-up , there are some fail-safe components in the system ( see below ) , but in general the system itself is not duplicated . The system , together with a design that avoid ignition sources within the tanks , is just a part that contributes to prevent fuel tanks to ignite . An <URL> for commercial planes have been considered since <URL> and first regulation arrived in may 2006 . Longe Answer The certification CS25 .981 Fuel tank ignition prevention states : ( a ) No ignition source may be present at each point in the fuel tank or fuel tank system where catastrophic failure could occur due to ignition of fuel or vapors . ( c ) Design precautions must be taken to achieve conditions within the fuel tanks which reduce the likelihood of flammable vapors . So the function that should be achieved is prevent tank ignition and there are two fronts two work on , avoid ignition source , and reduce fuel vapors ( similar to the two slices of cheese that rbp was mentioning in the comments ) . So the fuel ignition system is a system designed to avoid fuel vapors . As can be seen in the image below , within the systems there are some redundancies ( e.g. : Dual Flow Shut Off Valve ) , but the system itself is not duplicated . Moreover the system is not on the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) , so the aircraft can still be dispatched with the system inoperative for 10 days . <URL>
The basic problem is that no matter how the aircraft 's fuel tanks are designed , if there is an air gap in the tank , then there is an attitude and/or a g-loading that puts that air gap over the inlet to the fuel line running to the engine . There are a lot of solutions to this problem . The first is exactly as you say ; do n't sustain any maneuver that starves the fuel pump ( and by extension the engine ) for a longer period than you have fuel in the lines to feed the engine . You can actually do a lot without the fuel system seeing a single hiccup in supply ; the fuel tanks are designed to feed while under positive G-load ( otherwise you could n't get any fuel to the engine just sitting on the tarmac ) , so hard turns , rolls , loops etc that keep a force on the aircraft and its contents acting downward towards the floor of the cockpit will keep the fuel flowing into the engine . Spins and high negative-G maneuvers tend to be the things that starve the engine ; if the tanks are in the wings , a hard spin , snap roll or zero-g parabola will push the fuel out away from the inlets at the wing roots . Most fuel systems except on the lightest aircraft have at least two fuel pumps per engine ; one electric pump on the tank side to shove fuel into the line , and one crankshaft-powered pump that draws fuel out of the lines into the carb chamber or other fuel delivery system . The checklist often involves turning on the electric fuel pumps just before startup to prime the fuel lines , then turning them off once the engine is running smoothly , but you can keep the electric pump on if you plan on really twerking the aircraft in flight . The line between these two pumps actually holds a fair amount of fuel , plenty for a minute or more of sustained operation with the inlet at the tank totally starved , and coupled with a bleed valve on the engine side to release any air that 's entered the line , the two pumps running together can usually keep an uninterrupted flow of fuel into the engine by having the electric pump shove fuel down the line as fast as it can whenever the inlet is under the liquid level . For mild aerobatic maneuvers , a " flop tube " is put into the fuel tank . This is simply a flexible hose with a weight , that keeps the hose under the liquid level , no matter what forces are acting to move the mass of liquid around in the tank . This is a simple and very effective way to keep fuel flowing to the engine while the aircraft is under load in any direction , but because the flop tube requires a significant volume of fuel to sink underneath and draw from , flop tubes can increase the " unusable fuel " capacity of the aircraft ( fuel that exists in the tank , but the fuel system ca n't draw out in some normal circumstance ) . However , there 's a tradeoff ; the heavier the weight on the end of the flop tube , the more reliably it will stay under the fuel level regardless of attitude , but the more force with which it will impact the sides of the tank in violent maneuvers ( and padding the weight further increases unusable fuel ) . For the real aerobatic nuts , though , the maneuvers are so violent and so long that even a flop tube , redundant fuel pumps and bleed valves might get starved as the fuel sloshes and churns and there is n't a real " liquid level " to draw from . Many of these aircraft go one step further ; a bladder-style fuel container . Within the fuel tank is a flexible polymer vessel that actually holds the fuel ( typically in either wingtip tanks or a fuselage tank ; it 's usually impractical to try this with in-wing tanks ) . This bladder keeps the liquid and gas in the tank shell separate as the tank empties , and may also keep the fuel under some static pressure . If there 's no air to draw into the fuel lines , then no matter how the aircraft is oriented or how many Gs it 's pulling in any direction , the fuel lines ca n't be starved . Of course , the fuel lines are only one consideration . Most " normal " - rated aircraft have float-type carburetors , which hold a reservoir of fuel with another air gap , and the fuel level in the reservoir is controlled by a float that opens the inlet from the fuel pump ( this system also deals with small hiccups in the fuel flow from the tanks ; the air just forms part of the air gap and the float keeps the inlet open until fuel flows in to raise the level ) . This type of carb will starve the engine during any maneuvers involving less than 1g of force acting towards the " floor " of the float chamber , as the float will keep the inlet closed and the reservoir will starve the fuel feed tube that allows fuel to dribble into the throttle body at the throat . For aerobatics , either a diaphragm-chamber carb ( which has a flexible wall on one side of the reservoir chamber that is connected to the fuel inlet ) or a fuel injection system must be used to avoid dependence on gravity to get fuel into the engine . The downside of these systems are increased complexity , and in the case of the diaphragm-chamber carb , intolerance of air this far along t
I assume that you 're asking about piston engine light aircraft , so we can ignore gliders and electric engines for now . The basic point is that they 're all loud . <URL> compared a Cessna 172 ( single engine ) and a Piper Seminole ( twin engine ) and found that the average cabin noise was around 86 <URL> , with no huge difference between the two aircraft . There 's more analysis of a Seminole <URL> . The FAA <URL> that a light aircraft cabin is in the range of 70-90dB and <URL> measured 92-98dB in different Cirrus models . <URL> in the US <URL> ear protection and other measures for workers if the noise in their environment is 85dB or more . Since decibels are on a logarithmic scale , the difference between 86dB and 98dB is large . But I searched a few aviation forums and there 's very little discussion of cabin noise in light singles apart from a few subjective remarks . I could n't find any good sources that said one aircraft type is well known as being noisier or quieter than average . The only consistent comment is that helicopters are louder than fixed-wing aircraft , which is also shown in the FAA document linked above . Having said that , there are quite a few articles online about soundproofing aircraft in different ways . <URL> quotes the example of a jet : Aero Sound Shield is currently soundproofing a particularly large corporate jet - a converted McDonnell-Douglas MD-87 - for a Las Vegas hotel owner who is almost totally blind and who has compensated by developing extremely sensitive hearing . " He wants a 60-dB airplane , which is quieter than a Lexus , " Nelson points out . But the same article makes the point that modifying any aircraft to add soundproofing increases the weight to a point that makes the aircraft much less useful : Unfortunately , your airplane and mine ca n't accept the mass and weight of MD-87 measures . " I rode one time in a Piper Arrow that was very quiet , " Nelson recalls , " but it was completely lead-lined . It could carry two people and half a load of fuel . That was fine for that guy , because that 's all he ever wanted to carry , but it was n't very practical . " Furthermore , it 's worth remembering that modern noise-cancelling headsets are very good so the problem of noise ( as opposed to vibration , which is also a factor for fatigue and health ) has been more or less solved for most people . Even if you spend $ 1000 or more on a high-end ANR headset , that 's a minor cost compared to altering the aircraft structure or materials and you still have full performance and useful load . I guess that for most GA pilots that 's the decisive factor .
The reason is that bigger windows really are n't necessary . They are plenty big for the crew to see the runway just fine . Pilots have more than 180 degrees of visibility , and plenty of vertical visibility as well . Traffic routes and patterns are designed to make it easy for the pilots to see the runway as well . If the runway is behind you , then you need to turn around . If it 's below what you can see out the window , you are too high anyway . And if it 's above what you can see out the window , you probably have more important issues than finding the runway . Larger windows can help spot danger like other aircraft , but airliners are almost always flown under Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) where ATC is responsible for keeping them clear of conflicting traffic . In the past , <URL> did have larger window area . This was more important in an era where instrument navigation was more limited , and the pilots relied much more on their view outside . It was also more common on aircraft with military heritage , where it was more likely for pilots to find themselves relying on visual references instead of navigational aids . However , modern navigation systems have made larger windows even less useful . The instruments can tell pilots just about anything they need to know about anything they ca n't see out the windows . The 737 actually started with " <URL> " above the main row of windows . Modern systems have made those less useful , and the extra holes in the fuselage can cause cracks over time . Most 737 's delivered today do n't have them , and some of the old planes even get those windows plugged . Aside from the functional reasons for not increasing window size , <URL> will apply here as well .
A Special VFR ( SVFR ) clearance may be issued to a pilot when : The weather is below VFR weather minimums , as reported at the intended airport The pilot is able to remain clear of clouds The pilot has at least one mile flight visibility ( other than helicopters ) at all times The pilot is operating ( or wants to operate ) within the lateral boundaries of the airport surface area The pilot specifically requests it . The airport is not among those listed in <URL> ( except helicopters ) If the weather is not reported at the airport , the pilot must tell ATC that they are " unable to maintain VFR " and request SVFR . Side note : The weather conditions that you describe above are technically " Marginal VFR " and not IFR . It would be a perfect situation to operate SVFR though .
Axes are not carried in the cabin and the door is designed to resist attack using tools available in the cabin Fire/crash axe/crowbar . Fire axes were provided to obtain emergency access to areas and parts of the airplane which are not easily accessible ( e.g. behind sidewall , electrical or ceiling panels ) . The handle is insulated to protect against electric shock . In the past , fire axes might be found in the flight deck and in the passenger cabin but on most carriers , in compliance with anti-terrorism regulations and procedures , axes are no longer carried and have been replaced by insulated crowbars in the passenger/cargo compartment . From <URL>
While it is not on the required parameters list , it would not surprise me if it would be recorded - most FDRs record considerably more than the 88 mandatory parameters , and cockpit doors are of course interesting in accident investigations . That being said , it should also come across pretty evidently on the Cockpit Voice Recorder if somebody was trying to get in . The normal request is a pretty distinct buzzer and the emergency request is the same buzzer for 5 minutes unless denied / cancelled by the pilot . The door also locks quite loudly . Both should be able to be picked up by the general area cockpit microphone .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
As described , it is the flight data recorder time . The <URL> in that Wikipedia article shows it as seconds . I could not find after how much time Flight 593 crashed , but 2400 seconds equal to 40 minutes . An FDR typically records around 90 parameters , and certainly can and does monitor all of them all the time , even when several parameters change within a single second . For the purpose of transcript for this accident , the article on Wikipedia ( which is far less technical and detailed than an NTSB investigation report ) omits all the entries from FDR recordings which are neither relevant to the story , nor interested to the reader . For example , the reader will care less the input from different sensors between 2303 and 2314 . Since the recording time of a CVR ( 30 minutes - 2 hours ) is less than an FDR ( 25 hours ) , they are synchronized for an investigation . This is <URL> , for the investigation of <URL> : The CVR and FDR data were synchronized to one another by comparing the FDR " Key VHF " parameter with radio transmissions as heard on the CVR recording . By comparing the CVR elapsed time ( time since the beginning of the CVR recording ) for radio transmissions to the corresponding FDR Subframe Reference Number ( SRN ) for " Key VHF " , a relationship between the CVR elapsed time and the FDR SRN time can be developed .
This excellent explanation is taken from <URL> in 2006 : FDRs are equipped with an Underwater Locator Beacon ( ULB ) . If you look at a picture of an FDR , you will almost always see a small , cylindrical object attached to one end of the device . If a plane crashes into the water , this beacon sends out an ultrasonic pulse that can not be heard by human ears but is readily detectable by sonar and acoustical locating equipment . There is a submergence sensor on the side of the beacon that looks like a bull 's - eye . When water touches this sensor , it activates the beacon . The beacon sends out pulses at 37.5 kilohertz ( kHz ) and can transmit sound as deep as 14,000 feet ( 4,267 m ) . Once the beacon begins " pinging " , it pings once per second for 30 days . <URL> can now transmit as deep as 20,000 ft. The following table is taken from <URL> on Hydro International about the retrieval of black boxes . It shows the radius you can pick up the signal of a pinger from : Notice that if pingers were replaced with more powerful transponders , the range could be drastically improved ! The article also points out , that in very deep water : under normal conditions , the existing pinger would not be detectable from the surface in depths exceeding 2km
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
Firstly : Flightdeck doors are to the best of my knowledge not hermetically sealed . Secondly : Doors will normally have one of several solutions employed to safely handle explosive decompression : Some doors have panels that pop out to equalise the pressure , especially inwards . Some doors unlock automatically in one or both directions . Needless to say , you need one solution in either direction . Whatever pressure difference there is it will most probably very quickly be equalised and there should not be any difficulty in opening the door if need be .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
Let 's take the best case scenario to start with , and assume that the cruise ground speed of the airliner is around 400kts . For our best case , we also assume that the runway is lined up with the flight path and that the airspace is quiet so the plane is cleared " straight in " with no vectoring for separation or holding patterns . Descent : A typical descent profile would start 100nm out , during which the plane would slow pretty uniformly from around 400kts to around 140kt . This gives an average groundspeed of 270kt . So this 100nm is covered in around 25 minutes rather the 15 minutes at full cruise . The descent has cost us only 10 minutes . Taxi and turnaround : At a smallish ( and well designed ) airport the rollout and taxiing to the stand may only take 5 minutes , plus another 5 to attach the air bridge/stairs and open the door . Passenger and baggage turnaround would typically take around 30 minutes , but you have specifically excluded this in your question so we can ignore it . Then getting departure clearances , startup and taxiing to the active : say another 15 minutes . So this phase has cost more or less 25 minutes . Take off and climb out : Again assuming we 're cleared for immediate take off , it takes around 20 minutes to climb to cruise altitude , at an average ground speed of ( say ) 200 knots . This means we 've covered about 70 miles , which the cruising aircraft would have covered in just over 10 minutes . So this final phase has cost us another 10 minutes . Total for the best case scenario is 45 minutes . Of course the best case is not that likely . If the airspace is busy , holding for another 10 minutes before final approach , and 10 minutes further wait for departure and takeoff clearances , would not be surprising . And if the active runway is in the " wrong " direction or vectoring is needed for traffic or noise reasons , that can easily add another 10 minutes or so . So in the non-best case scenario , a total loss of 1h15 to 1h30 would not be unreasonable .
The engine does n't care how heavy the airplane is ( or how well it is flying ) , but you might . As long as you are cruising around at a particular altitude and power setting , then the engine is going to consume fuel at the same rate . A heavier airplane will require increased lift , which will induce greater drag , and will have a lower forward airspeed as a result of that same power ( assuming it is not so heavy that it prevents you from maintaining altitude ) . If on the other hand you have a particular airspeed you want to maintain , then the power needed for that speed will depend on weight . Lower weight , less power necessary , less fuel flow required to supply the power .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
end question
start question
What are the pros and cons of a pulsejet ?
The pulse jet engine works because it uses the dynamic pressure of air for compression . Consequently , it needs speed to work well . If the pulse jet is on the ground , it is not easy to start - it needs to be fed with compressed air , and once it runs ( it can run even when not moving because the oscillating pressure wave inside the tube will compress the inflowing air ) , it develops litte thrust . Thrust will go up with airspeed , so you need additional thrust sources for initial acceleration and take-off . In case of the V-1 , this was done by a steam catapult or by air-launching the device . Note that the V-1 was accelerated to 370 km/h on a 45 m long catapult which means more than 100 m/s ² ( 10g ) average acceleration . Most of the development work went into making the airframe withstand this acceleration . A modern design would need additional engines as well , and once those are included , the rationale for pulse jets becomes very weak . They make sense if you have an air-launched , disposable application , such as long-range air-to-air missiles . This is a niche in which their higher-speed cousins , the ramjets , <URL> . Pros : Very easy to build , very light . Runs and produces some thrust when at rest ( as opposed to ramjets ) . Cons : Thrust grows with flight speed . This can be seen as a pro , but normally requires additional means of acceleration . Therefore listed as contra here . Low fuel efficiency . The fuel energy is converted to other forms of energy : Just listen to the videos of <URL> to get an idea . High levels of vibration due to the intermittent operation . When the <URL> was tried out with <URL> , the aircraft experienced unacceptable vibration . Need heat-resistant materials . The central part will get very hot in operation , so at least nickel-chrome stainless steel is needed if air cooling is insufficient . Can not go supersonic . For this , there are <URL> . EDIT : NACA tested the As 014 pulse jet and wrote a <URL> , from which the performance data depicted below is taken : It seems that <URL> has improved the pulse jet design a lot : He needs no compressed air for starting and makes clever use of surrounding cold air to increase mass flow and keep material temperatures down .
The dew point is the temperature at which condensation ( a cloud ) forms . If the dew point is the same as the temperature on the ground , then there will be fog . The temperature usually decreases as the altitude increases . This is called the <URL> . In general , the closer the dew point is to the ground temperature , the lower the cloud ceiling will be .
The gulf region is very hot , something that can reduce aircraft performance . The 777-9 is better able to cope with that ( due to the higher thrust from the engines and larger wing area ) .
The T-tail positions the horizontal stabilizer out of the turbulent " prop wash " . This reduces the strength and weight that would be required of the structure if it had to endure the aerodynamic stress behind the two propellers ( which is terrific ) . This simple shape has everything to do with parts and assembly simplicity and low cost for the homebuilder . Drag increases exponentially with speed ; so for slow aircraft , draggy shaped components are much less a problem .
The most important sources of noise in an aircraft ( especially during landing ) are the engines , the slats/flaps and the gear . An aircraft 's angle of descent has an effect on the noise experienced by people below . Steeper the angle , the less time an aircraft spends at low altitudes , which means that fewer people should be affected by higher levels of noise . The reduction in noise ( as <URL> ) due to steeper ( 3.2 $ ^ { \ circ } $ ) landing approaches are due to the following : The aircraft is higher ( compared to the 3 $ ^ { \ circ } $ landing angle ) , and as a result , less noise is heard by the people below . The deployment of flaps before intercept may also be 0.7 nm closer to the airport as the ILS intercept occurs 0.7 nm closer to the airport . Thrust increase for a/c stabilization 0.3 nm closer to the airport ; this results in lower noise . The thrust required was also reportedly lower . Landing gear deployment is 0.4 nm closer to the airport ( at the same height of 2000 ft ) The differences due to changing the glideslope to 3.2 $ ^ { \ circ } $ from the present 3 $ ^ { \ circ } $ is shown in the following image : <URL> Image from Experience with the steeper approach angle of 3.2 degrees - Presentation by DLR As for safety , this system is expected to pose no problems as most aircraft and pilots are easily capable of doing this . As an added measure , the trial is only being carried out when visibility is good ( Cat I ) and the trial is optional ( for aircraft using ILS anyway ) . Some airports ( like London City ) have very steep landing approaches for clearing obstructions and may require special certifications and aircraft modifications .
For a statistical overview of General Aviation accidents I suggest checking out the <URL> prepared by the AOPA Air Safety Institute . Everything I 'm citing below comes from the most recent report ( the 23rd report , covering 2011 ) . The leading causes of accidents in 2011 were : Pilot Error - About 77 % This includes poor flight planning , weather encounters , and a host of other things that we could at least theoretically avoid if we actually did the things we were taught to do in training . Mechanical or Maintenance related - About 13 % This includes engine failures , control system problems , landing gear failures , etc. . The largest chunk of mechanical failures are " powerplant failures " , which account for 38 % of the mechanical failures , or a bit under 5 % of total accidents . Everything Else - About 10 % This includes freak occurrences like a flight instructor " walking into a moving propeller " ( I kid you not , it 's in the report ! ) . A large chunk of these are also engine failure for causes that could not be determined . If we add all the engine/powerplant failures together ( the explainable ones from " Mechanical " plus the unexplained ones from " Everything Else " ) they come out to be 11.5 % of total accidents , and are statistically the number two cause of Non-Commercial General Aviation accidents after " Pilot Error " .
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
For statically stable aircraft , the canard is a spoiler in disguise . It will create a strong downwash right behind itself , coupled with an upwash outward of $ \ pi $ / 4 of its semispan . With changing angle of attack and lift coefficient , the vertical position and the strength of both up - and downwash will change , so the wing incidence variation over wingspan can be made right for just one angle of attack . Pros The force to effect flight path changes works the right way , so pitch response times of canards are slightly better than those of a conventional configuration . The wing can be further aft , so in short business jets the cabin might not interfere with the wing spar . Cons The induced drag at off-design points is higher than that of a comparable conventional configuration . The bigger lifting surface must keep some stall margin , so the total lift coefficient will be smaller than that of a comparable conventional configuration . In the end , a canard will need more wing area . Control surface deflections will add to the already high lift coefficient of the canard plane , increasing lift demands on the surface with the smallest margins . The highest lift coefficient is needed at the surface with the smaller <URL> . Normally , the reverse would be better . If the engines are mounted below and ahead of the wing , they will be hit by the wake of the canard , reducing intake efficiency and <URL> margins . To make sure that the control surface will be the last thing on the plane to run into compressibility problems , it should have less lift coefficient and more sweep than the wing . In the end , a statically stable canard will have a lower cruise Mach number than a comparable conventional configuration . The landing gear must be made to retract into the fuselage , because the wing is too far behind the center of gravity to allow the gear to retract into the wing . I could go on , but I guess you see by now where this is heading ...
A <URL> ( MOU ) is n't an aviation term or practice , it 's a general business/legal term for a ' pre-contract ' of some kind . Before two companies commit to a legally binding and perhaps very expensive contract , they 'll often prepare an MOU to make sure that everyone involved has the same understanding of what will be in the contract . That way , there should n't be any big surprises or fundamental disagreements when the real contract is prepared . In the context of aviation , that could be things like how many aircraft will be purchased and when , or what the price is anticipated to be , or anything else that both side consider important . That means that the information in an MOU could be very interesting for other parties ( " can you explain why our competitors are paying you $ 50m less per aircraft than we do ? " ) , so they 're usually confidential . Another common use for MOUs is for PR/Marketing purposes . If two companies are discussing a joint business venture they might come up with an MOU and use it to generate market interest or even raise capital ( " I know we 're a small company but we have an MOU with Boeing to jointly research alternative fuels " ) . Given that background , I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll get any specific answers to your questions . An MOU could include all the things you mentioned but only a real contract is enforceable .
My experience transitioning from airplanes to helicopters and then to gliders is that I never forget what I 'm flying . I know that sounds obvious , but its no different than the difference between driving a car with automatic transmission and manual , riding a motorcycle which has all the controls in a different place than a car and <URL> , and flying an airplane . I do n't reach for the throttle when I want to slow down in a car , and I do n't turn the wheel in the direction of the turn when I 'm riding a motorcycle . Similarly , when taking off in an airplane , I know I have to add power and pull back a bit to get it off the ground , and in a helicopter I inch the nose forward to gain <URL> . The reason I do n't act/react improperly when flying different aircraft is that it 's all been trained into my muscle memory to do the right thing depending on the circumstances . I do n't think of the horn in a helicopter as a stall horn , just like the buzzer in my alarm clock and smoke alarm are not stall horns . The horn in the heli is a low-rpm horn , and I ease the stick back not forward . Another complication is instrument flight . Although I am an instrument rated airplane pilot , I have a little hood time in a helicopter . I 'm so used to flying pitch and power against the AI that all my instincts under the hood in the heli were completely wrong . Nevertheless , I do n't think I 'll ultimately have any trouble flying instruments well in a heli .
Baggage , yes , landing gear , no . The fuselage of an airliner is typically " capped " by two bulkheads , the forward and aft pressure bulkheads . These are roughly spherical sections that seal the central " cylinder " of the aircraft 's fuselage . Here 's a 787 's forward bulkhead : <URL> ... and a 767 's aft pressure bulkhead : <URL> Practically all the space in the fuselage itself between these two bulkheads is pressurized during high-altitude flight . This includes the baggage compartment . Gear assemblies , however , are typically not pressurized . For some jets like the 737 , this is fairly obvious : <URL> Other designs with full doors for the gear assemblies are n't as obvious , but in general it 's neither feasible nor desirable to pressurize the landing gear housings when airborne .
Both are predefined routes through the air which connect the airport areas ( terminal areas ) to the enroute airway system in a way remotely similar to local roads that everyone follows from and to highways . This ensures ( in theory ) an orderly fashion of after departure reaching ( SID ) and leaving towards the airport ( STAR ) the enroute airspaces for all aircraft . SID stands for <URL> . STAR stands for <URL> . The links touch upon everything else .
&#72; ello - your Friendly Neighborhood Parachute Rigger here . Sport chutes are pretty reliable , have been since the mid 90s to the point where more accidents happen under fully functional canopies . If we disregard rank stupidity like tying the flaps shut1 or incompetent packing we find that the leading cause of malfunctions is bad body position on deployment . You are supposed to be face down , shoulders level before opening the thing . If you are on your back or tumbling you can have various parts wrap around you . High-performance canopies are somewhat more sensitive to the shoulders being level and can open in a decently fast spin . Depending on the spin direction and your altitude you may not be able to recover2 . The emergency chutes are built differently , emphasizing ( obviously ) reliability over being able to land at 100km/h . This means that twisted lines are either recoverable or not an issue . If the jumper is n't paying attention to where he is , you may find that a leading cause of going splat is not using the perfectly good canopy on your back . Automatic activators have more-or-less eliminated this as a common cause3 , but if the jumper thinks that the houses look a bit too big and deploys the main at the same time as the reserve opens they may decide to wrap each other up . Ram-air canopies are like badgers - they do n't like each other very much and having two open at the same time is a rather delicate situation . If we turn to landing accidents , we find that there are all kinds of ways to injure or kill yourself with a fully functional canopy overhead . The aforementioned 100km/h landing speed is no joke - hit an obstacle on the ground going that fast and it 's exactly the same as jumping out of a car on the highway . Buildings , trees , power lines , vehicles , running propellers etc. have all claimed their sacrifices . And do n't try to land on both sides of the fence at the same time . Or in the alligator farm across the road . Mechanical failure of the system is very rare - riggers wo n't pack worn-out reserves , and if they are concerned about someone 's main they will tell the dropzone management who will usually decline to provide services until it 's fixed . Many jumpers will tie various handles to the pack before travelling . Prevents the pack accidentally opening when curious security or customs pick it up by what looks like the carry handle . Remove before Flight ! Happened to me twice - the first time I looked up , then down , decided I did n't have enough time to fix it . The second time it was spinning the other way and I fixed it in 2 seconds . Automatic activators fire at 750-1000 feet . If you are in freefall below that altitude you 're usually done .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
end question
start question
How does an aircraft turn while taxiing ?
Primarily steering is accomplished in two main ways : Steerable nosewheels - Usually limited to tricycle undercarriage , and usually controlled using the same left/right pedals as control the rudder in flight Using the rudder itself - Often associated with the traditional undercarriage ( tail draggers to some ) . In this case the rudder works on the ground in much the same way as it does in the air - ie , deflecting the rudder pushes the tail in the opposite direction , thus causing the nose to pivot in the required direction . In addition , steering can be augmented in two ways Differential braking - often the left and right main undercarriage have their own deferentially controlled brakes . These are usually controlled by " hats " on the top of each rudder pedal . By applying greater braking pressure to , for example , the left wheel will cause the aircraft to pivot more around that wheel causing a left-turning tendency . Differential thrust - in a similar vane to above , greater thrust applied to the left engine will cause a right turning tendency .
The maneuver Bob Hoover is performing is a specific kind of roll called a <URL> . If you look at the path traced by this maneuver it is a corkscrew rather than a linear path that you might be imagining . Because the airplane is rotating about a longitudinal axis as it translates forward there is <URL> toward the axis of rotation , or " up " in the reference frame of the person in the airplane . To the observer in the reference frame of the airplane ( e.g. the pilot or a passenger ) , the centripetal acceleration is interpreted as the fictitious centrifugal force . This is exactly the same mechanism that you experience when driving around tight curves , though the force is in a different direction . The end result in the airplane is that for a properly executed barrel roll , the centripetal acceleration causes the net force you experience inside the airplane to remain constant throughout the roll ( in your reference frame , with the net force pointed " down " ) . If you were to close your eyes you would not know the plane rolled . Likewise , the iced tea does not " know " it is upside down . For a less dramatic demonstration , next time you are on a commercial airplane pay attention to when the plane is banking and turning and note that a cup of water on the tray does n't notice the turn . The cup stays in place and the fluid remains level ( with reference to the airplane ) . You can also demonstrate this with a small bucket and some rope . Put some water in the bucket , tie the rope to the bucket and swing it in a circle vertically ( be careful ) . The water stays in the bucket if you swing it fast enough , and this is the same mechanism you see in Bob Hoover 's video except it is the whole airplane being swung around in a circle like the bucket .
In the US , taxi time can be logged . <URL> says the pilot must log ( emphasis mine ) : Total flight time or lesson time . And <URL> says ( emphasis mine ) : Flight time means : ( 1 ) Pilot time that commences when an aircraft moves under its own power for the purpose of flight and ends when the aircraft comes to rest after landing ; or ( 2 ) For a glider without self-launch capability , pilot time that commences when the glider is towed for the purpose of flight and ends when the glider comes to rest after landing . Note that in reality , general aviation pilots ( I do n't know about airline pilots ) usually just log whatever is on the <URL> , which may include some time sitting still on the ramp doing post-startup checks , setting up avionics etc. . That might not be strictly correct per the regulations , but absolutely no one cares . <URL> is closely related .
Some aircraft may have a special " ETOPS APU " that can be purchased , but many aircraft simply have THE APU that they come with . It is maintained to the standards required in the approved ETOPS program , and is either run during the ETOPS portion of the flight , or else has some means to ensure that it will reliably start even when cold-soaked . ( For instance , at least one ETOPS program requires that the APU be started shortly before the top-of-descent on enough flights to " prove " that it does , in fact , start up reliably even in a worst-case cold-soaked scenario . ) Most ( perhaps all ) APU 's in aircraft currently in production have the general capability of being started in flight , so that particular aspect of things is n't unique to the ETOPS world . Documenting the reliability of the APU is a uniquely ETOPS thing , but so much of ETOPS is about exactly that : demonstrating and documenting just how reliable the hardware is . It often is n't different hardware , but the same equipment as in a non-ETOPS aircraft , but maintained &amp; tracked to higher standards .
The <URL> ( the parent airplane to the 330 ) : The Extra 300 is stressed for ± 10 G with one person on board and ± 8 G with two So it is certainly possible from an airplane perspective that you pulled that many Gs - in an aerobatic airplane , it 's not unheard of to pull 1G less than the aircraft limit ( usually there is a large margin of safety built into that number before a catastrophic structural failure ) . Now did you pull 7Gs ? As others have noted , 7Gs for 10-20 seconds seems very unlikely . But it is not out of the question your peak instantaneous G load was 7 . From a human factor standpoint , G-suits typically do n't increase the max G-load , but rather <URL> and the time period it can be held for . G-suits do very little to actually decrease blood flow ( pooling in the legs ) - they primarily serve as a reminder to the pilot to perform an AGSM . A g-suit does not so much increase the g-threshold , but makes it possible to sustain high g longer without excessive physical fatigue . The resting g-tolerance of a typical person is anywhere from 3-5 g depending on the person . A g-suit will typically add 1 g of tolerance to that limit . Now there are a vast array of factors affecting this resting G-tolerance . I flew a military high-performance trainer , and my resting G-tolerance was around 3 , or the lower end of the spectrum . One of the other pilots I knew had a resting G-tolerance of about 7.5 . The primary difference is blood pressure . I am 5 ' 10 " and only 145 pounds , with a resting blood pressure of about 90/60-100 / 70 . He was 6 ' 0 " and about 215 pounds , with a much higher blood pressure . Tall , skinny , nonsmoking runners have actually the worst resting G-tolerance while short , stocky , sedentary or heavily muscled smokers have much higher tolerance . Other factors , such as how hydrated and rested you are and how much stress you are feeling , can vary vastly your daily G-tolerance . All of those numbers I just listed do not take into account the pilot performing an AGSM ( Anti-G Straining Maneuver ) . This can add several Gs to the pilot 's tolerance , and is one of the biggest things taught in physiological training for high-G maneuvers . So TL ; DR : could you have pulled 7Gs without prior exposure ? It is possible , depending on varying personal factors and body type , but it is not likely . However , with a little training , 7Gs is perfectly attainable .
Actually , a similar concept was tested by the USAF in the 50s ( like most things in aviation , it seems ) . Under the name of Project Tom Tom , the military was looking into the possibility of coupling a parasite fighter ( an F-84 in this instance ) to a B-36 as a long-distance escort as it flew into the Soviet Union by joining the two aircraft together at the wingtips . Flying as such , the F-84 would actually power down its engines during coupled flight and could receive fuel from the B-36 . However , the aspect with greater relevance to the question is that the B-36 would actually derive an aerodynamic benefit from this arrangment as well . In theory , the combined aircraft would also benefit from having an artificially elongated wing as well , and , while I remember reading last year that this actually did result in superior fuel efficiency for the combined aircraft during cruise , I am at a loss to find that source right now . At any rate , with respect to this question , the B-36 effectively docked with a pair of " wing extensions " ( in this case , a pair of F-84s ) while in flight and derived a benefit in cruise . A video of the concept can be found here : . Also , more reading can be found in this text Flying Aircraft Carriers of the USAF : Wing Tip Coupling by Brian Lockett . Naturally , there were significant downsides to this idea . While the F-84 actually did manage to engage the coupling mechanism on the B-36 on test flights , logging at least a couple hours of continuous , coupled flight , significant stability and safety issues were uncovered during testing that led to the scrapping of the project . As noted in a quote from <URL> : The wing-tip coupling mechanism as developed and flight tested in the Tom-Tom program is not considered satisfactory for tactical use and was barely acceptable for test flying . It appeared that a new difficulty and a now shortcoming were uncovered on virtually every test flight . The extent of rework necessary before the coupling mechanisms as designed were acceptable as flight test articles is covered under the DESIGN section of this report . Similarly , issues with aeroelasticity turned out to be a much larger issue than originally expected ( in part because of the change pitching/heaving forces as well as wing mass distribution and stiffness at the joint ) . I think that Aurora Flight Sciences ran into similar issues when they were <URL> ... the idea was to join multiple vehicles ( that were essentially flying wings ) to create a super-efficient , high-altitude , solar-powered , surveillance aircraft . Due to conflicting requirements on wing structure and aircraft weight , I think that ultimately did n't fly ... but I do n't have any of the details for that . Just what I remember from a presentation I saw many years ago . At any rate , I guess that my answer is : yes , it could . But it is VERY difficult and dangerous to do ( at present ) .
The gliding slope , which equals $ D/L $ , does not change with weight . Hence , starting from a given height $ h $ , the longest gliding distance will be $ d = h \ cdot max ( L/D ) = h \ cdot max ( C_L / C_D ) $ , i.e. , independent of weight . However , the gliding speed , and , consequently , the gliding time , do change with weight , and significantly . If $ C _ { L , max } $ is the lift coefficient when $ C_L / C_D $ is maximal , the gliding speed at best slope , $ \ bar { V } $ , is obtained from $ W = ( 1/2 ) \ cdot rho \ cdot \ bar { V } ^ 2 \ cdot S _ { ref } \ cdot C _ { L , max } $ .
I 've downvoted the answer from Habu because it ignores a major difference in engine design . For small GA planes , the Lycoming engines have the carburetor bolted to the bottom of the crankcase where it gets some heat from the hot oil . Fuel/air exits the top of the carb where it is routed through pipes inside the crankcase where the hot oil further increases its temperature . This makes the Lyc generally resistant to induction icing . In Continentals , the updraft carburetor is not mounted on the hot crankcase but on part of the manifold assembly , insulating the carb itself from the heat of the crankcase , and the fuel/air mixture is routed directly to the intake manifold and not through the engine crankcase which holds the hot oil . The result is that the TCM O-300 engine has earned the reputation of being an icemaker . The difference in the POH instructions as to how to fly each engine is directly attributable to engine design and it has absolutely nothing to do with the weather in Vero Beach versus Wichita . I 'm going to post line drawing images of the two engines to illustrate the point . First : Lycoming . Second : Continental What the original poster is missing is that for most of its history , the Cessna design used Continental engines . Now that it has switched to Lycoming engines , the difference in the engines is probably zero , but they have not abandoned the former POH instructions as that might be confusing to the pilots that fly these planes . After all , using carb heat more often as a default procedure for the Lyc powered Cessnas is a safe procedure .
This depends on the type of radar system and its intended application . <URL> . The early radars could not tell the difference between aircraft types , any kind of movement was coordinated beforehand on the friendly side and anything that was not pre-arranged was considered foe . The early <URL> that resided on the <URL> could be trigger by as little as a dense flock of birds . The early radar data from the <URL> was processed on the <URL> a very early ( very primitive ) system for coordinating a great deal of weather , radar , and flight information . After WWII and through out the cold war era newer tech was built to solve the issue of coordination . The modern <URL> that is now in use provides at least some way to pick apart radar targets . With the advent of modern computer processing and the ability to analyze radar returns beyond <URL> it is possible to determine ( with great certainty ) the make of an aircraft by its <URL> ( and in some cases thermal signature ) . Also known as <URL> . Everything ( <URL> ) have a radar cross section and once a cross section has been identified it could be used again to check against future pings . One could go as far as to say there is some historical precedent around this . The general idea of " if it comes from over there is one of them , if it comes from over hear its one of us " is very much how <URL> and the identification of the actual plane was less important than identifying that it was there . If an unidentified target entered a radar area and did not identify its self , over the radio , with some kind of transponder and or at a preordained time it was intercepted . Not until visual identification was made was it not longer considered a threat . Here in the states by 2020 the civilian world will be sending <URL> to supplement ( and potentially replace ) radar returns .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
No . You do not need to create new airways . You stick up to the already existent waypoints or not , if the route flies through a segment of free-route airspace . Also , the engineering department of the airline studies the route , for instance : computes the MSA ( Minimum Safe Altitude ) for every point , engine failure and depressurization simulations are done in order to avoid possible hazards in critical points , if the aircraft is ETOPS certified they will decide which alternative airports are available for the route , fuel computations , chart generation for arrival and departure ( most of the airlines use their own charts instead of those provided by the ANSP ) , et cetera . Each airline has its own policy and the process may vary but fundamentally the procedure done is to make a study of all the parameters that can affect to guarantee safety and efficiency .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
Ground speed Real time wind components were not available to the pilots . They would n't have been able to tell the ground speed . Especially over the English Channel on a calm or foggy day where a <URL> is not very useful ( if equipped ) . [ A drift meter ] indicates the aircraft 's drift angle due to winds aloft , and can be used to calculate the ground speed . If they flew at an agreed true airspeed , then the controllers would n't have been able to tell that true airspeed . Early IFF Looking into the history of <URL> and <URL> , it 's apparent from early on radio IFF was used . It started with the <URL> system . Mistaken identity In the <URL> a radar issue caused a friendly fire incident where returning British fighters were attacked . According to Wikipedia , as of 2010 the final report has not been declassified yet . Another one was the <URL> , the Germans thought there was an air raid en-route , they launched fighters , only to mistake their fighters for the raid , only to send more fighters , etc. . And there was no raid , just the Americans were returning from a bombing mission and judging their direction of flight aurally led to this confusion . The German fighters started to run out of fuel and landed . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . Navigation Wind and ground speed aside , if we say it was a certain route combined with speed , that would require a level of <URL> that just was n't there in WWII . Logistics Logistically , when an operation is launched , the air command has an idea of when to expect its return . Speeds Comparing the <URL> with the <URL> , the German Fw 190 was faster . 426 mph compared to 370 mph . As for slow speeds , slow flying on the return leg is just calling for the surviving planes to be caught up with and shot down . I 'm calling it myth busted .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
Because <URL> Seriously though , the manifold pressure measures how much the engine is able to reduce the pressure between throttle and inlet valve by sucking air into the cylinder . When you apply carb heat the air gets routed over a heat exchanger that uses some of the excess heat from the exhaust system to heat up the intake air , however the reason it becomes less dense , is because the pressure stays the same . If you look at the so called ideal gas law , you 'll notice that pressure is a function of density and temperature , if you have a closed system , where the density can not change , increasing the temperature would indeed increase pressure . This is not a closed system however , so the pressure actually stays more or less the same and the density decreases , and it 's not the reason for the manifold pressure increase . The thinner air leaves the engine with less oxygen to burn and thus it produces less power , the RPM drops , causing the engine to " suck " less air into the cylinder , this gives the air more time to sneak passed the throttle , and the manifold pressure rises . For the same reason the manifold pressure rises ( slightly ) when you reduce the RPM for cruise . Any reduction in RPM , for whatever reason -- engine damage for example -- as long as the throttle does n't move ( or if you have carb ice , which has essentially the same effect as closing the throttle ) , your manifold pressure will actually rise . Remember , it seems counter-intuitive , but the engine is fighting a battle with the throttle , trying to keep the manifold pressure down by sucking the air out , while the throttle is trying to increase the pressure back to atmospheric by letting air in . When the throttle is anything but wide open , the situation looks like this ( image borrowed from the linked article ) <URL> It 's related to the fact that the manifold pressure gauge , when the engine is stopped , will read ambient pressure , i.e. 29.92 inHg on a standard day at sea level , which is usually interpreted as " full throttle " , it does n't matter how the throttle is positioned . So it 's not really showing how much fuel/air mix you 're shoving into the engine . In fact , we 're not shoving at all , the engine literally sucks it into the cylinder as the piston moves out of the way during the intake stroke . In this particular case with the engine off , it just means that enough air was able to sneak by the throttle and equalize the pressure . It is not flowing nearly fast enough to equalize the pressure as soon as the engine is running though .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
This is related to an answer I gave <URL> about why aircraft typically do not have mirrors and external cameras . Short answer : yes aircraft do have sensors to detect damage , but not the kind of damage you 're talking about . Long answer : to design or decide what sensors to put on the aircraft and where , we have to get started with failure modes . There are at least a million way for components to fail , however , some failure are more likely to occur than others . Do we have sensors which detect failures / abnormal situations ? We do ! We have sensors for control surfaces , hydraulics , gears , tire pressure , cabin pressure , engine temperature , oil pressure etc. . Here is an image of one of the cockpit screens on a Boeing : <URL> ( <URL> ) OK , so why not more sensors ? Because sensors can fail . Now that would be a nightmare to troubleshoot : the sensor says the right outer landing light is not illuminated . Is that true ? Let me exit the aircraft and take a look ... . It turns out that : Many failure modes are " internal " , e.g. a valve malfunctioning . They are invisible on the exterior of an aircraft . Aircraft rarely collide with any other objects . Relying on visual indication is actually a good thing , because it is reliable and it 's free . Building an array of sensors covering each skin on the aircraft would be extremely complex , the construction cost would be high and the system would be heavy . Sensors are just another component of the system . The more sensors , the more likely something will fail . At some point one has to trust the underlying component to function without relying on system indications . Perhaps this is the kind of system you have in mind : <URL> ( Screenshot of " Stealth " ( 2005 ) , 01:01:11 ) Nah , that 's just Hollywood artistic license .
Primarily steering is accomplished in two main ways : Steerable nosewheels - Usually limited to tricycle undercarriage , and usually controlled using the same left/right pedals as control the rudder in flight Using the rudder itself - Often associated with the traditional undercarriage ( tail draggers to some ) . In this case the rudder works on the ground in much the same way as it does in the air - ie , deflecting the rudder pushes the tail in the opposite direction , thus causing the nose to pivot in the required direction . In addition , steering can be augmented in two ways Differential braking - often the left and right main undercarriage have their own deferentially controlled brakes . These are usually controlled by " hats " on the top of each rudder pedal . By applying greater braking pressure to , for example , the left wheel will cause the aircraft to pivot more around that wheel causing a left-turning tendency . Differential thrust - in a similar vane to above , greater thrust applied to the left engine will cause a right turning tendency .
end question
start question
When is the descent clearance requested from ATC ?
Whether there are any formal policies for when to request descent will depend on the airline . However , I doubt formal procedures are established , since it should be pretty obvious to pilots when to request descent . From a controller point of view , I will expect you to request descent when you are ready for it - so a minute or so before reaching your top of descent point . Controllers are able to estimate when you are going to request descent , based on experience , known level restrictions and typical aircraft performance . Controllers who have been working the same sector for a few years will be able to tell pretty much exactly when a certain flight is going to request descend , based on the current wind , runway in use , airline and aircraft type . What this means to you , as a pilot , is that you can expect the controller to be ready for your request ; You can normally expect to receive a clearance for descent immediately after requesting it - so there is no reason to request it several minutes in advance . Very few pilots will request descent several minutes before ToD . If they do , I can - if traffic flow permits - use the phrase " When ready descent to FL160 " . You are then free to start your descent when passing the ToD . Honestly though , if you call me up and say " Request descent in 5 minutes " , I will most likely just reply with " Roger , call me back when ready for descent " . The traffic situation can change significantly in 5 minutes , so I do n't want to issue a clearance that may not fit into the future traffic picture . In the end , the early request just costs time on the frequency , which can be a scarce resource in a busy sector . Moral of the story : as a controller , I know my airspace very well , and I have a pretty good idea of when you are going to be ready for descent . Because of this , there is no reason to request descent before you are ready for it . If you do , it will not matter at best , and be slightly annoying at worst . ATC can of course also descend you before your ToD for various reasons , but that is another discussion .
You report unable , and ATC will come up with a different plan . To provide some context : If I ask you to expedite a vertical manoeuvre , it is probably because you are on crossing tracks with another aircraft , and I want you to pass them either above or below . This could be to meet certain level restrictions , or simply because I want to provide you with continuous climb/descend as a service . At your current rate , you will probably pass them , bot not quite with the 1000 ft vertical separation I need . Because you are so close to fitting into my plan , asking you to expedite is the easiest - it requires the least effort from me , and I wo n't have to vector you around , giving you a longer than needed flight path . If you respond with unable , I have other options to choose from , depending on the situation . Typically I would either instruct you to level off or turn . If you are descending through FL160 and I wanted you to go below someone at FL130 , I would simply instruct you to level off at FL140 , and then descend you further when you are clear , which would only take a few minutes . I could use the phrase " Stop descend FL140 , expect further descend in 3 minutes " , in which case you could adjust your vertical rate so that you reach FL140 about 3 minutes in the future , resulting in a smooth descend . Alternatively , a turn of 20-30 degrees is often enough to establish lateral separation , which then allows you to descend unrestricted . 3 or 4 minutes later , when you have passed the other traffic , you will be turned back on your track . The key thing here is communication . As an air traffic controller , when I instruct you to do something , do n't think that I do n't have backup plans . We are taught to always evaluate situations thoroughly , and come up with 2-3 different solutions to every problem or situation we face . I will start by presenting the easiest solution to you , but if that does n't work for you , please do n't be afraid of informing me - I will then simply choose another solution , and adjust my plan accordingly . And remember , air traffic control is a service . We are here to make your life easier - not the other way around . You can help us doing so by communicating clearly and in due time .
ATC is , broadly speaking , required to ensure that pilots hear , understand , and acknowledge information that is delivered . The way they do that is via read-backs , and although the AIM mentions a few of the things that are required it 's a good idea to read back anything that 's important ( If you 're not sure , err on the side of " It 's important " ) , with your aircraft callsign ( No callsign ? Does n't count ! ) . What are some important things controllers usually expect you to read back ? Clearances ( headings , vectors , altitudes , transponder codes , and radio frequencies ) . Like the AIM says , mutual verification . Runway assignments , hold short instructions , line-up-and-wait , and takeoff clearances . Taxi routes Instructions , ESPECIALLY runway crossings &amp; hold-short instructions . Wake Turbulence advisories . Traffic point-outs . The magic words here , by the by , are " Negative Contact " and " Traffic In Sight " . I think if you say " Tally Ho ! " you 're required to buy everyone on the frequency a bottle of 30-year-old scotch . Instructions to " Maintain visual separation with " some traffic ATC is handing off collision avoidance responsibility to you as the pilot . They need to hear " Will maintain visual separation with " the traffic in question . They also need you to tell them if you lose visual contact . Airport Point-Outs ( Especially if there are several airports close to each other ) You can also pre-empt this by calling the controller : " Cessna 12345 has Podunk Municipal in sight " , possibly with a bearing and approximate distance . Landing Clearances If you 're in a busy pattern and they give you a sequence ( " Number 3 , cleared to land " ) they want to hear that part too . That altimeter setting you get after a handoff . ( I blame <URL> for getting me into this habit , but it IS a good one unless the frequency is crazy ) This list is by no means exhaustive , but it 's most of the big stuff .
The theoretical answer to your question is that you can always get an IFR clearance directly from ATC over the radio , and filing a flight plan in advance is n't required ( but it is strongly advised to avoid delays ) . In reality , however , you should file in advance if at all possible . This is from the <URL> ( my emphasis ) : Instrument flight plans may be submitted to the nearest FSS or ATCT either in person or by telephone ( or by radio if no other means are available ) . Pilots should file IFR flight plans at least 30 minutes prior to estimated time of departure to preclude possible delay in receiving a departure clearance from ATC . The IFR flight plan system is there for good reasons : it helps ATC manage busy airspace and it avoids the need for lengthy radio discussions . If you do n't file a flight plan in advance then you 'll probably annoy ATC and you may be delayed because they ca n't take your request directly . Pop-up clearances by definition do n't have a full flight plan filed in advance , but they do have an <URL> : An authorization by ATC requiring pilots to submit only that information needed for the purpose of ATC . It includes only a small portion of the usual IFR flight plan information . In certain instances , this may be only aircraft identification , location , and pilot request . Other information may be requested if needed by ATC for separation/control purposes . It is frequently used by aircraft which are airborne and desire an instrument approach or by aircraft which are on the ground and desire a climb to VFR-on-top . Weather is n't predictable and a VFR flight may have to become IFR for safety reasons , so there needs to be some flexibility for aircraft that are actually in the air . A pop-up clearance is just a different , simpler way of requesting an IFR clearance ; once you have it , you 're IFR and operating in exactly the same way that you would if you had filed in advance . Descending to VFR conditions is an interesting idea but ATC ca n't clear you to descend below the minimum IFR altitude for the area . You could request the lowest altitude ATC can give you , then cancel IFR if you break out . But descending without a specific altitude restriction seems very risky : the temptation would be to keep going lower to " have a look " , and that could end up as a <URL> . Finally , at least in my experience the 30-minute ' rule ' is really a guideline to avoid delays . I 've never had an issue filing IFR and departing 15 minutes later , but then I 'm usually flying between class C or D airports and the airspace is n't particularly busy . A class B airport is probably a different story .
There are a couple of options for you . Carlos ' answer above is absolutely correct . The FARs are helpful , as is AC 90-66A . You should take a look at both of those . AC 90-66A is informative , but not regulatory , and Part 91.113 , 91.126 are regulatory but not particularly informative . 91.103 says you have to know everything about everything , which is true , but again , not helpful . First the rules : Be safe , be alert and then proceed . FAR 91.113 ( c ) governs your low fuel question . If you are below minimum fuel , and are in distress you have the right of way . There is a difference between a fuel emergency , which is " I 'm going to run out of gas unless I land now " and a minimum fuel advisory/situation which means , I got just enough gas to get where I 'm going and get myself safely on the ground . If your fuel status is in doubt , it 's an emergency . Better to fill out that paperwork than the NTSB paperwork . The other pertinent part of 91.113 is Aircraft , while on final approach to land or while landing have the right-of-way over other aircraft in flight or operating on the surface , except that they shall not take advantage of this rule to force an aircraft off the runway surface ... So , this means that the airplane on the final segment does have the right of way , over everybody but the emergency , but ca n't abuse the privilege . So , if someone wants to disrupt a busy pattern with a long straight in final , it 's legal , and traffic in the circuit do have to give way and turn the base behind him . Next , FAR 91.126 ( b ) ( 1 ) which says all turns shall be left hand in the traffic pattern , so plan left traffic unless the AFD ( US ) advises the traffic pattern is right hand turns . AC 90-66A tells us to play nice in the pattern . " It says Landing and takeoff should be accomplished on the operating runway most nearly aligned into the wind . However , if a secondary runway is used , pilots using the secondary runway should avoid the flow of traffic to the runway most nearly aligned into the wind . " ( AC90-66A 8 . Recommended Standard Traffic Pattern , ( f ) ) . 8 a. of the AC states , " Prior to entering the traffic pattern at an airport without an operating control tower , aircraft should avoid the flow of traffic until established on the entry leg . " I have seen pilots arrive at an airport with a busy stream of departures call and declare they were landing on the opposite direction of the departure runway . They only have the right of way , if they are on final , but it does n't strike me as a a nice thing ( or safe thing ) to do . In a busy pattern , it is generally best to follow the AIM recommendations in the US , which is , unless otherwise noted , cross overhead the field and plan a 45 degree left downwind entry to join the traffic flow , watching traffic for spacing . If in doubt , break off and try again . Announce your intentions and position on the CTAF at all times , but be vigilant , as there may be some airplanes that do not have radios . Which also means they will not be seen on TCAS/ADS-B or whatever . It 's probably a good idea to get an ads-b in receiver if you do n't have one . There 's a homebrew one based on a raspberry pi that can be put together cheaply and mostly works . Do n't assume it will see all airplanes at all times . Finally , once in the pattern go with the flow . If the pattern is too full for your comfort , the general rule is to remain at least 500 ft above the pattern altitude and move away from the flow of traffic , but there may be others doing the same , so watch and listen . Depending on the situation , you might want to divert to an alternate , nearby airport , buy some gas aand hope the pattern traffic is more to your liking when you come back . Turn your base only after the next airplane in line has crossed abeam you and adjust your pattern accordingly . You might want to practice with an instructor who has some experience in high density traffic areas before you go on your own .
I work as a fixed-wing pilot for a hospital-based Air Ambulance program . Let me add my experience to the ATC orders accurately cited by Pondlife 's answer : the <URL> call sign ( the old " Lifeguard " is still used when filing the flight plan ) indicates a need for priority handling . ATC is often helpful in providing us with priority routing . This includes giving us direct clearances , moving us up in the landing que , allowing us an unrestricted approach speed , and otherwise expediting our flight . However , ATC does not always provide priority handling , and I have often experienced ground delays of 5-10 + minutes as ATC apparently prioritizes other traffic , including air cargo and the like . This is rarely a big problem as patients are typically stable , but it can be frustrating when priority handling is expected . However , if medical staff determine that a patient is in critical condition , we will announce this to ATC -- typically accompanied by a request for a specific clearance or change to a previous clearance . This announcement re-iterates our need for priority handling and indicates the urgency of the situation . In this way we can work with ATC to best care for the patient . We will often make such an announcement when checking on with approach control for their information with no specific accompanying request . Occasionally , however , we will need to request such priority handling because ATC has issued us speed restrictions or delaying vectors to put us behind other traffic . ATC is very good at working with us when we do need the priority handling . In other words , ATC usually automatically gives us priority handling , but when they do n't -- and we need it -- we ask for it and they are very good at working with us to provide the priority handling .
You can descend down to 100ft above TDZE if you have any ALS in sight . You need an ALS with red lights ( ALSF I &amp; II ) to go below that . Red terminating bars/red side row bars help you find the threshold . Think of an ALS with red lights as being in the same category as Runway/lights/markings , Threashold/lights/markings , Touchdown Zone/lights/markings , VASI/PAPI , and REIL . Any other type of ALS ( MALSR , MALSF , etc. ) has the 100ft above TDZE restriction put on it when it is the only thing you can see . @mins linked to a couple of helpful articles in the comments .
Yes , and it is exactly the same : Say again . Station calling Georgetown Ground say again your callsign Lufthansa 123 say again speed Scandinavian 123 say again all after ' good morning ' Or simply United 345 say again
Apparently yes . It has been mentioned in a number of places . <URL> is pretty simple : Step 1 : Approach locked lavatory Step 2 : Lift " LAVATORY " sign Step 3 : Slide the knob into the unlocked position Thats all to it , though they may vary with the aircraft . As @RalphJ points out in the comments , it should go without saying that unless you are cabin crew , you should not be doing this .
No , the air traffic controller can not see the whether the autopilot is used or not . However , in the Mode S radar and ADS-B protocols there are messages defined that contain state of the autopilot . Currently there is no requirement that this data is provided by the aircraft , but some aircraft/transponders do provide the information nevertheless . The data is not displayed to the controller though . In some control centres the aircraft 's Mode Control Panel / Flight Control Unit Selected Altitude can be displayed to the air traffic controller . The information can be used to reduce Level Busts . From observations of the radar track it is difficult to tell . A competent pilot will be able to maintain altitude and heading in such a way that it is difficult to see the difference from an autopilot at the resolution of the ATC display . There are circumstances where the pilot is required to use the autopilot , especially to keep separation from other aircraft . In Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) airspace the vertical separation is 1000 ft between Flight Level 290 and FL410 . The aircraft must be flown using the autopilot in this airspace to ensure the flight levels are adhered to strictly .
As a plane climbs out , the cabin pressure lowers so that it equals the same pressure as being at about 5,000 feet , the altitude of Denver . What happens inside your ear is that the pressure in the middle ear reduces to match the 5,000 foot cabin pressure , and you might sometime feel your ears " pop , " just like going up in an elevator in a tall building . When the plane descends , the pressure in your middle ear will still be at 5,000 feet , but the pressure in the cabin will go down to sea level ( 0 feet ) , and you will feel this pressure on your eardrum , which can cause a lot of discomfort until the pressure equalizes . The pressure equalizes as air enters the <URL> tubes , which connect your middle ear to your nose and throat . The tube , however , is very narrow and can be blocked by inflammation or mucus due to a cold or other illness , and you wo n't be able to equalize the pressure . Flying with a cold can be very painful during descent . The amount of discomfort each passenger experiences is going to vary widely , even from flight-to-flight . For example , if the cabin altitude is 5,000 ft and the destination is Denver , then the cabin will not have to further pressurize . Some other factors are individual physiology ( some people will have bigger eustachian tubes than others ) , illness , ethnicity/gender/gift-of-gab ( some are more prone to talking than others , and talking can relieve the pressure ) , etc. . As a pilot , there are two things you can do : buy a plane with a lower cabin altitude . I recommend the Gulfstream 650 , which has a cabin pressure of 2,765 ft at an altitude of 41,000 MSL reduce the rates of your descents , which will give your ears a chance to equalize . ATC , however , <URL> , unless you are given " AT PILOTS DISCRETION . " There are a few different ways to equalize the pressure . The most effective is the <URL> , which is how some scuba divers equalize the pressure as they descend into the water . Alternatively , yawning , chewing gum , sucking on hard candy , or hyperextending your jaw may help . Little children are particularly susceptible to discomfort , and parents will give them gum or candy at the beginning of the descent .
Either C or D controllers will likely accept your requested heading , which can be given as a rough compass point , on initial contact . This contact will be after picking up the terminal info on ATIS , when you contact ground . Your preferred direction will be passed up the chain . A class D may tell you something like " cleared for takeoff , Northbound departure approved " , in which case I would feel free to turn as soon as I deemed it safe . In a class C scenario , the same thing could happen , but they might vector you around other traffic . In all cases " resume own navigation " will be permission to take your heading . If you are still on runway heading and feel you have not been given a clearance sending you where you want to go , you may contact tower or departure control , depending on whom you are with , and say something like " Tower , Diamond two-eight bravo , request heading zero six zero " They may respond with an " approved as requested " or " heading zero six zero approved " or they may give you instructions to " fly present heading , I 'll call your turn " indicating they are not ready for you to take your heading yet . The short answer is , you can take your heading when you have been cleared to do so . Understanding when you have been cleared is a matter of becoming familiar with standard phraseology . Controllers I have worked with , especially at C and D airspaces have been accommodating . Their job is to send pilots where they want to go while keeping aircraft out of each other 's way . They have rolled along with me when I have changed my mind about landing , I can say " I changed my mind , I 'd rather depart the pattern to the south " but to be brief I 'll say " Cancel landing intention , request south departure . " As airspace gets bigger and controllers are busier ( which can vary by location and even time of day ) brevity becomes increasingly important . To get practice , you can find out when an particular airspace is less busy . Controllers have been known to be chatty when traffic volume is low , and you may even be able to ask questions about preferred phraseology .
If an invalid signal is received , then it must be modulated since it is only by measuring the modulation , that the receiver knows if the signal is valid and where it is relative to the localiser and glideslope . An unmodulated carrier on the same frequency is additive . An unmodulated carrier on a different frequency will not affect the receiver ( ignoring possible harmonics of course ) . I suppose that if you could increase the power enough , an unmodulated signal might cause the signal to noise ratio to drop so low that the failure flag would show .
Yes it 's a viable option , but it must be approved by the manufacturer . Lowering V1 requires lowering the thrust as well . Because high thrust at a slow V1 means the rudder wo n't have enough control to counter the thrust asymmetry when an engine fails . Low thrust equals low Vmcg , which can be the lower-limiting factor for the V1 . This reduced thrust setting ( derate ) ca n't be overridden in case an engine quits . It works for short runways and contaminated runways and may allow higher MTOW , see here : <URL> <URL> Another trick is the opposite : to increase the V-speeds ( again , must be approved ) . It 's called " improved climb " . This only works if the limiting weight is the climb limit ( not the field limit ) . By increasing the V-speeds you get a better climb gradient for the same flap and thrust setting , i.e. , there can be two sets of V-speeds for one flap setting , e.g. , Flap 15 , and Flap 15 Improved . <URL> ( <URL> ) RE : Is it really the case that a runway length does not affect V1 ? Runway length affects V1 only indirectly and not always . In the takeoff performance calculation there is n't a graph or table to lookup that links length to V1 . Headwind , cold weather , and high ambient pressure are some of the factors that make a runway longer than it actually is ( performance wise ) . The first step in performance planning is calculating the corrected length . From there there are three limiting weights : field , climb , and obstacle clearing . The lowest of the three will be the limiting weight of the day . If the takeoff weight will be lighter than the lowest , then reduced thrust can be used to save on engine wear , for example . Once the weight is known , then the V-speeds are checked . If the weight is between the climb and field limits , then the aforementioned improved climb calculation can be used ( if approved ) . Likewise for the field limit and using derate . In other words , the corrected length only affects one of the three weights : the field limit weight . Which may not be the limiting factor . If it is the limiting weight , then yes length affects V1 , but it usually is n't for the big transport planes .
There is one example in the AIM used for transitioning from VFR to IFR , and it how I 've always done it : AIM 5-2-5 . Abbreviated IFR Departure Clearance ( Cleared & hellip ; as Filed ) Procedures EXAMPLE - " Los Angeles center , Apache Six One Papa , VFR estimating Paso Robles VOR at three two , one thousand five hundred , request IFR to Bakersfield . " Reference : <URL> ( 13 MB PDF ) Notice that they specifically say " VFR " right before their current location and also use the word " request " to make it clear what they are looking for . I would change your request to : Tampa Approach , Cirrus 123AB , VFR 5 miles southeast of Tampa Exec at 1000 feet , request IFR to Ft. Lauderdale Exec
The only direction a ( fixed wing ) aircraft can move using the flight controls is forward . So , it is the forward visibility that is important . The front of the aircraft is the best place for this purpose . The limited visibility in other cases are reasonably over come by using extra cameras or <URL> and markings in the ground . The Airbus A80 , for example , has three cameras , one each in the nose , belly and the tail , which can be viewed in the screen by the pilot . <URL> Source : onemileatatime.boardingarea.com The closest any aircraft has come to be flown using a VR headset is the AN/AAQ -37 electro-optical Distributed Aperture System ( DAS ) which is being used in the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II . The EO/DAS consists of six high resolution Infrared sensors flush-mounted around the aircraft to afford 360-degree , spherical ( 4 $ \ pi $ steradian ) coverage , basically <URL> . <URL> Source : alternathistory.org.ua Each of these sensors collect data in different directions and the on-board computer ' stitches together ' these images ( and data from EOTS and Radar ) and projects them onto the pilot 's Helmet Mounted Display System ( HMDS ) , making it the only modern combat aircraft without a HUD . <URL> Source : brucesterling.tumblr.com However , there are issues with using these in a commercial airliner : They are costly - around $ 400,000 ( <URL> ) apiece and non-interchangeable ; while this ( situation awareness ) could be priceless in combat scenarios , I do n't see commercial airliners shelling out this amount of money to replace a system that works pretty well . The amount of computing power required is enormous . Reportedly , the DAS system collects about a terabyte of data per hour . For aircraft which fly most of their time in a predetermined altitude and heading , this amount of data flow and computing power is not required . Note that the system is not yet fully operational . There are <URL> like latency , ' green ' glow , jittery image , resolution issues etc. - reportedly solved , though some pilots say they <URL> .
If I 'm flying along in my C-152 and I am trying to go in a straight line through the " center " of C airspace , but the controller tells me to remain clear , what should I do ? Well , the obvious answer is remain clear of the Class C airspace :-) HOW you remain clear is entirely up to you - you can go over , under , or around - you just ca n't go through , and I think that 's the more interesting part of your question . Flying around the class C airspace is usually a safe choice ( do n't skim along the margins though - give it some reasonable breathing room ) , but as you 've noted it could add a lot of time/fuel . You need to balance that with the time/fuel required to climb above the airspace , or the risks of flying under the airspace ( mainly obstacles ) to make your decision . I 'm going to use my local class C airspace as an example for an exercise in aeronautical decision making because conveniently there 's a VOR you could hypothetically be circling while talking to approach , and an airport on the other side you might want to get to . In our hypothetical example let 's say you 're circling Deer Park VOR ( ) at 2500 feet , and you want to cut through the Class C airspace to get to Brookhaven ( ) , but approach is n't cooperating . <URL> I 've got three options sketched out here - think about them , then hover over the spoiler boxes for my thinking on each of the three routes : The dashed line through the center ( the route you were hoping Approach would give you ) . A straight line is the shortest distance between two points , but this straight line stinks : Since Approach would n't let you go through the class C airspace you 're going to have to spiral-climb to 4200 feet or higher ( 5500 feet if you 're playing by the hemispheric rule ) , and then when you get to the cut-out in the class C on the other side you 're going to have to dive down to get to pattern altitude . That does n't seem safe , nor efficient to me , so let 's toss that idea out the window . The northern route under the class C airspace . Simple enough , we 'll split the difference between the ground ( roughly sea level ) and the floor of the airspace ( 1500 feet ) and fly under the shelf at 1250 feet . Plenty of room above and below ( if your altimeter is set right and you 're any kind of decent pilot ) . So this is the part where I confess that I 'm a big ol' wuss and do n't like to be close to the ground . It 's like a porcupine , but with radio towers for quills ( like the one I marked with a big OUCH - at 1250 feet there 'd be less than 500 feet between my landing gear and the top of that tower ) . I 'm not happy with the obstacle clearance on this route ( and while I could certainly rearrange the line a bit to avoid the obstacles I 'm not going to because they serve my purpose ) -- the northern route is out . The southern route under the class C airspace . Same idea as the northern route - descend to 1250 feet and fly under the shelf , but I like this route a whole lot better . There are really great landmarks here ( " Fly southeast toward the looped road , then go to the middle of the bay and stay between the two shore lines until you pass the bridge at Smith Point . At that point you 'll see the airport off your left wing and can maneuver to enter the pattern . " ) You 're also over water , and we do n't tend to have any radio towers sticking up out of the bay . You 'll need to watch out for traffic from Bayport , students practicing ground-reference maneuvers , and banner-tow planes in the summer , but that 's just your basic everyday VFR " See and Avoid " situation . This is probably the route I 'd pick .
According to <URL> : 5.7.4 . ARRIVAL PROCEDURES : 5.7.4.1 . DESCENTS : 5.7.4.1.1 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ( Overhead , Downwind , Beam , etc ) : High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach . ... 5.7.4.1.3 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ASSAULT -- High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach to an assault landing zone . Note : A separate penetration descent profile may also be flown to Mackall AAF ( HFF ) , see Pope Aircrew In-flight guide for procedures . 5.7.4.1.3.1 . Arrival Procedures : 5.7.4.1.3.1.1 . When sequenced , commence penetration descent to a tactical approach , ARA , or normal pattern . Request desired approach as early as possible upon switching to Pope Tower . 5.7.4.1.3.1.2 . Remain at or above 2500 ' MSL until within 5 NM of Pope . Do not descend below 720 ' MSL until given clearance to land from Pope Tower . See also fooot 's <URL> to another question , where he describes a tactical descent as an extremely steep descent , and a tactical approach as an extremely steep approach . According to other sources , the technique in question might also be called ( depending on the exact landing circumstances ) an <URL> , a <URL> or even a <URL> .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
There are a few stages where ice prevention or mitigation is relevant . <URL> Very broadly speaking De-Icing activated when airframe ice is noticed . Anti-Ice is activated when a Pilot believes they may enter icing conditions . Ground based De-Ice is applied when icing conditions prevail in the area . Before Takeoff Most , if not all commercial airports offer de-ice facilities if geographically relevant . After the crash of <URL> the FAA took a bit of a harder stance on De-Ice and now stresses the need for mobile De-Ice units to allow planes to be De-Iced without leaving the taxi queue as well as permanent stations as they have always had . A lot of their suggestions are covered in <URL> as well as <URL> . In this case both airline procedure and FAA regulations will dictate the need for De-Ice . Strictly speaking according to <URL> a dispatcher can hold an aircraft if they feel it is not correctly De-Iced . However by the same law a pilot can hold their own departure for the same reason . En Route Once in the air there are a few ways things happen , but generally its ultimately up to the pilot to activate the De-Ice system . On one hand the aircraft POH will more than likely have guidance on when to do this , however , airlines may implement further ( and more strict ) procedures . Some aircraft are equipped with systems that automatically activate in the presence of ice build up . Once in route there are <URL> , Anti Ice : prevents the build up of ice in the first place , heated leading edges etc. . These are activated before entering icing conditions . De-Ice systems : like boots these systems remove ice once its built up . In this case you need to actually enter the conditions and allow the ice to build up first . <URL> The temperature depends on the cloud type but generally speaking low temperature and higher moisture content will create worse issues . <URL> ( <URL> ) Pilots will be alerted to <URL> . These are often quite broad area AIRMET 's . If a pilot believes they are potentially flying into icing conditions they should keep an eye on the airframe for structural icing build up . Many airplanes have icing lights to help at night with this . A pilot can activate the De-Ice system at any point if they feel it is needed .
end question
start question
Is it legal to use handheld radios to listen to airport frequencies in Australia ?
An Aeronautical License issued by the <URL> ( ACMA ) is required in order to operate a handheld aviation-band VHF transceiver in Australia . An aeronautical licence is issued to authorise a station that : is not fixed to an aircraft ; is operated on aeronautical frequencies ; is operated for purposes relating to the operation of an aircraft , or airport or aerodrome operations ; and in relation to an aircraft includes a mobile station operated on board the aircraft or on the ground in communication with aircraft . An aeronautical licence is necessary to authorise the operation of stations providing : air traffic control services ; aerodrome radio information services ; private company radiocommunications ; and other airport or aerodrome services . Reference : <URL> The Australian-based <URL> tutorial website may also provide more useful information . ( Note : This applies for a transceiver -- i.e. transmit &amp; receive -- rules may be different for receive-only ) .
In theory , it is perfectly legal to do your primary training in a jet . It is becoming common in militaries to do initial training in turboprops . <URL> Managing such a turboprop aircraft is actually simpler than managing your typical piston aircraft . One button start . One lever engine control . Maybe some day that will become a single engine jet .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
No , no restrictions on using an afterburner . There are a few <URL> on the civil registration that must use the afterburner to take off . However , most countries forbid supersonic flight by non military operated aircraft in their airspace . The only time Concorde went supersonic was over the ocean .
In the US , for general aviation flights , operating under <URL> , it is legal to take off with zero visibility ( <URL> , PDF ) . In my opinion , it is not safe . If an emergency were to take place , you would be unable to return and land ; under Part 91 , it is not legal to land unless conditions are equal to or better than a runway 's published approach minimums . Unless you 've got a great alternate nearby , conditions are improving rapidly , or you 've got an extra engine or two , you probably should n't take off in conditions you could n't land in .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
The code would also be shared among the purser and / or the other flight attendants , so the answer is no . I believe however that they tend to keep the same code for a few days within the same crew to make remembering it easier .
Generally two groups have authority to close a runway ( or airport ) for an incident/emergency , and if either says it 's closed , it 's closed : The airport owner/operator/management . It 's their facility , so if they say it 's closed , it 's closed . Specifically it 's the persons authorized to issue NOTAMs for the airport who can close a runway ( by issuing the NOTAM saying it 's closed ) , but the chain of command for making this decision may vary from airport to airport . Runways may also be closed by airport administration without issuing a NOTAM ( this happens frequently at Brookhaven airport ( KHWV ) - <URL> will be put out on the crosswind runway when the banner tow operators are set up for pick-up/release on that runway ) . Often there 's a blanket NOTAM about " banner tow ops " or similar that sort-of covers this situation ( basically " Expect strange things to be happening because the banner tow people are doing ... whatever it is they do " . ) The control tower ( if one exists ) . Whether or not they have the administrative authority to " close " a runway , they certainly have the practical authority to do so by denying anyone clearance to take off/land from it or to enter it , and by issuing NOTAMs indicating that a runway is closed/unusable for some reason . At an airport like LaGuardia where you have both an FAA Control Tower and a robust airport operations/management group ( The Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey ) a Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) or similar agreement is likely in place to ensure that everyone knows who is authorized to do what when , but in cases like this where an aircraft has a runway excursion the course of action is pretty obvious and nobody is going to want aircraft to be moving around on the ground until the situation is under control and safety can be assured .
It depends on the country where you are flying , and also what the message is . For example in the <URL> Chapter 2 , section 2.48 : 2.48 Ground to Air : Aircraft callsign -- message or reply . Air to Ground : Initiation of new information/request etc. -- Aircraft callsign then message ; Reply -- Repeat of pertinent information/readback/acknowledgement then aircraft callsign . In Germany the normal procedure is to start a message with the call sign , a reply may have the call sign at the end . From the AIP , GEN section 3.4-9 : 6.1 Procedures for Radio Communications ... ( 4 ) The call sign shall be transmitted at the beginning of a message . A direct answer to a message may be terminated by the call sign instead .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
Under the US FARs ( at least part 91 ) nothing special is required to take off in CAT IIIb weather besides an operational ( and IFR-legal ) aircraft and pilot . As mentioned elsewhere you can legally make that Zero/Zero takeoff where you ca n't even see the runway under your nose . It should go without saying that doing so would be incredibly stupid <URL> , but from a technical standpoint there 's nothing preventing the operation except the knowledge that you might run off the side of the runway into a ditch and bang up your aircraft and passengers . In terms of what would be required to make the takeoff safely , without running off the side of the runway into a ditch , I 'd posit that you would need the same capabilities as you 'd need to make the CAT IIIb landing safely : Aircraft systems that let you reliably track down the centerline for takeoff ( using the ILS or something of equivalent accuracy for guidance , and runway centerline lights ) . You would also need a reliable way to get from the gate to the runway , so taxiway centerline lights &amp; stop bar lights are a must , and probably <URL> or its functional equivalent with a controller monitoring it to help ensure you do n't taxi into another aircraft . All of the above is predicated on , among other things , being able to see the lights I mentioned . The <URL> mentioned elsewhere adds synthetic vision into the mix which further enhances safety ( and in the airline world allows takeoffs down to 300ft RVR ) . From what I can glean from the Rockwell-Collins marketing material their HGS seems to be able to provide " follow the green dots " taxi guidance ( and presumably runway centerline guidance for the takeoff roll as well ) , providing redundancy for the lights I described above to help the pilot ensure the aircraft is going where they want it to .
All gliders can be disassembled to take off wings and elevator . For each glider type there is a car trailer into which the glider fits after disassembling . <URL> Here you see the " reverse " process ( assembly ) :
Airport Capacity At major airports the capacity of the system of runways is the most restricting element . While it is usually possible to increase capacity of the other airport elements or adding a new runway ( plus associated taxiways ) is very expensive and takes a very long time to complete . The runway capacity is the principal cause of most extreme instances of delays that lead to widespread schedule disruptions , flight cancellations and missed flight connections . The runway capacity varies greatly from day to day and changes are difficult to predict ( even a few hours in advance ) . Factors : The capacity of the runway system depends on several factors , the most important ones : Mix of aircraft classes using the airport : the aircraft mix indicates composition of aircraft fleet that is using any particular runway ( e.g. 25 % S , 60 % L and 15 % H ) . Separation requirements imposed by the ATM system : due to wind tip vortices , leading aircraft and trailing aircraft must be separated by a determined distance ( Heavy aircraft are the ones that produce more wake turbulence ) . Type and location of exits from the runway : trailing aircraft of any pair can not touch down on the runway before leading aircraft is clear of the runway . High-speed runway exits ( also well placed runway exits ) reduce runway occupancy times for arriving aircraft . Mix of movements on each runway and the sequencing of the movements : specified for all combinations of consecutive operations ( arrival-departure ) . There 's an important trade-off between maximum arrival and departure rates that an airport can achieve . Lateral separation : ( especially in bad weather ) between aircraft approaching the same airport on parallel runways . Sequencing and separation of departing and landing aircraft on runways that intersect . Sequencing of aircraft approaching airports located in close proximity to one another , where one aircraft must cross the path of another aircraft landing at a nearby airport . Direction and strength of winds . Noise-related and other environmental considerations and constraints . Conclusion : It is difficult to predict the capacity of the runway system of an airport , so it is difficult to compare two airports with similar runway characteristics , since the factors depending on the airport capacity involve different design and operational parameters . Furthermore , everything is subject to the important probabilistic factor , the weather , which makes the prediction and comparison of airport capacity even more difficult .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
The voice communications for air traffic control is all analog ( <URL> ) . A scanner that works in that frequency range on AM should be fine . Although a switch to digital has been considered , there is just too much coordination and investment required . A good reference to find the right frequencies is <URL> . It will list all the frequencies for an airport . Another good reference for many frequencies , not just airports , is <URL> . The database there will tell you exactly how each channel is transmitted , so you know what type of radio you will need to listen to it . Also keep in mind that ATC transmissions are line-of-sight , so you will have to be close to a ground station to hear it . The " rubber duck " antenna included with a lot of scanners is fine but a better antenna will help to improve reception . Also , military aircraft use a higher frequency range , and a lot of cheaper scanners will not receive this .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
end question
start question
Why is the Inertial Reference System not used to determine true altitude ?
IRS will drift over time . Decision altitude is 200ft for ILS CAT I approach . 0.5 nm drift is not to much for navigation but it will be huge difference in altitude and you can hit obstacles if your altitude has drifted just couple of feet . Probably it could be used if backed by GPS as EGPWS does or non baro RNAV approaches do . But even GPS precision alone is not enough in this case and you need WAAS . Radio altimeter can give much better precision .
Let 's have a look at documentation of <URL> . It says ( on page 6 ) that if GPS data is lost , it will maintain RNP0 .1 for 8 minutes , RNP0 .3 for 20 minutes and RNP1 for 2 hours . That means that in 8 minutes the error is no more than 0.1 nautical mile with 95 % confidence , in 20 minutes it is no more than 0.3 nm with 95 % confidence and in 2 hours the error is no more than 1 nm again with 95 % confidence . For general description how it works see <URL> and of course the appropriate <URL> . Basically it measures acceleration and rotation ( with gyroscopes ) and integrates it over time . Modern systems do the calculations digitally with sophisticated filters to smooth over some errors .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
In April 2013 , the FAA 's Charting Group <URL> . The standard pattern used to be 800 ft AGL , and the <URL> ( formerly called Airport/Facility Directory or A/FD ) was inconsistent in listing them . Ultimately they decided : Chris Criswell , AJV-22 , reported that , per ACF recommendation , all traffic pattern altitudes , standard and non-standard , will be added into NASR ( the AFD ) for all airports . This will be a day forward implementation beginning in July 2014 . Some other places the TPA is recommended to be 1000 feet AGL : <URL> c . It is recommended that airplanes observe a 1000 foot above ground level ( AGL ) traffic pattern altitude . Large and turbine powered airplanes should enter the traffic pattern at an altitude of 1,500 feet AGL or 500 feet above the established pattern altitude . A pilot may vary the size of the traffic pattern depending on the aircraft 's performance characteristics . The Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will typically list the Traffic Pattern Altitude ( TPA ) if it is non-standard ( not 1000 ft/1500 ft AGL ) The FAA 's <URL> says The traffic pattern altitude is usually 1,000 feet above the elevation of the airport . Now the Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will be the definitive guide !
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
Winglets on wings help because they increase the volume of air on which the wing can act . <URL> , but when span is restricted or the maximum wing bending moment is limited , winglets bring a small improvement in efficiency at high lift coefficients . <URL> , however , the winglets would run through air which is already affected by the tips of the propeller . No additional air will be involved , so no efficiency increase will be possible . Please note that propulsive efficiency is increased by accelerating more air by a smaller amount . The formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an air breathing engine is $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the inflowing air and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the air affected by the propeller disc . A smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . This effect is most pronounced when $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low . The prop tip winglets would operate in a region of high dynamic pressure and generate more friction drag without contributing to the prop 's efficiency . By the way : Whoever tells you that winglets reduce induced drag quite a bit has something to sell to you , but I digress .
Airframe parachutes are becoming an increasingly popular option on newly-certificated aircraft , thanks in part to the track record of successful deployments on Cirrus aircraft . If I had to speculate on why they 're not showing up in older certificated designs ( like the Piper PA-28 or the Cessna 172 &amp; 182 ) I 'd go with the reason I mentioned in my comment : " New " Pipers and Cessnas are basically extended manufacturing runs of very old designs - going on 50 + years . Changing an existing aircraft design to include the required hardpoints , breakaway panels , etc. for a parachute system would be a substantial change to the type certificate , and under Part 23 certification rules doing so would cost the manufacturer an equally-substantial sum of money for the design , engineering , and testing required . Light GA aircraft sales at the moment are , shall we say , lackluster -- the additional costs for the engineering , the type certificate update , and the parachute itself would certainly not help matters , as that cost would need to be passed along to the eventual purchaser of parachute-equipped aircraft ( which would probably mean putting a 50 + year old classic Piper or Cessna design in the same price category as a clean-sheet Cirrus SR20/SR22 ) . In addition to the mainly-financial reasons above <URL> has a point regarding weight . <URL> . This kit costs about 80 pounds of useful load , and on many light GA aircraft the useful load is marginal enough that this added weight means you 're effectively sacrificing a passenger to the installation . The Cessna retrofit kit also takes up a substantial amount of space in the baggage compartment <URL> , which is certainly a negative factor as well . Were the chute to be incorporated into the design by Cessna it would likely be installed in a similar location ( there just are n't many other places to put it ) with a similar cost in weight and cargo space .
IRS will drift over time . Decision altitude is 200ft for ILS CAT I approach . 0.5 nm drift is not to much for navigation but it will be huge difference in altitude and you can hit obstacles if your altitude has drifted just couple of feet . Probably it could be used if backed by GPS as EGPWS does or non baro RNAV approaches do . But even GPS precision alone is not enough in this case and you need WAAS . Radio altimeter can give much better precision .
The 747-300 was somewhat of a cross between -200 and SP . The -300 was almost same as the -200 except for the increased length of the hump . The -300 was never a success and was soon overshadowed by the -400 . The 747SP was the result of a requirement for longer range aircraft . Boeing engineers basically <URL> . However , by the time it flew for the first time , commercial air travel had changed ( in no small part due to the high oil prices ) and the model never sold as much as Boeing had hoped . However , when it was observed that there were no adverse effects when the rear of the cockpit lined up with the front of the wing , Boeing introduced the 747-300 with increased length of the hump with little else in terms of major change from -200 . However , just two years after -300 was introduced , Boeing introduced the -400 , which was a significant improvement - it eliminated the flight engineer , increased range among others , while retaining the -300 's hump ( which meant more economy seats ) . 747-400 is the most successful model of the series , with more than 690 orders . Most airlines jumped straight to the -400 , effectively killing the -300 . Actually , the 747-200 production ( with over 390 made ) ended after the -300 version ( of which only 81 were made ) . So they are more of contemporaries . Also , it 'll be a stretch to call that the older 747 versions are still in passenger service . 747-100 is <URL> , <URL> hardly qualify as passenger service and the most successful of these , the 747-200s are also <URL> , if you discount the VC-25s flying around with US President ( which are slated to be replaced by 747-8s ) .
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
Instead of having a set of contra-rotating proprotors on each side , if you 're after decreasing the disk loading , a span increase would also do the trick , allowing wider proprotors . However the Wikipedia paragraph starts by saying : Due to the requirement for folding rotors ... The main contributor to its less-than-ideal size is the folding requirement to save parking space aboard ships , since the primary operators are the US Navy and the USMC . Adding another set of rotors or increasing the span wo n't help : <URL> ( <URL> )
The philosophy employed on the Stanford site is to convert the product of drag coefficient and corresponding surface area to a " drag area " , which is technically the area of a body with a drag coefficient of 1 . See page 1-8 in <URL> for the definition and tons of helpful real-world data on drag . To convert this into a drag force , it still needs to be multiplied with the dynamic pressure , which is the product of the square of the velocity , the air density and the factor 0.5 . No further inclusion of the surface area is needed , as this is already factored into the drag area values of each drag component . Using the drag coefficient lets you compare the relative dragginess of drag components ( friction drag , pressure drag , ... ) . If you want to compare the dragginess of aircraft components ( wing , fuselage , tail surfaces , ... ) , using their drag area adds a factor for their size , making it easier to compare the relative influence of the drag of different aircraft components on total drag . To answer your second question : Planform area is the wing area you see in the top view of an aircraft , and the wetted area is the actual area which is exposed to airflow . If you start with the planform area , you need first to subtract the part of the wing which is inside the fuselage . Next , you double the result to account for both sides , top and bottom , and then you divide this sum by the cosine of the dihedral angle and the cosine of the incidence angle to arrive at your wetted area .
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
<URL> provides cloud tops for weather with precipitation . Cloud tops with no precip can be discerned from data provided in the Skew-t log ℗ charts that are part of this app <URL> Where the temperature and dew point on the skew-t charts are converged you can expect clouds . If the convergence extends into the freezing level indicated on the chart you can expect icing .
Farhan 's answer covered why the deck is angled in the first place . As far as why the landing area of the deck points left instead of right , this is for several reasons : Angling to port makes the most use of the deck area behind the catapults . Angling starboard would require the catapults to be shifted left off the centerline of the carrier ( yes , the carrier does have two additional catapults on the port side , but these ca n't be used while the carrier is retrieving aircraft , which is more often than you 'd think as the carrier maintains regular patrols ) . Angling the landing strip toward the " island " ( conning tower ) of the carrier just does n't sound like a good idea when you say it . That goes double when you realize the carrier is underway while you 're trying to land on it , and therefore you have to lead the landing strip a little . If you do n't , you 'll end up " behind " the ship and the landing strip . With the landing strip angled to port , a plane on a " lagging " approach ( lined up " behind " where the carrier 's going to be at touchdown ) will have a relatively clear path off to port for a wave-off . Angled to starboard , a plane that 's " lagging " the carrier would be pointed right at the tower . It would be possible to mirror the entire deck layout ; island to port , landing area angled starboard . The reason the island is on the starboard side is primarily convention ; all U.S. Navy aircraft carriers ever built have been either flush-decked or have had the island to the right . That 's thus a familiar sight picture for naval pilots across all eras , and easy to train to . A new carrier design does n't get the luxury of a whole new crew trained an entirely different way ; the Navy 's been training pilots since 1910 , they 've been landing planes on boats since 1927 , and they 'll do it they way they 've been doing it for 88 years , thank you very much . The Imperial Japanese Navy commissioned two carriers , Akagi and Hiryu , with island-left designs , fielded with the idea that the island-left carrier would sail in formation with an island-right carrier in the same flag group , with opposing traffic patterns that did n't conflict . This procedure never materialized in practice ; most carrier groups in both Japanese and U.S. fleets ended up with a single carrier due to their high cost and lower total number , a pattern that continues today , and even when two ( or more ) carriers were close enough to be called part of the same naval group , they typically maintained a wide enough spacing to permit a left-hand pattern for both ships .
If you are unsure whether your SELCAL equipment is properly working , you can request a on a HF-enabled radio frequency . The ATC unit will send out your SELCAL code for testing purposes . I 'm not sure my selcal unit is working , is there anywhere I can test it ? Yes , several places . If you are located in : Europe or east of 30W on the North Atlantic , call Stockholm Radio Eastern USA/Canada or west of 30W on the North Atlantic , call New York ARINC Western USA/Canada or Pacific , call San Francisco ARINC Asia - daylight hours , call Singapore or Manila Radio on 8942 KHz USB [ ... ] All selcal checks are free of charge - just call the station with the aircraft registration mark and when you receive a reply ask for a selcal check and give your selcal code . The operator will send out your selcal tone and - assuming the selcal unit is working - you will hear a chime in the cockpit . Acknowledge by replying ' selcal check okay ' and you 're done ! If your selcal check does n't work the first time it is worthwhile asking for a ' double ' which means you get 2 sets of tones sent out back-to-back and often cures any issues . ( Source : <URL> )
High altitude means low air density . Ignition is <URL> , and the size of the combustor determines up to which altitude and throttle setting an engine will stay lit . Testing that it really works at those low densities before flying is a really good idea .
When you read or hear the term " under the hood " as it relates to simulated IMC , it may or may not be an actual hood . The FAA does not require a hood , instead the FAA calls for a " view limiting device . " Often the view limiting device used is a hood such as the ones depicted below . However , other view limiting devices can also be used , such as glasses with an opaque coating that limits your view such as the ones depicted in the last picture below the hoods . Checkout this " superhood " at <URL> ! <URL> This is the type I used for my IFR certificate back in the day . <URL> This is another type of view limiting device that can be used to simulate IMC . It is commonly still referred to as " under the hood " or as " hood-word " , but as you can see these are not a hood . There is a name brand of glasses like these called " foggles . " And most people refer to these as " foggles " , although , these , are a different brand . <URL>
" Wilco " is short for the phrase " <URL> , " meaning that the speaker will follow the instructions to which they are replying . <URL> places the origin at 1938 , some time after the invention of radio , likely in military usage . Although the phrase " roger wilco " is sometimes used , <URL> since the " roger " ( <URL> ) is implied .
The three main reasons are : Prevent theft of headphones due to incompatibility with home systems Redundancy , if one connector breaks , the other will still provide audio Before the 3.5 mm jack was used , a pneumatic system was in use , which required two connectors . This question has been asked on different websites already , but here is a detailed explanation that sums it up nicely : There are a couple main reasons : First , the airlines were trying to prevent theft of headphones . The two-pronged plugs have been around on airplanes since way before the airlines started charging for headsets . Back then , headphones were not usually easily carried around as the portable earbud style had not become popular yet . By using a two-pronged setup that is not used in most other audio systems , the motivation for passengers to steal the headsets went down immensely . The second reason is redundancy . When a standard stereo headphone jack with three internal connections ( right , left , and ground ) breaks , you will often lose audio in both the left and right channels . However , with the two-pronged design , if one of the jacks breaks then there will still be audio going through the other channel . While this is annoying for the user , it is an easy way for the airline to defer maintenance on that individual seat 's audio system until both the left and right channel are non-functional . The two-prong design is a relic of the past , before headphones were bundled with so many of the mobile devices we now buy . Planes with updated inflight entertainment ( IFE ) systems usually have the standard stereo jack as most passengers prefer using their own headsets now . Slowly these old connectors will be completely phased out . Another less obvious ( and probably less likely , but interesting nonetheless ) reason , though , is based on airline complacency . Airlines , especially US based airlines , are notoriously slow in changing their tactics . Back before the 3.5 mm jack became the standard for headphone audio connections for IFEs , airplanes used a pneumatic headphone design . These headphones were similar to stethoscopes where hollow tubes would be plugged into the armrest which had actual soundwaves coming out ( instead of analog electrical signals ) . These systems were much more reliable than the standard electrical system and the headsets themselves were very cheap to replace . Since the pneumatic system required two separate plugs for the left and right channel ( since you can not mix physical sound waves into a single hole ) , all armrests were designed with two holes for audio . Airlines were likely so used to having two jacks for audio that they continued with the same design when they switched to electrical audio signals . ( Source : <URL> - Author : Raj Misra )
end question
start question
Where can I get test samples for Assistant Air Traffic Controller Officer exam ?
Based on the country you are looking for the certification , rules may be slightly changed . For India following syllabus is applicable ( Source : atcguild.com ) At present it is a year-long ab-initio training ( Under revision to make it in two sections of six months each ) Modules : Air Traffic Services Aerodromes and Ground Aids Air Legislation Meteorology Communication Procedures Technical Search and Rescue Air Navigation The selection shall be made on the basis of a Written test 50 % questions on subjects relating to educational qualifications prescribed 50 % on General Knowledge , General Intelligence , General Aptitude , English etc. . Voice test Personal Interview Medical fitness as per ICAO Annex-1 I Googled for the subject , but did n't find much information on the paper patterns or example papers .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
RFL is Requested Flight Level , ECL is the En-Route Cruise Level . RFL the cruising flight level that has been requested by the flight plan or by the pilots , ECL is the level which has been actually assigned by the controller . The two may be the same or they may be different . From the <URL> , page 33 2.3.2 Enroute Cruising Level ( ECL ) ( 3.3.2 ) Domain Knowledge : The ECL is a notional level that , in the absence of constraints , equates to the RFL . In the case where a flight is not permitted to cruise at its RFL for any or a part of its route , due to the presence of a strategic constraint ( level limit ) which applies to flights between the aerodromes of departure and destination , the ECL will be limited to the level defined by the constraint . The ECL may also be changed by instruction from ATC where the flight is to maintain a different cruising level , typically due to the proximity of a flight at the RFL on the same route . As with the RFL , the ECL can be changed for different segments of the route and , if different in the cruise phase , is changed to the XFL on passing the sector boundary . The notion of ECL ceases to exist after the final TOD from cruising level . This is a complicated way of saying the requested flight level is usually assigned unless there 's a good reason for the controller not to ( to avoid potential conflicts for example ) , and the pilots can request a different flight level en route .
The airspace around the world is divided into sectors within a <URL> ( FIR ) / Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) / <URL> ( ACC ) , which range from very small and tight airspace pieces to larger combinations or enroute sectors . Enroute sectors will usually be larger than <URL> ( TMA ) . During peak-hours , these sectors will be handled by one controller responsible for each sector . If capacity and traffic flow permit , these sectors can be combined and two sectors will be handled by the same controller . Below is a picture of the Paderborn Lower Sector , ranging from GND to FL135 . This is usually a stand-alone sector which only covers approaches to Paderborn ( EDLP ) and Dortmund Airports ( EDLW ) . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) If traffic permits , the adjacent sector Hamm Lower from GND to FL115 , handling arrivals and departures to Münster ( EDDG ) , will be handed over to the controller responsible for Paderborn Lower . This can also be done vice-versa , where the Hamm Lower controller becomes responsible for the Paderborn Lower sector . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) TMA controllers not only handle IFR aircraft approaching or departing from airfields within their sector , but also any enroute traffic crossing the sector , VFR traffic requesting to cross airspaces which require prior permission and other tasks . <URL> , controllers take breaks between working their sectors and sometimes often switch sectors during a shift . A controller working Paderborn Lower during the beginning of his shift can end up working Hamm Lower towards the end of his shift with adequate breaks in between their sessions . See this related question : <URL>
The images look a lot like the ones in : <URL> The classic paper on multi element airfoils , great read !
In Canada ( and I believe similarly in the United States ) , there are four ratings which can be applied to an Air Traffic Controller license : Airport Control Terminal Control Area Control Oceanic Control Within each of those ratings , the responsibilities are sub-divided a bit based on operational needs . For example , controllers at a tower ( with an ' Airport Control ' rating ) would tend to be qualified in all aspects of tower operations including : Clearance Delivery ( issuing IFR clearances or assigning transponder codes ) Ground Control ( issuing clearances for aircraft to move to/from the apron and runway areas via a taxiway system Air Control ( issueing clearances to aircraft in the runway environment and in the vicinity of the airport ) Terminal Controllers ( if a terminal control area exists around the airport in question ) would be responsible for flights in the immediate vicinity of the airport to approximately 20-50 nautical miles . Their responsibilities may include multiple small airports , just a single large airport , or even just one specific operation at an airport ( such as arrival control or departure control ) . These controllers are usually allowed to apply a smaller amount of lateral separation between aircraft due to the dense nature of the terminal environment and the specific nature of their role . Once the aircraft leave the terminal ( if one exists ) , the Area Controller-sometimes called enroute control-takes over . They are responsible for anywhere between several hundred square miles of airspace to over several thousand square miles in the case of sectors in northern Canada . In the case of an aircraft transiting the ocean , a specific type of area controller called an Oceanic Controller takes over . They possess slightly different training in order to safely separate aircraft over the ocean in non-radar airspace .
FAA Funding is currently a mix of General Fund ( taxes everyone pays ) and Airway Trust Fund ( ticket taxes and fuel taxes ) money . The breakdowns are shown in : <URL>
In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller ( PLC ) . As opposed to the executive controller ( EC ) , who talks to the planes , the PLC ( who will be seated right next to the EC ) handles coordination with adjacent sectors via dedicated telephone lines . There are two main parts of a transfer : the transfer of communication and the transfer of control . The transfer of communication is the actual frequency switch -- the instruction for the pilot to switch from one frequency to another . The transfer of control is the transfer of responsibility of the flight from one controller to the next . Before answering your question directly , let us establish the premises of the question . Note : this answer refers primarily to European procedures , and is largely based on <URL> In respect to your question , the transfer of control is the interesting part . Firstly , we must realise that there are two fundamentally different premises for a transfer of control . Either the transfer takes place from one position/sector to another position/sector within the same ATC unit ( for example between two area control sectors in the same area control centre ) , or the transfer takes place from one ATC unit to another ( for example when a flight crosses a state border ) . In the first case , the adjacent sector will typically already have access to information about the flight , since both sectors rely directly on the same data source . In the second case , this might not be the case . Additionally , in the first case , controllers will often be physically seated right next to each other . For units where paper flight progress strips are still used ( mainly some approach and tower units ) , this enables controllers to physically pass the flight progress strip to the next controller . In both cases , there are four required stages which lead up to a transfer of control ( refer to ICAO document 4444 , section 10.1 ) : a ) Notification of the flight in order to prepare for coordination , as necessary ; b ) Coordination of conditions of transfer of control by the transferring ATC unit ; c ) Coordination , if necessary , and acceptance of conditions of transfer of control by the accepting ATC unit ; and d ) The transfer of control to the accepting ATC unit or control sector . Doc 4444 also states that : ATC units shall forward from unit to unit , as the flight progresses , necessary flight plan and control information . Now , your question is , to what extend is this data transfer process automated . ICAO document 7030 gives us a clue to the background of the answer : When so agreed between adjacent ATC units , a computer-assisted coordination process shall be introduced to eliminate the need for verbal coordination of boundary estimates and to reduce the amount of manual data input into ATC computers . In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Silent transfer of control procedures require that traffic is predictable and sufficient system support is provided to ATCOs to ensure : - They are in possession of all elements related to the aircraft profile and - Should the agreed conditions of the transfer change , they have the means to speak to each other such that new conditions are agreed expeditiously and safely . Silent transfers are based on the exchange of flight data , which happens through connected Flight Dara Processing Systems , which make use of the OLDI protocol . The operational use of connections between Flight Data Processing Systems ( FDPSs ) at ACCs for the purpose of replacing verbal " estimates " is referred to as On-Line Data Interchange ( OLDI ) . The implementation of basic OLDI messages is mandatory in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1032/2006 . These messages are defined by the EUROCONTROL Specifications What this regulation means in practise is that , within Europe , silent transfers are used more often than not . However , you will also see units where a manual coordination prior to a transfer is required , for example flights crossing the border from certain European countries to certain non-European countries . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
You did n't mention any specific jurisdiction but for the FAA , the expected actions are in the <URL> . Section 5-2-8 says : When you observe a Code 7600 display , apply the procedures in para 10 − 4 − 4 , Communications Failure Section 10-4-4 gives general instructions for comms failure , it 's too long to quote in full but the first paragraph summarizes it : In the event of lost communications with an aircraft under your control jurisdiction use all appropriate means available to reestablish communications with the aircraft . These may include , but not be limited to , emergency frequencies , NAVAIDs that are equipped with voice capability , FSS , Aeronautical Radio Incorporated ( ARINC ) , etc. . The instructions suggest some specific actions : Broadcast via NAVAID frequencies Ask the aircraft to use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge instructions If comms have n't been reestablished within 5 minutes , ATC is instructed to consider it as suspicious : If radio communications have not been ( re ) established with the aircraft after 5 minutes , consider the aircraft 's or pilot 's activity to be suspicious and report it to the FLM/CIC per FAA Order JO 7610.4 , Chapter 7 , Hijacked/Suspicious Aircraft Reporting and Procedures Section 10-2-5 also says that lost comms are an emergency from the ATC perspective and should be escalated to the <URL> . If comms are n't restored within 30 minutes then the aircraft is considered overdue , which triggers another set of procedures listed in section 10-3 . As for clearing airspace or whatever , there are no specific instructions in the orders , it just says that : When an IFR aircraft experiences two-way radio communications failure , air traffic control is based on anticipated pilot actions . In other words , ATC expects IFR pilots to follow lost comms procedures as per <URL> and will direct other traffic accordingly . Finally , one ' routine ' lost comms scenario is when ATC ca n't contact an aircraft because of poor radio coverage . This happens a lot with smaller aircraft ( which fly relatively low ) operating in remote areas and ATC might ask another aircraft , usually a higher-flying airliner if possible , to contact the first aircraft and relay their call : N12345 , this is BigAir 123 with relay from Denver Center .
Definition A second officer ( SO ) is third in line of command on an airplane . The <URL> is : a Second Officer is used on international or long haul flights where more than two crew are required to allow for adequate crew rest periods . I have never seen anyone besides a captain and first officer on a short-haul flight . Such flights normally do n't even require either the captain or first officer to take a break to rest . Duties Second officers are qualified pilots and also type-rated for the airplane they are on , similar to the captain and first officer , but only with lesser experience . I do not know the exact career path for them , but most probably they are promoted to become first officers . This is same as first officers are promoted to become captains . Jobs There are certainly jobs available for second officers , but only on airlines which operate long-haul flights . Regional airlines with flights only for a 2-3 hours do n't require a second officer1 . <URL> is hiring ( also <URL> ) . The experience of a second officer on Cathy can be <URL> . Aviation Job Search is <URL> . SO on Short-Haul Each airline can have its own definition of second officer . What I wrote above is the general meaning . You mentioned <URL> and <URL> ( in comments to the deleted answer ) but I could n't find jobs for SO . Flight Engineer Their role is different than pilots and now they are a diminishing breed . Most of them were not pilots . Again , an airline may label a flight engineer as second officer , though <URL> did not mention that . 1 : The aftermath of Germanwings crash can make some <URL> .
1 ) Why does n't the tower use satellite throughout the flight ? The narrow answer is that the control tower is responsible for a small geographic area . The " tower " does n't want to talk to the craft at other points in the flight , so the need is not there . It only wants to talk to the plane when it is close to the tower 's airspace . Other components of air traffic control that do need to talk with airplanes in flight also divide up regions of the airspace and have radio equipment situated to talk to the necessary craft . A larger answer is that ground control and aircraft communications were under major development for decades before satellite communications were available . The system we use today is heavily based on line-of-sight VHF communication radio over most populated areas . Since these systems are already installed in many thousands of aircraft , changing to something different like satellite communication requires a significant benefit , someone to pay for it , and a lot of time to allow for the change . 2 ) Does a control tower only send voice services through the direct link ? or does it send data as well ? Data is beginning to be sent via <URL> . You can search for CPDLC on this site and find several questions and answers about it , but it is considered only a supplement to the voice communication of ATC today . Are n't there security issues or power safety issues involved in ground to air transmissions ? Unauthorized transmissions are possible , but they are managed and have n't traditionally been a big problem . There 's another question about <URL> . But much of the answer is that since ATC is monitoring the frequency , unauthorized transmissions would be heard and responded to . I 'm sure that future digital delivery will change some of these issues , but that 's likely to be true whether the message is transmitted via local radio transmitters or satellite . Not sure if that 's what you meant by security issues . I 'm not familiar with power safety issues .
Airliner parts have a tiny market outside of the airline and maintenance businesses ( in the sense thst the general public generates no demand ) which means that there probably are n't many places to shop for unairworthy ( read : cheap ) spares . I would place " want to buy " ads on Barnstormers and maybe cruise the site from time to time clicking through relevent categories . I did see one <URL> but you 'll have to contact the seller to see exactly what they have and how much they want . You could certainly buy a new part but you will not like the price tag . I imagine that an unairworthy spare for an -800 series will be hard to find compared to a -200 , for example , because of the quantity of inoperative junk parts generated thus far by the respective fleets . Good luck !
The easiest way to tell the direction of the wind when you 're near the water is to look for something on the shore that indicated wind direction ( beaches often have flags on them ) Barring that there are a bunch of other clues that should be familiar to any sailor ( or seaplane pilot ) which you can borrow : Boats lying at anchor weathervane and automatically point into the wind This is n't 100 % reliable : Some boats will set two anchors ( fore and stern ) and wo n't weathervane . Also when the tide is shifting boats will swing to align with the tide if it 's stronger than the wind . Boats lying at anchor sometimes have a flag on them Flags on a boat at anchor work the same way as flags on land - they 're excellent indicators of wind direction . On calm bodies of water the wind creates visible surface ripples The concave side of these ripples is the windward side . <URL> ( Visualize the water as being a large bowl of soup - now blow on the soup . The ripples will have the same shape . ) This same principle applies to larger waves as well ( other factors could cause the dominant breeze along a shoreline to not be quite perpendicular to the waves , but if your concern is ground reference maneuvers it 's " close enough " ) . " Wind Streaks " on the sea indicate wind direction <URL> are somewhat ambiguous in that they 're aligned with the wind , but do n't tell you which way it 's blowing : You have to figure that out for yourself ( for example by looking at the shape of the waves as described above ) . <URL> Surf spray gives wind speed and direction Waves breaking will produce spray that blows downwind - I could n't find a good illustration for this , but the finer spray tends to blow , while heavier drops just fall . The distance the spray blows gives an approximate indication of wind speed . It would take some pretty heavy seas to produce visible spray at altitude though , and you 're more likely to see foam and whitecaps in that case Foam or Whitecaps provide wind speed and direction Foam or whitecaps provide an indication of direction ( the foam appears to move upwind - into the wind ) and speed ( it generally takes winds of 10-15 knots or more to produce whitecaps and foam ) .
Well , sort of . The Kennedy Space Center , where the shuttle operations were conducted , <URL> . but then , the show was run by NASA , not FAA . The shuttle operations were coordinated through the Aerospace Control Officer ( ACO ) at the Air Force 45 th Space Wing 's Eastern Range ( it used a military TACAN ) . FAA was informed of the shuttle landing and nothing else . NASA simply cleared the airspace for a 30 mile radius around the intended landing site to prevent collisions . In the trajectory of the shuttle landing , FAA issued a NOTAM called ' Space Shuttle Landing Operations Advisory ' to warn the users that 25 miles to either side of the nominal reentry trajectory is potentially vulnerable to debris , but the airspace is not closed , like this example : FDC 9/1945 ( A0856/09 ) - ... SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS ADVISORY ... EFFECTIVE 0911271848 UTC UNTIL 0911271923 UTC SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS 25 NM EITHER SIDE OF THE LINE BETWEEN 2743S/17214W 0411N/16214W 2925N/13455W 3440N/11828W 3457N/11745W FROM SURFACE TO UNLIMITED . WIE UNTIL UFN . CREATED : 25 NOV 21:11 2009 For these actions , Special Use Airspace was activated . The ACO coordinates these actions with the FAA 's ARTCC ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) in Miami , Florida
Yes , the mechanic can fly the aircraft , according to <URL> ( Williams , 2014 ) : The scenario you present is a mechanic who , as part of his duties , conducts flight tests after performing maintenance on the aircraft , and does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . The mechanic holds a private pilot certificate with a valid third class medical certificate . This situation is covered under § 61.113 ( b ) , which states that , " [ a ] private pilot may , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if ( 1 ) the flight is only incidental to that business or employment and ( 2 ) the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " As these flight tests are incidental to his employment as a mechanic , the mechanic is not in violation of § 61.113 when conducting these flight tests
The test was carried out by the Sandia National Laboratories under terms of a contract with the Muto Institute of Structural Mechanics , Inc. , of Tokyo . The <URL> : ... was to determine the impact force , versus time , due to the impact , of a complete F-4 Phantom -- including both engines -- onto a massive , essentially rigid reinforced concrete target ( 3.66 meters thick ) . The reports on the tests can be found in these places : <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al.and <URL> by K. Muto et . al. . Interestingly , the aircraft used in the tests were flyable . The report notes : A flyable F4D aircraft was acquired by Sandia . The aircraft was modified slightly in order to support the aircraft at four locations with a special carriage structure . ... the aircraft weighed 12.7 tonnes ( with some avionics removed ) . The impact weight was 19 tonnes , which included ... 4.8 tonnes of water that was added to simulate the fuel weight ... The target consisted of a block of reinforced concrete 7m square and 3.66 m thick ... with a combined weight of 469 tonnes . The aircraft was crashed with the engines and <URL> : A fully functional F4 was used in the impact test.Only the gears and flaps at the main wings were partly removed and replaced by a carriage structure and sleds . This can also been in the following mass distribution diagram for the aircraft used in the test . <URL> Image from <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al. . Finally , the test was for measuring the impact forces , not the strength of the wall , <URL> : At Sandia , a spokesman , John German , said the point of the test was to move the wall , as a way to measure the impact forces . ... as a preliminary step in building a computer model of such impacts , ... Mr. German said : " That test was designed to measure the impact force of a fighter jet . But the wall was not being tested . No structure was being tested . "
Ca n't hurt to ask ! I do n't know the specifics of the situation , but I would be willing to bet that your chances are better than you think . If it was one farmer with a grass strip and no accommodations for visiting aircraft you might be out of luck , but from what you describe it does n't sound like one extra airplane on the ground for a few hours is going to make that much of a difference . In fact , it might be that Fred ( or whoever ) will also be visiting friends for Labor Day and might be willing to let you use his ramp . They ca n't say yes if you do n't ask .
If you 're asking whether you can pay for one with an HSA or FSA , then yes , <URL> , though consult with your insurance provider first if they are covered by your plan . Physical Examination You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay for an annual physical examination and diagnostic tests by a physician . You do not have to be ill at the time of the examination . If you 're looking to add it to a list of itemized deductions , as Pondlife explained , it generally has to be <URL> . If you are a professional pilot , then this is deductible . What Can I Deduct ? To be deductible , a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary . An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your industry . A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business . An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary .
You might want to have a look into <URL> . The article suggests that In 2003 , ICAO set a deadline of March 2008 for English language proficiency at Level 4 and above for all pilots flying international routes and air traffic controllers serving international airports and routes . Original text is not in bold . In the same link , you can also find the description of each rating scale , as described in the , quoted here for convenience : <URL> As of translators on call , I 've never heard of such a practice and if I judge from the Level 4 being the minimum , that would n't be necessary .
end question
start question
Why would a passenger airliner be missing windows in the fuselage ?
Most of them are where there is a divider between sections or there is a lavatory there . Here are the layouts for the Garuda A330-200 and -300 . As you can see the divider between the classes ( Between Blue row 11 and green row 21 ) and the lavatories ( Between rows 31 and 32 ) are located where the missing windows are in the video . -300 : <URL> -200 : <URL> Images by Garuda Airlines
Why not ? There have been <URL> of near-sonic and even <URL> dashes by the Boeing 747 , and the damage to the <URL> elevator was done by landing gear doors which ripped off when the main gear was extended and its doors hit the elevator . There have been a few unintentional supersonic dives , and in those cases the actions taken by the crew to decelerate caused damage to the aircraft . <URL> , a Boeing 727 which rolled into a dive , and China Airlines Flight 006 overstressed the airframe , but both aircraft returned to service after repairs . IAI experience tells me it needs a dive with a nose-down angle of 18 ° to get a Boeing 747 to Mach 0.98 . Since almost all surfaces experience already supersonic flow at this speed , going the step to Mach 1.01 would need not much more , maybe 25 ° . Pulling up from such a dive by means of the stabilizer should entirely be possible without exceeding g limits .
Our Flight Environment First the basics : <URL> is mainly carbon dioxide and has an average temperature of -47 ° C and an average pressure of <URL> . The speed of sound in these conditions is <URL> , the dynamic viscosity $ \ nu $ is <URL> , and for my calculations I use an atmospheric density of 0.0234 kg/m ³ . Now I owe all you early upvoters an apology . The earlier answer used an unsuitable methodology ; now I have improved the answer with different results . Operating Point Next step : The electric power supply makes a propeller the right choice , and for propeller aircraft the minimum power to sustain flight can be achieved when the lift coefficient is $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ This makes your zero-lift drag the real sizing parameter : Make the aircraft a little more draggy , and you get punished with a big size increase . Therefore , we strive to keep the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ down to 0.008 in order to keep the aircraft small . This allows to get an idea which aspect ratio will be best : At minimum power the total drag is four times the zero-lift drag , and the lift coefficient should be as high as possible to keep the aircraft 's size small . Realistically , our flight $ c_l $ will not grow above 1.6 ( which is the best that <URL> can manage at a reasonable L/D ) , so the aspect ratio is $ $ \ Lambda = \ frac { c_l ^ 2 } { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ which yields an aspect ratio of 35.74 when $ \ epsilon $ is 0.95 . Available Power Now we can follow the procedure in <URL> to calculate power demands for your solar-electric propulsion . Solar radiation on Mars is a lot lower than on Earth , but very reliable as there are no clouds to obstruct the sun . Beware of <URL> , however ! Since you gave the Martian solar constant in your question , I will use it here : The wing will be covered to 80 % with solar cells , and each square meter of them will produce your optimistic 200 W ( 500 W radiation times 40 % efficiency ) . Per square meter of wing we can achieve 160 W , and with an electric efficiency of 96 % and a propeller efficiency of 85 % this translates into a propulsive power per square meter of 130.5 W. Matching Thrust to Drag Now we can equate the drag $ D$ and the available thrust $ T$ from the power $ P$ , like this : $ $ D = T = \ frac { P } { v } = > 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho \ cdot v ^ 3 } { 2 } = 130.5 \ cdot S$ $ Luckily , wing area $ S$ can be canceled , and we get a result for the airspeed $ v $ at which the aircraft 's drag can just be supported by the power the wing can generate independent of wing area : $ $ v = \ sqrt [ 3 ] { \ frac { 130.5 } { 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ rho } } = 55.857 m/s $ $ Now for the real size : If we assume that the payload fraction is 25 % , the mass of the full aircraft will be 4 tons . To lift this at the dynamic pressure of 36.5 N/m ² which corresponds to the found flight speed we need a wing area of 254 m ² . This can create 40.65 kW of power , 33.17 of which are transformed into thrust . The wing span will be a whopping 95.28 m . How you get this to Mars I leave to your imagination - after all , this is just a tad less than the wingspan of the <URL> . If you can achieve a higher payload fraction , the wing will become smaller : At 30 % the full aircraft mass is only 3.333 tons , and the wing size will become 211.74 m ² large . Its wing span will be 87 m. With these dimensions I doubt that a higher payload fraction will be possible . The closest aircraft to this design was the <URL> , which had an empty mass of 3.6 tons ( with a propulsion system weighing close to the mass of Curiosity ) and a wing span of 61 m . Last Checks Mach number : 56 m/s is just Mach 0.2345 on Mars , so we should not run into compressibility effects which would limit the assumed lift coefficient . Reynolds number . The bigger wing has an average chord of 2.66 m and the smaller one still 2.43 m chord , and per meter the Reynolds number in -47 ° C cold carbon dioxide at 56 m/s is 4,900,000 - plenty enough to make the selected lift coefficient possible . Size helps here !
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
There are a few ways rough throttle handling on a propeller airplane can get you into trouble : Gyroscopic yaw and torque : a rotating prop creates yaw 90 degrees to its spin which are offset by control inputs ( mainly rudder ) , throttling up or down requires changes to these control inputs . Quick changes require bigger changes , slower changes give a pilot more time and allows smoother transitions . This is n't that big a consideration on lower-powered aircraft but it is on high-performance aircraft . In the first case that comes to mind an inexperienced P-51 pilot rammed full throttle in on a go-around and it flipped the aircraft on its back . At low airspeed it 's possible there was n't enough control authority to manage the forces even if he had been prepared for them Pitch changes : most aircraft will have a pitch change when the throttle is increased or decreased , again quick changes require coarser changes in controls while slower changes mean smoother and better controlled inputs . Again more applicable to higher performance aircraft Engine and carburetor : The engines in most light propeller-driven airplanes represent the pinnacle of 1950 's technology . Fuel mixture , priming , and throttle control are all completely manual - there are no electronic systems to help smooth things out during throttle changes . Many airplane engine carburetors do not have an accelerator pump to shoot extra fuel to prevent the engine stalling during a quick throttle up . Given that an engine stall when airborne is a life-threatening emergency it 's in your interest to make smooth , controlled changes Although not usually a safety issue wear and tear is also a consideration . Smooth , gentle changes are better for the levers , plungers , and cables in the engine control system . Less wear and tear means better reliability and less costs .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
In general , they do n't . U.S. airlines generally allow you to use your phones as soon as the plane lands . Southwest : Effective today , Southwest Customers with cell phones onboard may begin using them after the flight attendant gives permission to do so upon landing at the destination and taxi to the airport gate . Source : <URL> Delta : Use of cellular devices prior to takeoff is not allowed per Delta policy so that flight attendants may properly prepare the cabin for departure and conduct safety demonstrations uninterrupted . Cellular devices may be used upon landing as instructed by the cabin crew . Source : <URL> Perhaps of interest , the rule against using cell phone during flight in the U.S. is not an FAA Federal Aviation Regulation . It is instead an FCC ( Federal Communications Commission ) regulation designed to prevent interference to the cell network as a result of thousands of phones flying around at 600 mph hitting hundreds of cell stations at once . In general , the FCC acknowledges that this rule is outdated and that this is no longer an issue for the current cell network . As such , <URL> . However , some airlines ( including Delta and Southwest ) have <URL> , as the majority of their customers have indicated that they do n't want to listen to their neighbors chatting on a cell phone for hours on end . Delta will not allow cellular calls or internet-based voice communications onboard Delta or Delta Connection flights . Our customer research and direct feedback tell us that our frequent flyers believe voice calls in the cabin would be a disruption to the travel experience . In fact , a clear majority of customers who responded to a 2012 survey said they felt the ability to make voice calls onboard would detract from -- not enhance -- their experience . Delta employees , particularly our in-flight crews , have told us definitively that they are not in favor of voice calls onboard . - <URL>
To certify any Commercial Jet Plane worthy of flying , a 2 engine plane must be able fly with just 1 engine running a 3 engine jet like the Lockheed L1011 or DC10 with just 1 a 4 engine jet with just 2 . Although not a requirement , the 747 , A380 could fly on one engine but are not be able to maintain the cruise altitude indefinitely and will eventually become long-range gliders so they must land immediately . The landing approach and procedures vary on how much the plane weighs prior to landing . Would the passengers be notified , asking to take the brace position during landing ? Brace Positions are only assumed on impact emergencies , like crash landings . Losing an engine does n't mean you are going to crash so no brace will be assumed . Would such event have an accident investigation report ? There will be an investigation but if the plane landed safely it wont be filed as an accident . The plane plus the engines passed its FAA , EASA , etc Certification so it may be a number of reasons why the engine malfunctioned , like bad maintenance , faulty parts etc. . This is an extract from wikepedia -- <URL> Shut downs that are not engine failures Most in-flight shutdowns are harmless and likely to go unnoticed by passengers . For example , it may be prudent for the flight crew to shut down an engine and perform a precautionary landing in the event of a low oil pressure or high oil temperature warning in the cockpit . However , passengers may become quite alarmed by other engine events such as a compressor surge -- a malfunction that is typified by loud bangs and even flames from the engine 's inlet and tailpipe . A compressor surge is a disruption of the airflow through a gas turbine engine that can be caused by engine deterioration , a crosswind over the engine 's inlet , ingestion of foreign material , or an internal component failure such as a broken blade . While this situation can be alarming , the condition is momentary and not dangerous . Other events such as a fuel control fault can result in excess fuel in the engine 's combustor . This additional fuel can result in flames extending from the engine 's exhaust pipe . As alarming as this would appear , at no time is the engine itself actually on fire . Also , the failure of certain components in the engine may result in a release of oil into bleed air that can cause an odor or oily mist in the cabin . This is known as a fume event . The dangers of fume events are the subject of debate in both aviation and medicine . Would this report later be available for general public , as are the reports of various significant air disasters ? It depends , as you read above the flight deck crew may shut down an engine because of low oil pressure . Would that have significance of becoming public knowledge ? However as an example , if the problem of an engine failure escalates to the manufacturer then the airline may ground the fleet and that then becomes public knowledge and the reason why because the airliner would give media statements . It all depends on the severity of the problem . Like this one that got reported -- <URL> 20 August 2007 ; B-18616 , 737-800 , 30175/1182 , FF 11 Jul 02 , Okinawa , Japan : Engine # 1 caught fire shortly after docking destroying the aircraft . No fatalities . The cause was the detachment of a slat pylon bolt which fell off and pierced the fuel tank which leaked and ignited . According to the JTSB the washer that should have held the nut in place probably detached during maintenance 6 weeks before the incident . The design of the nut has since been changed to limit the likelihood of detachment .
The only formal classification of door types that I could find is in <URL> , which specifies the emergency exit requirements for transport category aircraft . It defines Type I-IV , Type A-C , ventral and tailcone exits . The doors you usually enter and leave the aircraft through are probably type I or A : Type I . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high , with corner radii not greater than eight inches . Type A . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high , with corner radii not greater than seven inches . These definitions are quite generic , but Transport Canada has a handy list of <URL> that gives specific details ( often including the type ) for many common aircraft . It says this for the 767 main doors : B-767-200 / 300ER ( Doors 1L/R FWD , 2L/R AFT ) Note : Some models equipped with 2 additional type 1 exits L/R just forward of wing . H - 1.88 m ( 6 ft 2 in ) W - 1.07 m ( 3 ft 6 in ) ; Type A Equivalent force required to move door control handle from closed/locked position to open position ( Normal and Emergency ) : 12 kg ( 26 lbs ) . Approximate force required to open a door ( lift upward ) from unlocked to open : 18 kg ( 40lbs ) . " Counterbalance " opening design . Inward/upward opening doors . Manually operated except some models equipped with electrical ( normal operation ) opening/closing option ( FWD Entry Door ) . Unique arming/disarming mechanism ( lever , indicators ) . Release button must be depressed and held to move arming lever to " Slide Armed " mode . Yellow plastic " Emergency Use Only " ( bendable ) flag moves upward in front of Door Control Handle when slide is in armed mode . Double channel slides . Upward rotating Door Control Handle . " Uplatch " mechanism holds door in open position . Button must be depressed while door is lowered initial few inches , to release . You can see from that list that the details can vary a lot , even if the basic designs are very similar . Coming up with pros and cons for every variant would be tough ( especially for me , since I know nothing about it ! ) , but obviously some aircraft are larger than others and that will limit how much space is available for the door mechanism . There are also operational considerations : aircraft that frequently operate out of smaller airports without <URL> may need to have <URL> , which are usually built into the doors .
FCOM for the A320 describes 3 independent hydraulic systems , with accumulation reservoirs for each at 6.5 L ,12.5 L &amp; 14.5 L ( 1.7 USG ,3.3 USG &amp; 3.8 USG ) respectively , so +33.5 liters is a good bet , which translate to 26-33 kgs depending on fluid type . Note that more fluid will be available in the system , but how much exactly you will need a mechanic to answer .
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
<URL> The engines were toed out slightly to improve engine-out handling ; three tailfins were used to ensure that the aircraft could keep flying more or less straight if both engines on one wing went down . I belive it was done to keep the thrust more equal in the event of an outboard engine loss , i.e. they are inline with the direction of flight when an engine loss occurs . Keep in mind that at the time these planes were designed engine failure was a <URL> and the mentality was a bit different than it is now . If a little bit of toe out mounting took a speed toll but made the aircraft far more controlable in the event of an engine loss it was considered worth while . In modern multi-engine propellor aircraft <URL> ( left side and right side props spin oposite directions ) are generally employed to fix this problem and avoid the <URL> . I do belive that some single engine aircraft still do employ a slightly canted engine position for this reason .
Because the pitch of the <URL> is not related to the pitch of the seats . The windows placement have to cut through as few frames as possible . You can see it in the following picture , noting that frames are " highlighted " by the vertical riveting Image <URL> It is even more evident in the picture contained in <URL> on UX.SE : Because the aircraft is designed once , but " decorated " by several airlines in several different manners . For example , an A320 or a B757 will have the windows always in the same locations , but depending on the airline that is using it , it will most probably have the seats in slightly different locations .
My questions are : Is it really normal to see reports without viz ? Yes ! Well , maybe not " normal " , but it does happen . Automated weather stations are like another piece of equipment and components fail from time to time , including the components which measure the visibility . The other components also fail from time to time ( I 've see ASOS/AWOS reports without temperature , barometric pressure , etc. ) Why does this happen so often for AWOS when ATIS does n't have problems with it ? You should n't see this at all with ATIS , because a human is involved , and if the equipment which measures visibility is inoperative , a trained observer ( often the same person that is manually recording the ATIS ) can look out the window and record the visibility themselves . Should this be reported to some entity ( NOAA/FAA ) to get these systems repaired or exchanged ? I would let the airport manager know just in case they were n't aware . They are responsible for notifying the FAA . The fact that it is missing visibility information does not mean that visibility is unobstructed , right ? I have heard people assume this . If the visibility is missing , it means just that . It is missing . It might be 1/4 SM or it might be 20 SM . Some people may make assumptions that if there is no precipitation , that the temperature / dew point spread is high , etc. that the visibility is good , but that is a potentially dangerous assumption because visibility can be influenced by many different things . There could even be a dust storm coming through when everything else looks good ! If the recording says " VISIBILITY MISSING " , is it indicated in the metar somewhere ? Sort of . It 's just " missing " ( i.e. the entire wind block from the METAR will not be there ) , so if you do n't see it then , well , it 's missing .
Yes , commercial airplanes have landed or crash landed in water many times . If I am not mistaken , you are asking about scenarios when the on-board <URL> and life raft are used . <URL> is a list of water landings . Examples when a life raft was used are ( in addition to <URL> ) : On 22 October 1962 , a Northwest Airlines DC-7C with 7 crew and 95 passengers made a successful water landing in Sitka Sound . ... The plane stayed afloat for 24 minutes after coming to rest in the water , giving the occupants ample time to evacuate into life-rafts . In 1993 , <URL> , a Boeing 747 -- 409 , ended up in water after it overran runway 13 ... All of the 396 occupants donned life-vests , boarded the eight slide/rafts and no fatalities resulted .
The fly-by-wire is absolutely vital for control of the aircraft , and the three dominating factors here are safety , safety and safety . Weight is not one of them . The fly-by-wire system is triple or quad redundant : instead of removing a set of cables , the manufacturers are installing 3 more cable looms , just to make sure that the system always works . <URL> Wires are safer than wireless ! . There are active transmitters and receivers in wireless systems , which can fail . Signal reception depends on the quality of the space between transmitter &amp; receiver : can the signal always penetrate the aluminium bulkhead ? What happens to the wireless signal when flying past airport radar or in the weather radar field of another aircraft ? Shielded wires are passive and relatively immune to electro-magnetic radiation , and are the means of choice for such a safety critical system . Update The OP was on fly-by-wire . In a sense , the flight control system is the most safety critical system on board and must be immediately available at all times . The <URL> in a comment reports on the progress of on-board wireless communication , for systems with a less critical safety aspect : Examples of Potential WAIC Applications Low Data Rate , Interior Applications ( LI ) : Sensors : Cabin Pressure - Smoke Detection - Fuel Tank/Line -- Proximity Temperature - EMI Incident Detection - Structural Health Monitoring - Humidity/Corrosion Detection Controls : Emergency Lighting - Cabin Functions Low Data Rate , Outside Applications ( LO ) : Sensors : Ice Detection - Landing Gear Position Feedback - Brake Temperature - Tire Pressure - Wheel Speed - Steering Feedback - Flight Controls Position Feedback - Door Sensors Engine Sensors - Structural Sensors High Data Rate , Interior Applications ( HI ) : Sensors : Air Data - Engine Prognostic - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Images/Video Comm. : Avionics Communications Bus - FADEC Aircraft Interface - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Audio / Video ( safety-related ) High Data Rate , Outside Applications ( HO ) : Sensors : Structural Health Monitoring Controls : Active Vibration Control <URL> From the same presentation : An A380 has 5,700 kg of wires on board , and 30 % of them are potential candidates for a wireless substitute . So wireless communication on board of aircraft does make sense , starting with the non-safety critical systems first .
<URL> says ( my emphasis ) : ( g ) Logging instrument time . ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . Based on that , the answers to your questions are : You 're in IMC ( i.e. you 're operating below the visual minimums in <URL> ) but as you said , that does n't mean you 're flying " solely by reference to instruments " If the conditions are IMC , yes ( 61.51 does n't require an instructor to operate the aircraft using only instruments ) Whether you 're wearing foggles or not , you can log instrument time only when you 're operating solely on instruments . Practically speaking , using foggles guarantees that you 're doing that and can therefore log the time . Without them , some or all of the time might be loggable , i.e. only the part that you really spend flying only on instruments . <URL> . According to <URL> : When weather conditions permit , regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules , vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft . It 's very common to fly cross country under IFR without logging any instrument time , or logging very little , simply because you 're never solely on instruments .
Most of them are where there is a divider between sections or there is a lavatory there . Here are the layouts for the Garuda A330-200 and -300 . As you can see the divider between the classes ( Between Blue row 11 and green row 21 ) and the lavatories ( Between rows 31 and 32 ) are located where the missing windows are in the video . -300 : <URL> -200 : <URL> Images by Garuda Airlines
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
Why are n't cell phones allowed ? / What problems to cell phones cause ? Most of these cases apparently originate from a series of <URL> in the 90s which were believe to be caused by electronic gadgets , hence the ban . This was when cell phones appeared , and there was an aggressive ban as a result . NASA has a <URL> which includes some of these and makes for an interesting read . Now however an increasing list of airlines is allowing them again , depending on jurisdiction . FAA is <URL> from a regulatory standpoint . Bear in mind that phones were probably much more powerful back when these rules were introduced . Mythbuster ( episode 6 , 2006 ) did a test on this by sticking in a powerful transmitter into a business jet . Their <URL> gives a slightly different version : It was the FCC , not the FAA , who led the way for this regulation : Explanation : Never mind what the chatterbox in the seat next to you says about cell phones messing with plane navigation -- those metallic birds are built airtight against foreign signals and operate on entirely different frequencies than cell phones . So why all the fuss about phones ? When you make a call at 10,000 feet , the signal bounces off multiple available cell towers , rather than one at a time . That means too many phone-happy jetsetters might clog up the networks on the ground , which is why the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) -- not the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) -- banned cell use on planes . How is using a cell phone in the air different than using it from the ground ? Is it sensible to allow them on aircraft ? To quote one of the above sources : although the FAA recommends that you still switch to airplane mode because you 're not going to get a signal 30,000 feet in the air -- the only hit you 'll take is a dead battery when you land . So it 's probably not a huge loss if you 're flying commercial aircraft at 10,000 meters . In any case , you ca n't expect a service like you do on the ground , unless like Lnafziger says that the aircraft is equipped with a cellular basestation called a <URL> , illustrated below :
end question
start question
Does Autopilot make planes safer ?
Using e.g. <URL> , one can essentially show that with each new aircraft generation , the accident rate reduces . This answers your question about statistic involvement , but does n't really confirm a causal relationship , since it 's not only automation but e.g. also human machine interface ( flight deck ) design and system architecture that improves . However , I would assume there are quite probably at least some safety improvements due to automation in there . One would need to go about analysing the accident factors to prove this . As an interesting aside touching on this topic , a former colleague of mine flying commercial jets recently offered his first-hand view on different aircraft automation levels in <URL> . While not a comprehensive answer as such , I hope the links allow you to pursue this a bit further .
Short answer : Yes . But only for a moment . As you suggest , let 's focus on the 90 ° case , because many things will become simpler . Intermediate climb angles can be covered by a linear superposition of horizontal and vertical flight . Now we shoot up at 90 ° flight path angle ( engine thrust permitting ) and leave some angle of attack for the wing to create lift . Lift acts orthogonally to the local flow direction , so the lift will pull the aircraft sideways ( up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . Since there is no other force which will oppose this lift ( drag , weight and thrust all act at 90 ° to the lift , parallel to the flight path ) , the aircraft will accelerate sideways ( again , up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . The angle of attack will immediately decrease and lift creation will stop -- or the pilot forces the angle of attack to stay constant by pulling the elevator , and now the aircraft will further increase its flight path angle . That is a complicated way of saying that the pilot forces the airplane into a loop . If he wants to maintain this 90 ° flight path angle , he better avoid creating any lift .
Short answer Fan : Aluminum , titanium , or stainless steel Compressor : Nickel - , cobalt - , or iron-based alloys . Additive are aluminum and/or titanium , chromium , as well as rare earth elements like yttrium . Combustion chamber : Superalloys with refractory metals such as tungsten , molybdenum , niobium , tantalum . Ceramics and ceramic-metal mixes . Turbine : Nickel-based superalloy , outside air is circulated through channels inside of the turbine blades . For lower pressure turbine blades iron-based superalloy or even stainless steel . The metals used for turbine blades are often grown as a single crystal . Exhaust nozzle : Nickel Inconel and stainless steel alloys . Casing : Aluminum or polymer matrix materials . The high-pressure turbine is , with the combustion chamber , very hot ( more than the exhaust nozzle ) . You may read this <URL> which has a short list of materials used for turbine blades ( with <URL> and cooling techniques ) . Engine structure ( turbofan ) <URL> ( source : <URL> ) ( To understand temperatures and pressures , remember the fan pushes about one ton of air per second in high power turbofans . ) All quotes are from <URL> , 2007 , except stated otherwise . In 1903 , the Wright brothers built an aluminum block engine because of its light weight compared to cast iron . Its melting point of 660 ° C was well above the engine 's operating temperature , so for them it was a good choice . However , aluminum could not be used in the hotter parts of a turbine engine where temperatures reach of 1800 ° C or more because it would melt . Fan This typically does not get very hot ( < 150 ° C ) so aluminum , titanium , or stainless steel are all suitable for the fan blades . Most engines use titanium because it has a high strength-to-weight ratio , is corrosion and fatigue resistant , and would be able to withstand the impact of a bird strike . Compressor section The pressure of the air can be raised up to 30 times and the temperature , depending on the number of stages in the compressor , can rise to 1000 ° C . Here the materials must have high strength at high temperatures ; must resist fatigue , cracking , and oxidation ; and also must resist " creep . " Creep is the tendency of a material to slowly change shape when stressed at high temperature . Since no single metal would have all the desired properties , an alloy ( a mixture of metals ) is used . Very high - temperature alloys are called superalloys and are generally nickel - , cobalt - , or iron-based alloys . Aluminum and/or titanium are added for strength , and chromium , as well as rare earth elements like yttrium , are added to improve corrosion resistance . Combustion chamber Temperatures can exceed 1800 ° C and again superalloys are used , but without the titanium or aluminum for strength because there are no moving parts . Instead , refractory metals are often added to a superalloy . These are metals of unusually high resistance to heat , corrosion , and wear such as tungsten , molybdenum , niobium , tantalum , and rhenium . They are used in alloys and not as pure metals because they are among the densest of all the elements , a negative property when it comes to aircraft that need to keep weight to a minimum . Ceramics and ceramic-metal mixes are also used here because of their high heat resistance . We are familiar with pottery , tile , crucibles , and fire bricks as types of ceramics . They have very high melting points and do n't require the cooling systems like those needed to keep metals from melting so they make for lighter , less complicated engine parts . The down side is that they tend to fracture under stress , so engineers seek to create new ceramics composites that incorporate other materials to improve properties . Turbine <URL> High-pressure turbine blade ( source : <URL> ) The first set of turbine blades are in the highest pressure , hottest part of the gas flow and are generally made of nickel-based superalloy or ceramic blades . Unheated outside air is circulated through channels inside of the turbine blades to keep them from melting in this extreme environment . Further down the engine lower pressure turbine blades often sit . Since the gases have somewhat cooled by this point , the blades can be made of iron-based superalloy or even stainless steel . It is interesting to note that for strength , the metals used for turbine blades are often grown as a single crystal . A close look at most metals and alloys show that they are composed of crystals ( also called " grains " ) , and the places where the crystals meet are called grain boundaries . A material is weaker at the grain boundaries than within the grains -- especially at high temperatures -- so turbine blades fashioned from metal formed as a single grain ( no boundaries ) are stronger . See <URL> ( known as monocrystalline material in electronics ) . Exhaust <URL> Exhaust from Boeing 787 engine ( GEnx , one of the world 's largest jet engine - <URL> ) From <
There are two separate aural warnings that you might be referring to : one is indeed called ' Triple Click ' and consists of three brief clicks , but is emitted when the landing capability becomes degraded or the autopilot otherwise changes mode . The warning generated upon autopilot disconnection , instead , is the so-called ' Cavalry Charge ' and consists of three longer beeping sounds ; it 's either played once or repeated continuously ( cases 1 and 2 below ) . From a table in the Airbus A320 FCOM , DSC-31-10 P 4/6 : TRIPLE CLICK Meaning : Landing capability downgrade or some cases of mode reversion . Duration : 0.5 s ( 3 pulses ) CAVALRY CHARGE Meaning : A/P disconnection by takeover push-button . A/P disconnection due to failure . Duration : 1.5 s Permanent Cancellation : Second push on takeover push-button . Press Master Warning light or takeover push-button . See <URL> ( at 2:52 ) for a cavalry charge immediately followed by a triple click ( thank you <URL> ) .
Statistically , there has got to be graphs you can combine to show the number of airplane crashes to fatalities and a graph with skydives ( without a chute/malfunctions ) to fatalities . I 'd venture to say that the odds are far greater to surviving an airplane crash than a freefall . Let 's look at the factors ... A freefall : your velocity in not slowed by anything your body is not protected by anything you have no control on where to ' crash ' A crash landing : passengers are slowed greatly by the aircraft passengers are greatly protected physically ( airframes are designed to minimize risks from explosions , shrapnel , and crash G 's ) there is a greater chance the aircraft can be controlled somewhat to crash in the best place . The only time it would be better to jump without a parachute is if you are <URL> or the aircraft is about to be <URL> .
Airframe parachutes are becoming an increasingly popular option on newly-certificated aircraft , thanks in part to the track record of successful deployments on Cirrus aircraft . If I had to speculate on why they 're not showing up in older certificated designs ( like the Piper PA-28 or the Cessna 172 &amp; 182 ) I 'd go with the reason I mentioned in my comment : " New " Pipers and Cessnas are basically extended manufacturing runs of very old designs - going on 50 + years . Changing an existing aircraft design to include the required hardpoints , breakaway panels , etc. for a parachute system would be a substantial change to the type certificate , and under Part 23 certification rules doing so would cost the manufacturer an equally-substantial sum of money for the design , engineering , and testing required . Light GA aircraft sales at the moment are , shall we say , lackluster -- the additional costs for the engineering , the type certificate update , and the parachute itself would certainly not help matters , as that cost would need to be passed along to the eventual purchaser of parachute-equipped aircraft ( which would probably mean putting a 50 + year old classic Piper or Cessna design in the same price category as a clean-sheet Cirrus SR20/SR22 ) . In addition to the mainly-financial reasons above <URL> has a point regarding weight . <URL> . This kit costs about 80 pounds of useful load , and on many light GA aircraft the useful load is marginal enough that this added weight means you 're effectively sacrificing a passenger to the installation . The Cessna retrofit kit also takes up a substantial amount of space in the baggage compartment <URL> , which is certainly a negative factor as well . Were the chute to be incorporated into the design by Cessna it would likely be installed in a similar location ( there just are n't many other places to put it ) with a similar cost in weight and cargo space .
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
Yes it is possible , although it is kind of hard to prove it over the internet .1 When a teenager I lived under the approach path of Westover AFB . My friends and I had no difficulty at all distinguishing among these types by sound alone : Douglas DC-3 Douglas DC-7 Boeing 707 Douglas DC-8 Lockheed L-188 Electra Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation Convair B-36 Boeing B-47 Stratojet Boeing B-52 Stratofortress Convair F-102 Delta Dagger ( singly or flights of two or four ) Lockheed F-104 Starfighter ( singly or flights of two or four ) North American F-100 Super Sabre ( singly or flights of two or four ) We only looked up when some other type flew over . 1 . This line is an homage to kevin who said it first .
Turning Radius , as found in a planning document : 28.7 m for a Boeing 777-200 34.7 m for a Boeing 777-300 Rotating around one a point a bit off the wing to allow both wheels to roll throughout . Minimum Pavement Width 47.5 m for a Boeing 777-200 56.0 m for a Boeing 777-300 <URL> <URL> <URL> Be aware that this is not exactly ideal - visibility from the flightdeck is not great and you do not want the gear running into the grass or edge lights . An <URL> screwed up in Warsaw not too long ago when trying to pull this stunt . Since this width is not normally provided by the runway ( even Heathrow only has 45m and 50m runway width ) , you will add turning pads at the end unless there are taxiways you can use instead . <URL>
There is a similar ruling since last week . The use of electronic equipment as long as they are in " flight mode " during all phases of flight was already allowed in Europe by EASA since <URL> . Since last week ( <URL> ) EASA also allows phones to be on and connected throughout the flight . This allows for WiFi services , phone services and Bluetooth battles during the flight . Before allowing the use of these electronics in flight , airlines have to assess the impact of the signals transmitted by the mobile devices on the aircraft , ensuring aircraft systems are not affected . For this reason mobile communication will not be allowed by all airlines on all flights at once .
Climbing further while cruising is saving fuel , not wasting it . First , every airplane has an <URL> for most economical cruise . If it loses mass ( due to fuel consumed ) , it needs to adjust either its altitude or its speed to keep that angle of attack . The goal is to keep dynamic pressure , the product of air density and the square of airspeed , constant . Since you want to reach your destination in the shortest time , climbing into less dense air is the better option . Secondly , gas turbines need less fuel per unit of thrust when flying in colder air . As long as the plane stays in the <URL> , <URL> when it flies in colder air .
There is n't much non-flying duty for airline pilots . The most important is recurrent training . Pilots are required to attend a refresher course at least annually . This school covers regulations , aircraft systems , and performance . The performance part involves computing weight and balance , airfield/weather restrictions , fuel required , etc ( basically the same thing as a Cessna 172 , but with much bigger numbers ) . Additionally , full flight simulators are used to teach and/or evaluate normal and non-normal ( we do n't get emergencies anymore ) procedure . This training is usually concurrent with the groundschool . Pilots are required to maintain their approach charts and aircraft manuals ; changes come frequently . A junior First Officer will spend an eternity ( at least it seems like it ) doing standby duty . This involves being available to take the place of any pilot who calls in sick or is otherwise unavailable . All pilots must pass a flight physical . The implication is that they must maintain themselves in at least minimal health . I hope this at least partially answers your question .
3D printing is unlikely to make anything cheaper in the near future . With current printing technologies it 's an order or magnitude or two more expensive per unit than volume manufacturing techniques such as extrusion or injection moulding . It 's notable that the company you link to chose to make a supercar rather than a low-cost small car . There 's little price competition in that market , as brand loyalty dominates . Most supercars are bought as status symbols or for fun rather than for their actual road performance . Most of the incumbents manufacture very small runs with a lot of hand assembly : exactly the kind of manufacturing that 3D printing is competitive for . On top of that , because of the status symbol marketing , there 's huge room for new players to differentiate based on a green image . Tesla has done this in the last few years , which is why some of DMF 's marketing material focuses on dissing electric cars . Runs are small in GA too , so there 's potentially a wider niche for these techniques to fit into . The market that would most closely fit IMO is kit aircraft . A kit that 's primarily 3D printed parts joined by standard spars , with a flexible outer shell , could have shorter lead times and less tooling cost . After discussing this with some mechanical engineer colleagues today , they pointed out how 3D printing of metals is now being used as a complement to CNC machining in the rocket industry . For a part that has to be machined from a single piece of metal , they 3D print a shell that 's slightly larger than the required shape , and then machine it to the correct shape . It allows you to achieve the tolerances you get from machining ( which 3D printing ca n't yet deliver ) , but without the waste you get from cutting down a solid block . It 's an aside to the main question , but it 's a way that 3D printing could be used to reduce the cost of some components and allow designs that would have been economically infeasible .
There are a several theft-deterrent mechanisms in place . On small airplanes , most commonly , the door to the airplane itself is usually locked with a key . ( Notice the key cylinder in this picture below the silver door handle : Prop locks : Throttle locks : A lot of airplanes do have an ignition key which you turn to engage the starter . Of course , as <URL> , this can be circumvented by hand-propping ( which is a very dangerous endeavor for unskilled people who have n't done it before ) You would have to know how to operate the basic systems of the airplane as well as how to fly . <URL> Fences and other physical security measures around airports .
The reason for not using full aircraft parachutes can be stitched together by looking at the many related questions . Let me do this for you : Parachutes will only help when something essential fails at <URL> . As paul said <URL> , most accidents happen at take-off and landing where a parachute can not be successfully deployed . Parachutes big enough to slow down a whole airliner will be very heavy , reducing payload and increasing the number of flights to transport the same number of passengers . The biggest parachutes designed so far were for the <URL> , and <URL> gave their mass a 3 x 990 kg plus 550 kg for the drogue chute . Wikipedia gives the mass of one SRB at 91,000 kg . Scale this for the zero-fuel mass of an <URL> of 62,500 kg , and the mass will be approx . 2,500 kg . That is equivalent to 25 passengers , or 16 % of the A-320 's capacity . Adding the parachute will translate into 16 % more flights , just to compensate for parachute mass . This is most likely underestimating the true impact because I did not add the mass for structural reinforcements . The opening shock at travel speed would destroy both airplane and chutes . If we want the parachute system to work in as many cases as possible , we need to make deployment possible at up to Mach 0.85 , and then the maximum g-load on aircraft and passengers must not exceed 6 g. ( See <URL> for <URL> which give time - and direction-dependent limits for the maximum deceleration a human being can survive ) . This is possible with staggered deployment of several chutes with increasing size , and by sewing parts of the canopy and the parachute 's strings together , so they can rip apart during opening , which slows the unfolding process . But I expect that this will add to the mass of the parachute system . It will certainly add to the mass of the aircraft 's structure , which is currently limited to <URL> g. By looking at point 2 above alone , it becomes clear that the addition of parachutes will most likely drive up air travel casualties . If we need 16 % more flights to make the cruise part less dangerous , and still <URL> ( which are now 16 % more numerous ) , we gain little . Crashes now involve less passengers , but their number goes up . Tickets will become 20 % more expensive at least ( more if the parachute system costs something , which is very likely ) , and we all know how the majority of passengers votes when faced with a choice of dearer , somewhat safer flights and 20 % cheaper flights at almost the same accident risk .
This varies based on if you are VFR or IFR certified . Basic currency requirements for general aviation flying under part 91 which I presume is the target of this question . The comments to the answer outline the commercial implications , can be found in <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , and -- ( i ) The person acted as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; and ( ii ) The required takeoffs and landings were performed in an aircraft of the same category , class , and type ( if a type rating is required ) , and , if the aircraft to be flown is an airplane with a tailwheel , the takeoffs and landings must have been made to a full stop in an airplane with a tailwheel . ... [ read on for IFR and night currency ] However the FAA actually views using the auto-pilot as manipulating the controls . You can find <URL> . But in short , The FAA considers a pilot 's use and management of the autopilot to be the equivalent of manipulating the controls , just as one manages other flight control systems , such as trim or a yaw dampener . The autopilot system 's sophistication does not affect a pilot 's responsibility to manipulate and manage all control systems , including an autopilot , appropriately . Therefore , a pilot may log PIC flight time as the sole manipulator of the controls for the time in which he or she engages an autopilot . With that in mind you can maintain your currency using only auto-pilot and in theory if your plane and the desired airport was equipped for <URL> ( which , as far as I know , no GA planes are ) you could maintain your currency without physically manipulating the yoke aside from takeoff and climb to autopilot altitude . So no there is no legal obligation to physically touch the controls to maintain currency if your plane is capable of some kind of completely programmable flight ( I do n't think any are currently ) . There is however one notable exception to this regulation . On an IFR checkride you must fly a manual approach , <URL> ... • The applicant must accomplish at least two nonprecision approaches in simulated or actual weather conditions . At least one must be flown without the use of autopilot and without the assistance of radar vectors . The yaw damper and flight director are not considered parts of the autopilot for purposes of this Task . It claims to do everything for you within 50 feet of the ground . This is a bit misleading . First off , most , if not all GA planes lack <URL> so power management is in the hands of the pilot and is fully manual in most cases . Some more modern airplanes like the <URL> which loops prop and throttle controls to one lever minimizing but not eliminating manual control . There are <URL> and function varies heavily : some only have a single axis ( heading hold and adjust capability ) . Some have 2 axes which can hold altitude and headings and some which have the ability to follow GPS courses , fly approaches down to different minimums etc. . It should be noted that some units can be set to create situations that can stall the aircraft or otherwise put it in a dangerous flight scenario , the auto in autopilot does not mean absolute protection or full automation . If so , can it be remotely piloted ? This is actually a completely separate question if you are asking " do I need to physically be inside the aircraft " i.e. " can I maintain currency with a drone if it 's properly equipped " . I do n't think the FAA has fully fledged regulations on this yet . If by remote you mean by use of autopilot , see above .
The A380 has a total waste tank capacity of or , <URL> . B. Capacity There are four waste tanks , two upper deck tanks and two main deck tanks , see FIGURE 5-4-10-991-003-A . ( 1 ) Upper Deck Waste-Tanks - 373 l ( 99 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 2 ) Main Deck Waste-Tanks - 675 l ( 178 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 3 ) Total Waste Tank Capacity - 2096 l ( 554 US gal ) . The size will vary for each aircraft type , the <URL> . Smaller General Aviation aircraft do not have lavatories , this depends on aircraft size and purpose . The average Cessna will not have lavatories either , pilots have to plan their stops properly or rely on accessory such as the TravelJohn . Larger General Aviation aircraft such as smaller jets and aircraft designed for more than 4 passengers are more likely to have lavatories on board . ( Image Source : <URL> ) There is no dumping system for waste tanks , mostly for hygienic and environmental reasons , as the waste tanks are not only filled with fecal and thus biological matter , but also with chemicals .
Other folks have already addressed why we want to lock the flight controls when we leave the aircraft - " to prevent damage from gusts of wind " , and " to keep the plane from doing interesting things in a strong breeze " . To the question of the " best " position to lock controls in , for light aircraft the general consensus is that the rudder and ailerons should be locked in the neutral position - In this position any wind blowing over the wings will cause them to lift uniformly , putting tension on the tiedown ropes holding the aircraft to the ground . ( If the ailerons are locked at an angle one wing will generate more lift than the other , allowing one of the tiedown ropes to go slack . ) Elevators are a subject of a little more nuance and debate : It 's generally considered best to lock the elevator in the " nose down " position ( because any gusts of wind over the tail will push the nose down , rather than encouraging the nose to lift , this also means that those gusts will apply tension to a tie-down rope located at the tail rather than causing it to go slack ) . On some aircraft locking the elevator in the nose-down ( or nose-up ) position opens up spaces that birds may try to nest in ( <URL> ) - some pilots prefer to lock the elevator of these aircraft in the neutral position to discourage avian visitors . Generally it 's better to lock the controls than leave them unlocked to bang around in the wind , so on some light aircraft not equipped with control locks pilots use the seatbelt to hold the controls in place . This often results in a " sub-optimal " control position ( elevator fully nose-up , ailerons full-deflection left or right ) , but because the wind speed at which control surfaces may bang against their stops is usually lower than the speed at which the aerodynamically unfavorable control positions will substantially affect the aircraft this is a " lesser of two evils " approach .
It all depends on the autopilot , but generally no . If for example , you tell the autopilot to climb at 300 fpm , it will keep adjusting pitch to do just that . As you climb higher ( without changing the power ) the autopilot will keep increasing pitch to maintain the set vertical speed . Eventually the airplane will get too slow because of the increased pitch and can even stall . Some autopilots have pitch limits or monitor the stall inputs and automatically disconnect before it gets to this point , but others do n't . It is very important to know your autopilot and to monitor it at all times to make sure that it is doing what you want .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
end question
start question
Are two people required in cockpit at all times on large commercial aircraft ?
EDIT : please see at the bottom of the answer the update from EASA Are two people required in cockpit at all times on large commercial aircraft ? No . From <URL> : ( emphasis mine ) CAT.OP.MPA .210 Crew members at stations Flight crew members During take-off and landing each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall be at the assigned station . During all other phases of flight each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall remain at the assigned station , unless absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation or for physiological needs , provided at least one suitably qualified pilot remains at the controls of the aircraft at all times . During all phases of flight each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall remain alert . If a lack of alertness is encountered , appropriate countermeasures shall be used . If unexpected fatigue is experienced , a controlled rest procedure , organised by the commander , may be used if workload permits . Controlled rest taken in this way shall not be considered to be part of a rest period for purposes of calculating flight time limitations nor used to justify any extension of the duty period . Do any airlines enforce such a rule ? As <URL> mention , yes . EDIT : On the 27th March 2015 EASA has issued the following <URL> : operators are recommended to implement procedures requiring at least two persons authorised in accordance with CAT.GEN.MPA .135 to be in the flight crew compartment at all times , or other equivalent mitigating measures to address risks identified by the operator 's revised assessment . This still does not mean that 2 people are required , but are recommended .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
Accelerometers are used , however for lower latency and higher definition , tracking infrared emitters is the better choice1 . The A-10 as you wrote uses inertial or magnetic trackers . The Eurofighter helmet uses infrared tracking . <URL> ... the Typhoon 's HMSS features lower latency , higher definition , improved symbology and night vision . It 's the one on the left ( <URL> ) . You can already see it has an organic brain of its own ; those bumps are the IR LEDs <URL> .
( This answer is based on light aircraft in the US . ) Leaving aside any scenarios where you must file IFR ( class A , IMC ) and any where you ca n't ( pilot and/or aircraft not IFR-capable ) , it comes down to whether the ' overhead ' and benefits of operating IFR are worth it for your particular flight . By the way , your question seems to assume that IFR is required at night , but night VFR is legal in many countries . The ' overhead ' of operating IFR is firstly in planning : there are different rules for fuel reserves , altitudes , airspace , alternate airports , weather minimums etc. . Generally speaking you need more time and thought to prepare and file an IFR flight plan . Secondly , operating IFR potentially places a lot of restrictions on you : ATC can delay your takeoff , <URL> , put you in a hold , require position reports , and generally keep you busy . As a pilot , you have to perform at a ' higher ' - or at least different - level . For many people , that 's already reason enough to file VFR if conditions allow ( do n't forget that in the US there 's no need to talk to ATC at all on many flights ) . But the purpose of the flight is important too : IFR more or less assumes that you 're flying from A to B on a fairly direct route . If you 're training , or sightseeing , or dropping parachutists , or just flying around for the fun of it then IFR is n't really appropriate or useful . You can just <URL> instead , which gives you the benefits of ATC keeping an eye on you , without any of the IFR rules to follow . And regarding your comment about IFR letting you fly in more weather conditions , there 's a pilots ' saying in the southern US ( and probably many other places ) that " if the weather 's good , file IFR ; if it 's bad , file VFR " . The reason is that Florida and other southern states get a lot of convective activity and it 's very common to have to pick your way between thunderstorms and building cumulus towers to get where you 're going , or just for a more comfortable ride . By remaining in visual conditions you 're able to see what 's going on with the clouds and being VFR means you 're more or less free to change course and altitude as needed to avoid them . If you 're IFR , ATC may put you in a cloud layer where you ca n't see anything and vector you closer to the buildups than you 'd like . VFR just gives you a lot more options in general . Finally , are there any scenarios where only VFR is allowed , even for IFR-capable flights ? This might be different in different countries , but offhand I ca n't think of any in the US . IFR minimum altitudes are higher than VFR ones , so you ca n't fly IFR at 500 ' AGL , but I guess that 's not really what you 're thinking about . Maybe someone else will come up with something .
The FAA treats large airplanes the same as any other airplane when it comes to VFR flight . They are required to maintain the same distance from clouds , only fly with the same minimum visibility , see and avoid other aircraft , etc. . However , since only IFR flights are allowed above FL180 ( without a special exemption ) , and large turbine airplanes are terribly inefficient at low altitudes , so it does n't happen very often . In the US , Part 121 flights have the most restrictions of any of the operating rules , and they have multiple regulations relating to VFR flight , including this one1 : <URL> No person may dispatch or release an aircraft for VFR operation unless the ceiling and visibility en route , as indicated by available weather reports or forecasts , or any combination thereof , are and will remain at or above applicable VFR minimums until the aircraft arrives at the airport or airports specified in the dispatch or flight release . So yes , even if it is operated by a 121 carrier , they are allowed to fly VFR by the regulations . However , they must also comply with their Operations Specifications and Flight Operations Manuals which will have detailed procedures covering the conditions where it is allowed . Outside of 121 there are even fewer restrictions on VFR flight . 1 There is also : § 121.347 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes navigated by pilotage . § 121.349 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes not navigated by pilotage or for operations under IFR or over the top . § 121.649 - Takeoff and landing weather minimums : VFR : Domestic operations . § 121.667 - Flight plan : VFR and IFR : Supplemental operations .
I like to answer your question with a short example . A few days ago I flew to Venice ( untowered ) and decided for a teardrop entry to set up for the 45 . My calls were 10 and 5 miles out , both ending with " any traffic please advise " guess what I saw overtaking me on my 4 o'clock position only a few hundred feet away at same altitude ( 500 feet above pattern ) . It is legal to make a straight in , but before you think about the time or fuel you waste please think about your own and even the guys who 's not on CTAF and obviously heads down safety . If you fly the 45 and the continue the pattern ( it 's not allways left , check your sectional and the A/FD ) everybody knows what the other one is doing and if necessary can act accordingly .
Here are a few ideas : First and foremost , we 're not handling metals here . Composites have the advantage of being able to be made stronger by adding on a few layers around high-stress area like windows . This was difficult with metals since this needed some sort of fasteners or adhesives to do . This reinforcement is seen in the photo below . The windows are designed to keep an even pressure all around in the context of the fuselage shape at that point . You 'll notice the flange design which keeps the fuselage shape and stop it from popping open . This is a little like the thicker part of a bottle neck . This is very difficult ( if possible ) to do well in a metal fuselage to this extent . <URL> The usage is completely different . Concorde was a commercial aircraft , intended for many years of operation . This is a very low-cycle aircraft which will see a fraction of that flying . The number of pressurisation cycles is a lot lower , putting much less force on the windows . As for safety , the style of flying is completely different . Probably flown by test pilots , the aircraft might never even experience rain and will fly under very predictable conditions , with very few flight cycles . Periods of elevated temperatures gradually degrades many materials , this is much less a concern with short flights . If I gather correctly this is the main issue with sustained high-speed flight , as seen on Concorde and SR-71 and other aircraft . <URL> Composites have a lot lower thermal expansion ( CFRP vs. Aluminium is an order of magnitude lower ) which reduces issues with expansion in the fuselage . Concorde was a commercial aircraft with weight and operating price in mind . This aircraft is built for this purpose , with the windows considered as a main feature from the start . You could probably have been able to make the windows a lot larger on Concorde , at the unacceptable price of weight , production and operating cost . Needless to say that knowledge of materials and structures has advanced substantially , all our these features can be modelled in detail on computers , not necessitating the traditional conservative approach . As for redundancy , predecessor SpaceShipOne had double pane windows and double seals everywhere . For the passengers without suits , if a window were to blow entirely , you 're most probably out of luck .
Since there are actual projects for things like this I guess it is possible at least in principle : <URL> From the site : The main feature of the circular runway is that it will become possible to let an aircraft operate always at landing and take-off with headwind . Whatever its strength and direction , the Endless Runway becomes independent of the wind . When allowing limited crosswind , airspace users can shorten the global trajectory of the flights through optimized departure and arrival routes . Apart from that they seem to hope that they can start/land more airplanes per time unit by shifting the start/landing point thus avoiding the problem that airplanes must not follow other airplanes to close along the same trajectory .
Over Europe and many other parts of the world , the general rule is that if an aircraft in controlled airspace does not reply to instructions from Air Traffic Control , military jets will be scrambled to intercept the aircraft . Basically you are asking if there are exceptions to that rule . I think there are a few . First of all , ATC will not inform the military of every instruction that is not reacted to ; there would n't be enough jets . Pilots do miss instructions occasionally , sometimes aircraft are handed of to the wrong frequency by ATC , wrong frequencies are entered into the radio etc. . All these things usually sort themselves out in matter of minutes and it would be a waste of resources to scramble . If no contact is established after a certain amount of time , only then the military will be involved . However if an aircraft starts to deviate from earlier acknowledged instructions without reacting on the radio , it is safe to assume that the time to alert the military is considerably shorter . And then of course the aircraft must be in range of military jets . An aircraft halfway across the Atlantic is simply too far out for most interceptors so until the aircraft is getting closer to shore I do n't think there is much reason to scramble jets . Some more information about loss of communications , causes and prevention can be found in this <URL> . For obvious reasons the exact procedures for scrambling military aircraft are not publicly available .
In general , they do n't . U.S. airlines generally allow you to use your phones as soon as the plane lands . Southwest : Effective today , Southwest Customers with cell phones onboard may begin using them after the flight attendant gives permission to do so upon landing at the destination and taxi to the airport gate . Source : <URL> Delta : Use of cellular devices prior to takeoff is not allowed per Delta policy so that flight attendants may properly prepare the cabin for departure and conduct safety demonstrations uninterrupted . Cellular devices may be used upon landing as instructed by the cabin crew . Source : <URL> Perhaps of interest , the rule against using cell phone during flight in the U.S. is not an FAA Federal Aviation Regulation . It is instead an FCC ( Federal Communications Commission ) regulation designed to prevent interference to the cell network as a result of thousands of phones flying around at 600 mph hitting hundreds of cell stations at once . In general , the FCC acknowledges that this rule is outdated and that this is no longer an issue for the current cell network . As such , <URL> . However , some airlines ( including Delta and Southwest ) have <URL> , as the majority of their customers have indicated that they do n't want to listen to their neighbors chatting on a cell phone for hours on end . Delta will not allow cellular calls or internet-based voice communications onboard Delta or Delta Connection flights . Our customer research and direct feedback tell us that our frequent flyers believe voice calls in the cabin would be a disruption to the travel experience . In fact , a clear majority of customers who responded to a 2012 survey said they felt the ability to make voice calls onboard would detract from -- not enhance -- their experience . Delta employees , particularly our in-flight crews , have told us definitively that they are not in favor of voice calls onboard . - <URL>
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
In an event of failure of all engines of a commercial aircraft in mid air ... That would be a very rare event . In the modern cases where this has happened within an ATC area , it has not prevented location of the aircraft so far as I know . ... and no secondary backup or generators powering the plane Even a two-engined airliner has an Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) and a Ram-Air Turbine ( RAT ) . I believe they also typically have 10-15 minutes <URL> for critical systems . I do n't know if any airliner has ever lost all generators other than in cases where the aircraft was destroyed in flight ( e.g. PanAm 103 ) . would the ATC still be able to detect the aircraft with accuracy If an aircraft 's transponder and secondary-radar are not operating , ATC would rely on primary radar , which is less accurate , particularly for altitude . They would also ask the pilots for their position over VHF radio and ask other aircraft in the area to locate the aircraft . Example : <URL> All four engines flamed out due to ingestion of volcanic ash . Despite the crew " squawking " the emergency transponder setting of 7700 , the aeroplane could not be located by Air Traffic Control on their radar screens . The pilot communicated with ATC over VHF radio and later restarted the engines . The engines had enough electrical power to restart because one generator and the onboard batteries were still operating Example <URL> ( the " Gimli Glider " ) This 767 ran out of fuel mid-air and all engines stopped . The 767 was one of the first airliners to include an Electronic Flight Instrument System ( EFIS ) , which operated on the electricity generated by the aircraft 's jet engines . With both engines stopped , the system went dead , leaving only a few basic battery-powered emergency flight instruments . The pilot communicated with ATC Winnipeg and First Officer Maurice Quintal began to calculate whether they could reach Winnipeg . He used the altitude from one of the mechanical backup instruments , while the distance traveled was supplied by the air traffic controllers in Winnipeg , measuring the distance the aircraft 's echo moved on their radar screens . So yes , If the aircraft with all engines out is in radar range and ATC are attentive , they can track the aircraft 's location .
Apparently , the answer is never . After several days of searching , I was unable to find anything in the FARs that requires the pilot of a small aircraft that is NOT being flown " for-hire " , to have flotation devices on board , for a flight over water , regardless of the distance from shore . Section 91.205 requires flotation devices , but only for flights " for hire " over water . So this section does n't apply to this question . Then , there is section 91.509 ( 12 ) which requires flotation and other survival gear for flights 50 nm , or 30 min out from shore , but this entire section is under Subpart F - Large and Turbine-Powered Muti-engine Airplanes and Factional Ownership Program Aircraft . So this entire section does n't apply to this question either .
I 'd say this is quite common on flights that require at least 3 pilots due to length . The third pilot is almost assuredly going to be qualified as a first officer and this is the common staffing strategy with the US carriers that I am familiar with . Three pilots ( by US flag rules ) are going to be required for 8-12 hour flights and you 'll find that US carriers often will staff a third pilot even on the shorter US east coast < - > western Europe flights . But what must the three pilot composition be ? Lets examine <URL> the requirement to relieve a PIC ( excepted ) : § 121.543 Flight crewmembers at controls . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , each required flight crewmember on flight deck duty must remain at the assigned duty station with seat belt fastened while the aircraft is taking off or landing , and while it is en route . ( b ) A required flight crewmember may leave the assigned duty station -- ( 3 ) If the crewmember is taking a rest period , and relief is provided -- ( i ) In the case of the assigned pilot in command during the en route cruise portion of the flight , by a pilot who holds an airline transport pilot certificate not subject to the limitations in § 61.167 of this chapter and an appropriate type rating , is currently qualified as pilot in command or second in command , and is qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight . A second in command qualified to act as a pilot in command en route need not have completed the following pilot in command requirements : The 6-month recurrent flight training required by § 121.433 ( c ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) ; the operating experience required by § 121.434 ; the takeoffs and landings required by § 121.439 ; the line check required by § 121.440 ; and the 6-month proficiency check or simulator training required by § 121.441 ( a ) ( 1 ) ; The limitations of <URL> mentioned above mean those under the age of 23 are not eligible to relieve the PIC . What does it mean to be " qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight ? " The closest I can find to answer that is in <URL> which says to be act as a PIC you must have an ATP and be at least 23 years old , have a type rating and have at least 1000 hours combined from part 121 SIC , part 91.1053 ( a ) ( 2 ) ( i ) PIC , part 135.243 ( a ) ( 1 ) PIC time . What this means practically , is that a second in command who holds an ATP , is at least 23 years old , is type rated in the airplane , is qualified as a second in command , and has at least 1000 hours SIC time with any airline may relieve a PIC during en-route flight . This is further reinforced by the remainder of the quoted portion of 121.543 that says an SIC qualified as PIC need not have any of the required checks a PIC must have ( line check , 6 month sim check , etc ) . At a major airline it is likely that SIC have ATPs and are type rated during initial training and most major new-hires will be older than 23 . It is also likely they have prior airline experience to give them 1000 hours SIC . Even if they do n't have that experience , they 'll have it in a 18 months or less after being hired . This means that pretty much any FO at the airline and surely any FO who has been there for a year or two is going to be qualified to relieve a PIC . Because an FO can relieve the PIC and can also relieve an SIC , the third pilot need only be an FO . This means our crew of three will be one captain and two first officers . Given the economics involved and the behavior of US airlines when it comes to costs , they will staff an FO wherever they can versus staffing a captain . To bring this full circle , back to our 8-12 hour flights to/from the US by US carriers that require 3 pilots they will almost always be flown by two first officers during the en-route portion of the flight . I 'm not familiar with non-US regs , so this might not apply . Given that air carrier rules by the FAA are compatible with ICAO though , I 'd guess that this is the common case in other jurisdictions as well .
Inertial Reference System is a solid state set of <URL> which navigate using <URL> . The system measures accelerations in and rotation around each of the 3 axis so can calculate where it is by adding how much it has moved to the initial position . A simple example : The aircraft is stationary pointing North . Over a 10 minute period , it measures the accelerations in the X and Y axis and calculates that is has moved +100 kms in the X axis ( i.e. North ) and +100 kms in the Y axis ( i.e. West ) . By simple trigonometry , we can calculate that the aircraft is approximately 141.4 kms on a bearing of 45 degrees from it 's initial position . The gyros must be aligned with the aircraft frame of reference when it is stationary . This is the " alignment " process and generally must be completed before the aircraft moves . It may also take inputs of the current position from a manual keyboard or from some other system , e.g. GPS . More modern IRS fits can align when the aircraft is moving , taking an updated position from GPS . There are 2 systems on the 737 , simply for redundancy . <URL>
There is no regulation against doing so provided that the third person in the cockpit is type rated for PIC privileges on the aircraft and has a waiver from the FAA to operate the aircraft as a single pilot ( they are available with some additional training . ) In practice , this would almost never occur both for safety reasons and cost . In addition full motion simulators are available for most aircraft type rated for a two person flight crew , so it would just be more feasible to carry out the training in one of these using simulated IMC , which is arguably more realistic and accurate than flying the real thing under the hood .
It depends on the aircraft . In any aircraft where the two control columns are linked , there 's only one input to command the control surfaces . While most smaller aircraft are connected directly through the control surfaces , Boeing publicizes that on the 787 - a fly-by-wire aircraft - the control columns " <URL> " On Airbus aircraft ( and probably others ) , the controls are not linked : there is no indication on one pilot 's controls of the other 's position . The computer handles this by adding the two inputs : opposite commands will cancel each other out , while both pilots commanding the same input will <URL> . Some Airbus aircraft have a feature which makes an announcement of " DUAL INPUT " when there is input on both sidesticks simultaneously . As of <URL> , this was " an installation " ( optional feature , I believe ) on the A320 and under development for the A340 . Airbus aircraft also have a <URL> , which lets one pilot take control and have the airplane ignore inputs from the other sidestick . As Farhan noted , good <URL> is also very important to ensure that only one command is given at once . Some aircraft have linked controls , which can be separated if necessary . On the 767 , if sufficient force is applied , the elevators will " split " : each control column will control one of the elevators . The pilot who is stronger or better prepared will have <URL> . There 's also the <URL> : The roll input is ... linked at the control column [ . ] Each yoke independently controls its own aileron -- the CA yoke only flies the left aileron and the FO yoke the right aileron . It is only through the control column linkage that each yoke can control the whole airplane . It is done this way so that if there is a problem with a cable jamming , the control interlock can be disconnected and at least half control regained .
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
The STCA ( Short Term Conflict Alert ) or pre-alert settings depend on the radar client in use and the ACC 's or ARTCC 's own standard operation procedures . Some ATC systems give a warning before a loss of separation can occur if criteria are met , informing the controller of a possible conflict . Factors can be clearing aircraft on the same altitude / flight level , aircraft on converging flight profiles , lateral or vertical separation reducing below threshold values , e.g. where 5nm lateral separation is required , a STCA could be set to occur at 7nm lateral separation . The minimum radar separation between aircraft depends on airspace ( <URL> ) , aircraft equipment and airspace separation requirements ( <URL> ) , flight rules ( e.g. IFR to VFR is not separated outside class C airspace in Germany ) or local rules imposed by the Civil Aviation Authority . The general rule of thumb for IFR separation in most countries ( as most countries follow RVSM rules ) : 5nm lateral separation enroute ( upper airspace ) 3nm lateral separation in TMA area ( lower airspace ) 1.000 ft vertical separation in lower and upper airspace where RVSM is observed and aircraft equipped 2.000 ft vertical separation in non-RVSM airspace or between aircraft not equipped for RVSM Oceanic separation is achieved differently , as non-radar procedures are in place . The separation in non-radar environments is achieved procedurally and through position reports and timing .
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
end question
start question
Is the A380 ailerons ' kinematic modified in alternate law ?
Valse Des Ailerons ( Waltz of Ailerons ) or VDA is a nickname for the Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) which is part of the flight control system . LAF uses all ailerons and spoiler 6 to 8 to alleviate the fatigue and static loads on the wings by reducing the wing bending moment . It consist of various sub functions dealing with passive load alleviation ( based on commanded load factor from normal law ) and active load control based on measured accelerations in pylons under the wing . From this it already follows that passive load alleviation requires normal law for load factor inputs . There is a document circulating on the internet which seems to be an official Airbus Pilot Briefing for A380 pilots called " Flight Deck and Systems Briefing for pilots , issue 2 " . In the section about the Flight Control Systems under auxiliary system the following is said about the LAF : Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) The objective of the LAF is to reduce structure fatigue and static loads on the wing during maneuvers and turbulence . Spoilers 6 to 8 and all the ailerons are involved in the LAF . The LAF is available in normal law only . ( Emphasis added by me ) So your feeling that Valse des Ailerons is only active in Normal Law is correct . Update : Based on the A380 flight crew manual , it depends -- <URL> <URL>
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
The key piece of knowledge to understand a FBW system is that you need to differentiate between signalling and actuation . signalling is what tells the control surface to move and to what position . In old airplanes , this was by steel wires . In FBW airplanes it 's by copper wires carrying an electrical voltage . actuation is what actually moves the controls surfaces to the commanded position , the muscles . Traditionally this is hydraulics , but you can also find electric actuators these days . For the Airbus , Normal , Alternate &amp; Direct all use electrical signalling ( whether produced by computers or not ) . But what to do if there 's no electrics ? That 's Mechanical backup , where you have steel-wire signalling of specific surfaces .
Valse Des Ailerons ( Waltz of Ailerons ) or VDA is a nickname for the Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) which is part of the flight control system . LAF uses all ailerons and spoiler 6 to 8 to alleviate the fatigue and static loads on the wings by reducing the wing bending moment . It consist of various sub functions dealing with passive load alleviation ( based on commanded load factor from normal law ) and active load control based on measured accelerations in pylons under the wing . From this it already follows that passive load alleviation requires normal law for load factor inputs . There is a document circulating on the internet which seems to be an official Airbus Pilot Briefing for A380 pilots called " Flight Deck and Systems Briefing for pilots , issue 2 " . In the section about the Flight Control Systems under auxiliary system the following is said about the LAF : Load Alleviation Function ( LAF ) The objective of the LAF is to reduce structure fatigue and static loads on the wing during maneuvers and turbulence . Spoilers 6 to 8 and all the ailerons are involved in the LAF . The LAF is available in normal law only . ( Emphasis added by me ) So your feeling that Valse des Ailerons is only active in Normal Law is correct . Update : Based on the A380 flight crew manual , it depends -- <URL> <URL>
A shortcut is a deviation from the filed flightplan given to an aircraft by ATC during the flight , if traffic and other factors permit . A flight crew can not expect to get any shortcuts , so they can not plan for it . Routes in the RAD are flightplannable routes . If a direct route is available in the RAD , it can be used when filing the flightplan , prior to the flight . This allows airlines to plan for the shorter route , thus allowing them to bring less fuel and advertise a shorter flight time .
The air moves around the fuselage , which causes a localized increase in velocity around the aircraft . This increase in velocity causes a slight decrease in the outside air pressure , which effectively sucks air out of the fuselage , making the cabin at a slightly higher pressure altitude . The effect is localized . While the reduction in pressure , and increase in pressure altitude inside the cabin is small , many GA aircraft display a 40 foot or so difference in pressure altitude between the alternate static port ( inside the aircraft ) and the pressure altitude with the factory static port .
I ca n't say if anyone has looked at a short-haul version of the A380 , but we can look to the Boeing <URL> for comparison . In addition to removing the wingtip extensions and winglets as described in the Wikipedia article , a friend at Boeing described to me other changes needed . Boeing beefed up the wing box due to the increased landing cycles . There were also some changes to the brakes to improve cooling as the short flights did n't provide adequate time to cool the brakes passively . It should be noted that ANA was the only customer with 19 aircraft built . They retired the last of them 3 years ago . So it would appear that there is n't much of a market for a short haul jumbo .
For the GA fleet , there is some historical precedent operating here . Years ago , engines were much less reliable than they are today . Dragging it in generally means that you can not glide it in if you have a complete power failure . This translates to saying in the event of an engine failure , you are landing off airport with limited selection of landing sites ( your altitude is low as you are now below pattern altitude ) . So if you are flying behind an old Curtis OX-5 in your Jenny , a gliding approach to landing was recommended back in the day . Engines are much more reliable today . After an analysis of landing accidents , the FAA determined that a stabilized approach to landing is less likely to result in an accident , and they changed their guidance accordingly . Stabilized approaches are partial power-on landings . Some old timers and some old time CFIs reject the FAA 's statistical analysis and still teach/fly glide-it-in landings . Properly executed , both approaches to landing are safe . It is just that the FAA thinks that stabilized approaches are safer given engines commonly in use today . It is also true that virtually all airlines require stabilized approaches in their operating specs , and that a go around is mandatory if the approach is not stabilized . With this in mind , flight schools that aspire to send their graduates to the majors will all teach stabilized approaches .
From the FAA Instrument Procedures Handbook , section 6-4 : " The 600-2 and 800-2 rules , or any exceptions , only apply to flight planning purposes , while published landing minimums apply to the actual approach at the alternate . "
Well , pretty much anything can be given a US airworthiness certificate provided it 's not literally falling to pieces . You could certificate such an aircraft as a <URL> -- Specifically one of : Experimental -- Research and Development To conduct aircraft operations as a matter of research or to determine if an idea warrants further development . Typical uses for this certificate include new equipment installations , operating techniques , or new uses for aircraft . or Experimental -- Showing compliance with regulations To show compliance to the airworthiness regulations when an applicant has revised the type certificate design data or has applied for a supplemental type certificate or field approval . If your goal is to ultimately get this aircraft a <URL> you would probably want the latter , to allow you to conduct test/certification flights in the modified aircraft . To then get a standard airworthiness certificate things are a bit more murky . You could get a US STC based on the European STC &amp; using this aircraft as the example for conformity inspections and flight testing , but that would require going through <URL> . The other option would be the 337 process , in which case you are also going to need an A&amp;P mechanic ( preferably one with Inspection Authorization ) and the cooperation of your local FSDO to approve the modification as a " major alteration " ( <URL> - Instructions <URL> ) . As you alluded to in your question , something like installing a Rotax engine in a Cessna 150 is a " Major Modification " that has no " FAA Approved Data " ( STC procedure/drawings/etc . ) to include with the 337 , so you would need to submit " Acceptable Data " for your modification ( the European STC is a good starting point ) and work with the FAA to obtain approval for the modification . This is something you would want to talk to the FAA about before purchasing an aircraft with such a modification ( there 's a good chance they may not approve the modification , which would leave you with an unairworthy aircraft , or one restricted to the Experimental category ) .
The <URL> gives a couple of possible reasons that the reaction was not sustained in Appendix D on page 257 : The flash fire initially consumed the oxygen inside the tank ; reducing the oxygen concentration level to below the threshold required for sustained combustion of Jet A-1 . The general temperature rise associated with the initial combustion was low and insufficient to increase the temperature of the fuel inside the tank to at least the lower flammability limit of Jet A-1 . Quenching of the flame by the cool fuel tank walls ( evident from the sooting ) and the entry of cooling air through the tank perforations may have promoted this . Note that Jet-A requires quite a bit of activation energy to vaporize and burn . If the burning of what fuel did burn did n't produce enough energy to provide activation energy for the surrounding fuel , the fire would not be sustained . The fire was likely very brief as the turbine disc fragment passed through the tank . From what I 've heard ( I have n't tried this myself , ) you can drop a lit match in a bucket of Jet-A and it wo n't ignite . Using fuel that does n't easily burst into flames in a vehicle designed to carry tens of thousands of gallons of fuel at several hundred miles per hour is desirable and intentional for obvious reasons . To illustrate just how hard it is to burn Jet-A , the fuel tanks in Asiana 214 never ignited . The entire fuselage was burned out , but the fuel tanks never burned . Remnants of Asiana 214 's hull <URL>
It 's a <URL> , or HUD . The HUD can display a number of different pieces of information , including performance data such as airspeed , altitude , and attitude , navigation data such as waypoints or ILS glideslope , or weapons data such as the selected weapon or the targeting reticle you mentioned . Thus , its uses are varied - depending on how sophisticated the system , basic aircraft control may be accomplished using only the HUD . In some modern fighters , there may be additional data on a Helmet Display ( or in the case of the F-35 , the helmet may have the only display ) . It is not just used on fighters - some airliners , cargo planes , and trainers have HUDs : ( <URL> ) ( T-38 ) ( <URL> ) As for your last question , per fooot 's comment , <URL> has more information . The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 .
That distinctly squarish shape looks like a <URL> , especially since the registration on the photo from below is visible : <URL> . - ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Adrian Pingstone )
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
The 747-300 was somewhat of a cross between -200 and SP . The -300 was almost same as the -200 except for the increased length of the hump . The -300 was never a success and was soon overshadowed by the -400 . The 747SP was the result of a requirement for longer range aircraft . Boeing engineers basically <URL> . However , by the time it flew for the first time , commercial air travel had changed ( in no small part due to the high oil prices ) and the model never sold as much as Boeing had hoped . However , when it was observed that there were no adverse effects when the rear of the cockpit lined up with the front of the wing , Boeing introduced the 747-300 with increased length of the hump with little else in terms of major change from -200 . However , just two years after -300 was introduced , Boeing introduced the -400 , which was a significant improvement - it eliminated the flight engineer , increased range among others , while retaining the -300 's hump ( which meant more economy seats ) . 747-400 is the most successful model of the series , with more than 690 orders . Most airlines jumped straight to the -400 , effectively killing the -300 . Actually , the 747-200 production ( with over 390 made ) ended after the -300 version ( of which only 81 were made ) . So they are more of contemporaries . Also , it 'll be a stretch to call that the older 747 versions are still in passenger service . 747-100 is <URL> , <URL> hardly qualify as passenger service and the most successful of these , the 747-200s are also <URL> , if you discount the VC-25s flying around with US President ( which are slated to be replaced by 747-8s ) .
The published Maximum Operating Mach number ( MMO ) for the B747 is Mach 0.92 but it can sometimes be exceeded accidentally due to aircraft upset . It has been reported that Mach 0.99 was attained during a Boeing test flight in a slight nose down attitude . The A380 has a slower MMO of Mach 0.89 The actual true airspeed of a Mach number will depend on the temperature and altitude but at 35,000 feet Mach 0.92 would be about 530 Knots . ( 610 mph )
Since the site computes atmospheric conditions , only the friction coefficient $ c_f $ needs a reference length . This is the length of the object causing friction , measured along the direction of airflow . In case of a wing , it is its local chord , in case of a fuselage , it 's the fuselage 's length . Each part of an airplane and each section of the wing will have a slightly different $ c_f $ , depending on local chord length . The highest contribution to friction drag is caused at the leading edge , when the boundary layer is thin and the speed gradient at the surface is steep . The farther downstream you look , the less each additional unit of length will add to friction drag , so the average over the full length ( that is what $ c_f $ stands for ) will become smaller for longer bodies . To compute total drag , you need to add the contribution of each part , multiplied with its surface area relative to the airplane 's total area . Yes , for a wing the upper and the lower wetted surface area will each contribute their own drag component . Since airflow is faster on the upper surface of a lift-creating wing , you would need a correction factor to account for the speed difference between upper and lower side , but if the difference is small , you can just assume the same speed everywhere . To be precise : $ c_f $ is the friction coefficient of a flat plate parallel to the airstream .
I have never heard " tally ho " used in civilian aviation and it not a recognised phrase so should not be used . A civilian ATCO would not think positively about anyone using that phrase . It used to be used in military comms in combat . Its usage arose during WW1 when the Royal Flying Corps ( and later the Royal Air Force ) drew its crews mostly from the " officer classes " who , in general , were also fox hunters or supporters of the same . " Tally ho " is the cry shouted out by a huntsman when the fox is spotted and the hunt is on . I served in the RAF from 1976 to 1986 . Then as a civilian in the military until 1993 and in that time never heard the phrase . I suspect that it has died out since it is not standard phraseology and perpetuates stereotypes which have no place in modern , professional organisations . A non-standard , but common phrase is a simple " visual " , but the correct phrase in both civilian and military use is " traffic in sight " .
Detonation , as the name suggests , is an explosion of the fuel-air mixture inside the cylinder . Under normal operation , the spark plugs each ignite a point in the fuel/air charge , which then propagate through the cylinder and provides a consistent , regulated burn in a process called <URL> . This extends the time that the burning fuel pushes on the cylinder , providing a gentle power stroke . During detonation , the fuel/air charge ( or pockets within the charge ) explodes rather than burning smoothly . Because of this explosion , the charge exerts a much higher force on the piston and cylinder , leading to increased noise , vibration , and cylinder head temperatures . The violence of detonation also causes a reduction in power . Mild detonation may increase engine wear , though some engines can operate with mild detonation regularly . However , severe detonation can cause engine failure in minutes . Because of the noise that it makes , detonation is called " engine knock " or " pinging " in cars . ( Source : <URL> , page 6-18 ) Detonation can be caused by a number of factors , but generally they relate to a situation outside of the engine 's design . Using the wrong fuel can cause detonation : the octane rating of a fuel is basically the amount of pressure it can take before it detonates . Similarly , high cylinder temperatures can cause detonation ( 1 ) . This is why mixture is set very rich when at high power levels : the excess fuel cools the cylinders , preventing detonation . As noted above , full power with carburetor heat on can cause detonation , as the increased temperature mimics the effect of high cylinder temperatures . Full carburetor heat is required to provide at least a 90 degree F increase in intake air temperature . Further reading : Page 6-19 of the <URL> . An <URL> at Savvy Analysis 1 ) Detonation is distinct from pre-ignition , where the fuel/air charge is ignited by something other than the spark plug . Notably , detonation and pre-ignition often cause each other , as a detonating engine will have a very high CHT ( potentially enough to cause pre-ignition ) , and if the charge pre-ignites as the cylinder is still rising , the continued compression may cause the charge to detonate .
end question
start question
Who flies planes on ferry flights ?
Ferry flights encompass much more than delivery and retirement flights . Any time an airplane has a problem that ca n't be fixed on-site they can generally obtain a ferry permit to get it to an airport that the maintenance can be completed at . At the airline I worked for , all flights , including initial delivery , were conducted by pilots on our seniority list and other airlines I 'm familiar with have the same requirements in their contract language . Our airplanes were manufactured in Brazil and a crew would be take an airline flight down to the Embraer factory , accept the airplane and fly it to a US customs station and then on to our main maintenance airport . These flights were fairly uncommon and often went to very senior and management pilots . Normal ferry flights for aircraft repositioning or maintenance needs were generally done by low-seniority reserve crews because those tended to be non-scheduled activity and show up with short notice . In all cases though , at my airline , ferry flights were conducted by company pilots . This can vary by airline and there probably is n't a universal definitive procedure common to every airline .
To answer your first question , ADS-B stands for Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast . Automatic in the sense that it operates without external stimulus ( unlike radar ) Dependent in the sense that the surveillance information is derived from on board systems Surveillance in the sense that it 's primary intended to provide surveillance information to other parties Broadcast because it transmits to all listeners without knowing who those listeners are , there is no two-way communication . The capability of an aircraft to transmit ADS-B signals is called ADS-B OUT , the capability of an aircraft to receive ADS-B signals is called ADS-B IN . ADS-B data contains information about the identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . There are three technologies defined for ADS-B 1090ES is operating on 1090 MHz , the same frequency used for Secondary Surveillance Radar ( SSR ) and Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems ( ACAS/TCAS ) . Messages are transmitted by the same transponder that also replies to radar interrogations . This will be a Mode-S capable transponder because the data is formatted in a similar way . Since this frequency is the worldwide used standard for aviation , international aviation will use this ADS-B standard . UAT ( Universal Access Transceiver ) works on 978 MHz . A special transceiver is required to use this form of ADS-B . The transceiver is able to send and receive data , it will also receive ADS-B transmissions from other aircraft . UAT is only allowed within the USA and China . The frequency 978 MHz is reserved for other purposes ( DME/TACAN ) in other countries . To encourage people to equip with ADS-B voluntarily , the FAA provides additional services on UAT . These are Traffic Information Service - Broadcast ( TIS-B ) which transmits position of aircraft detected by FAA 's SSR 's and Flight Information Service - Broadcast ( FIS-B ) which provides the receiver with weather information and operational data such a airspace restrictions and NOTAMS . VHF Datalink Mode 4 ( VLDm4 ) uses a frequency in the 118-136 .975 MHz block , which is internationally reserved for aviation . Normally these frequencies are used for voice communications , so a special radio is required to support VDLm4 . Just like UAT , VDL mode 4 allows for services like TIS-B and FIS-B . VDLm4 was tried in Sweden and Russia , but has not been able to gather much mass . It is unlikely that it will be used on a large scale . Since you mention 2020 as the year by which aircraft should be equipped with ADS-B I am going to assume you are from FAA-land . The FAA mandates aircraft in the 48 contiguous states ( and D.C. ) that operate in class A , B , or C airspace or class E airspace above 10000ft ( class E airspace below 2500 AGL excluded ) to be ADS-B OUT equipped by January 1st , 2020 . The mandate itself can be found <URL> and the associated Advisory Circular ( AC90-114 ) can be found <URL> . Aircraft operating below 18000 ft can use either UAT or 1090ES . Above 18000ft , 1090ES is to only approved ADS-B technology . Countries that have ADS-B mandates are ( this list is probably not exhaustive ) Australia Canada ( Hudson bay ) China Countries in the <URL> Fiji Hong Kong India Indonesia Seychelles <URL> <URL> Vietnam
If we 're talking about FAA regs I 'm not aware of any endorsement required if your student passes the test with a perfect score ( they need an endorsement to take the test - , and they need an endorsement like the one in your question if they fail or do n't manage a perfect score ) . The endorsement above is intended for use when you need to endorse someone who failed to re-take the exam ( similar to what 's done if they fail a checkride ) , or when there 's stuff to review from the knowledge test ( My instructor combined it in my Checkride endorsement - . That said , it is probably a good idea to cover anything the student missed on the exam or does n't feel 100 % confident on , and to log that training - in this case if you do additional ground work you would just log it as you normally do ...
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
When you request flight following generally you contact the facility ( either approach or center ) responsible for the airspace you 're in , so your real question is " How the heck do I know whose airspace I 'm in ?! " The answer can usually be found on the charts , or in other FAA publications . Let 's look at your example ( I was over the Pottstown VOR ( ) heading to Lancaster ( ) on the 269 radial . ) in detail with some convenient visual aids . Preflight Planning and the A/FD You do n't tell us what airport you took off from , but I 'm going to assume ( Heritage Airport ) as a convenient starting point . If we have a look in the <URL> for we 'll get an answer very quickly from the " Communications " section : <URL> So if we 're planning a flight out of KPTW and intend to pick up flight following our call to ATC should be made to Philadelphia Approach , on 126.85 ( and if we 're going IFR and need to talk to them on the ground there 's a convenient phone number ) . If you have an application like Foreflight or Garmin Pilot this information is readily available to you in the cockpit as well , so if you 're unsure who to contact you can always pull up the A/FD information for the nearest airport and use that as a starting point . In-Flight - Using the Charts Let 's say you did n't remember to look in the A/FD to see who you needed to talk to while you were on the ground , and the battery in your iPad is dead so Foreflight is out of the picture in the air . You can pull out your paper charts and get most of the same information in flight . If we plot it puts you on the very bottom of the New York Sectional Chart , and on the Philadelphia Terminal Area Chart for part of the flight , so let 's take a closer look at the route on each of those . First the New York Sectional : <URL> Not much help here - or at least nothing glaringly obvious . Let 's look at the Philadelphia TAC : <URL> AHA ! There are helpful white boxes with blue text on this chart that tell you and list frequencies , altitudes , and active runways . This looks promising : Since the little box says to contact Philadelphia Approach that 's who you should probably call first . In your case there happen to be two helpful boxes , one above your route of flight and one below it . Both boxes are roughly equidistant from the route of flight , so it 's not obvious which one you should pay attention to . In cases like this you can call on either frequency ( at least you 're calling the right facility - they may make you call on a different frequency and talk to another controller , but you 're in the right neighborhood at least . <URL> You can also go to the Airport/Facility Directory ( A/FD ) as a tie-breaker ( though you 're probably less likely to pull the book out mid-air , and if you did you 'd probably use the nearest airport like I described above ) . The blue boxes are talking about the Philadelphia Class B airspace , so if we look at the entry for the Class B airport ( Philadelphia International - ) we 'll get more details on which radio frequencies we should use : <URL> If you 're flying along the 269 radial from you 're somewhere " northwest of the airport " , so you would call Philadelphia Approach on 124.35 / 128.4 if you 're above 5,000 feet , or 126.85 ( the same frequency we got from the A/FD entry for ) if you 're below 5,000 feet . I 'd Like To Phone A Friend There 's one final way to figure out who you should talk to , and that 's to call someone else and ask . If you 're opening your flight plan with Flight Service over the radio they will usually sign off with " For flight following try Philadelphia Approach on 126.85 " and the usual plea for PIREPS , and if they do n't offer a frequency you can always ask them .
I think you are missing some physics knowledge , so let 's start from here : If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound <URL> is a compression wave that travels through air . Given a certain air temperature , the sound will travel at <URL> through the air . If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound means that the compression waves it is generating will remain behind the aircraft : image from <URL> will he be able to overtake his own sound and hear itself ? As you can see on the right picture , if the aircraft is travelling faster that the speed of sound , the compression waves it generated in the past will remain behind . If it would stop/slow down , the waves would then catch up with the plane and a person on board would be theoretically capable of hearing them .
Short answer : High-strength aluminium alloys are tricky to weld correctly . Aluminium is such a fine material for aircraft structures that the need to rivet it is gladly accepted . Two things are important : While steel has a temperature range in which it gets more and more runny , aluminium alloys change from solid to liquid within a few degrees . Also , heat conductivity in iron-based alloys is lower than in aluminium , so heating steel locally will keep the surrounding material cooler and more solid compared to aluminium . While welding thin sheets of steel is trivial , it needs <URL> . For very thin sheets , special equipment like a water-cooled copper backing on which the aluminium sheets rest , so their back is cooled , are needed . Also , the melting temperature of steel and titanium is high enough for it to glow long before it melts , while aluminium will melt without giving you any optical hint of its temperature . High-strength aluminium is produced by <URL> . The <URL> atoms dispersed through the aluminium matrix which locally distort the atomic lattice and strengthen it . If they are heated and rapidly cooled by welding , the copper distribution would be changed and the material would be weakened around the welding area . To harden the finished structure again is rather impractical in most cases , so riveting is the better alternative . A third speciality is the oxide layer on aluminium , which has a higher melting temperature than the base material . You need an AC <URL> welder to disrupt the aluminium oxide layer , so your choice of welding techniques is rather limited . Also , riveted structures are easier to inspect and to repair . Most repairs need to remove aircraft structure for access , and a riveted structure is easier to disassemble and to put together again after the repair using slightly thicker rivets . My experience with aluminium welding stopped at 4mm thick sheets ; while thicker ones were easy to weld , I never managed to weld thinner ones . You sit in front of your structure and heat the spot where you want to start welding . Watching it through the darkened head screen you wait until the spot under the arc becomes glossy , which signals that the surface has started to melt . Now you need to add your welding wire like crazy to keep the spot from heating more , and get the spot moving . If you fail to do so , a second later you will have a hole under your arc , because the aluminium has molten completely and has fallen away . Doing this with 2mm sheets was a pure exercise in futility for me - the moment the surface became glossy it fell away already . Edit : Thanks to @voretaq7 for sharing the link about friction stir welding in the comments ! This is made possible by precise positioning of the parts and a computer-controlled welding head and will see wider application in the future . Eclipse Aerospace claims it helps them to avoid 60 % of rivets in their jet aircraft .
The aviation industry is already running at near-peak efficiency , performing crucial tasks simultaneously to ensure quick turn-around . Trying to speed up the boarding process by allowing entrance from both ends would be doable with a large amount of changes to the existing process , in both operations and infrastructure . However , the result would be horrendous and time - and resource-consuming at worst and comical at best . Jetways need to be able to reach all points of ingress/egress , where currently , they only reach the forward doors . Seeing as aircraft nose-in at the gate , to reach the aft doors would require a jetway that goes around the wing ( above the wing is even less practical from a design/physics standpoint ) , effectively creating an even smaller limit to the size of the aircraft that can fit at the terminal since there is now a jetway that needs to reach the rear doors . As you can see , the space between aircraft is already tight : Or , you use a simple stairway at the aft door and allow passengers on the tarmac , an already busy place during aircraft turn-around , and we do n't need them touching anything en route . I highly recommend against the latter . In many instances , during boarding , the rear and/or opposite-side doors are already in use for loading/unloading food and drinks and taking out the trash . So you 'd have to redesign that process . Humans are generally stupid in large groups . Southwest notwithstanding , your typical airline assigns seats . Imagine a passenger entering the rear door with seat 1A . It does n't have to be that extreme . It can be any seat assignment more forward than another passenger coming the opposite direction down the aisle , which has the effect of halting both directions of travel . Passengers already sit in the wrong seats , or travel with babies , or carry too much luggage ( or stow it selfishly ) . There have been many studies on efficient boarding methods . The most efficient algorithm seems to be <URL> , but this method requires someone with an inordinate attention to detail ( and willing passengers ) to line people up in a specific order . Taking into account crew resources , the most efficient method is by window-middle-aisle groups , then by random order ( i.e. " single-zone " ) , with typical " zone boarding " least efficient . EDIT : There are scenarios where boarding from both ends makes sense and is feasible , e.g. smaller planes with fewer passengers . On larger aircraft , the problem compounds itself as the number of passengers grows , each " collision " incident affecting that many more people in the queue . Minimizing collisions requires airlines to throw more resources at the problem , namely personnel to direct traffic . Ask any CFO - more often than not , human resources is the most significant slice of the operating budget . In any case , engineering a solution should not entail best-case scenarios ; it should be designed for typical-case at best , and more commonly for worst-case . The human factor is one that can not be overlooked . There is no such thing as an idiot-proof system .
The first scheduled trans-atlantic air service was made possible with <URL> . The LZ-127 started flying the route in 1931 , mostly to <URL> , or Pernambuco in Brazil , but was disassembled in 1940 . The first airliner which was able to cover the distance ( back then it was Berlin - New York ) was the <URL> , which in 1938 needed almost 25 hours East-West and 20 hours on the return leg . With its slow cruise speed , wind made a lot of difference . Sadly , the US did not allow Lufthansa to start the scheduled service it had planned to open in 1939 . Lufthansa had opened regular air mail services in 1934 between Europe and South America using flying boats and a relay ship in the middle of the Atlantic . Air France added its transatlantic mail service flying from Africa to South America and back . The first heavier-than-air transatlantic passenger service opened between New York and Marseille in 1939 on <URL> operated by Pan Am . It crossed the Atlantic between Foynes , Ireland and Botwood , Newfoundland . A British service , also using flying boats , was in preparation but stopped by the beginning of WW II . In the 1950s , there were already several options for transatlantic air travel , but none of them non-stop from Chicago : Pan Am , TWA , Trans Canada Airlines ( TCA ) , BOAC ( successor of Imperial Airways ) , and Air France all operated large propeller aircraft which covered the distance with refueling steps , typically in Gander ( Newfoundland ) and Shannon ( Ireland ) . Typical aircraft were the <URL> and <URL> , and the <URL> , but also the French <URL> flying boat was used until 1955 . Of these airlines , only <URL> in 1957 , before the first international terminal opened there in the following year . Still , the prevailing eastward wind made the East-West crossing hard and required airlines to reduce payload , and only the advent of faster airliners like the <URL> ( from 1956 ) and the <URL> ( from 1957 ) made the transatlantic services more reliable and economical . Beginning with the DC-7C , their range was sufficient to support transatlantic service directly from Chicago O'Hare . In October 1958 the first transatlantic jet airliner service was opened by <URL> using the <URL> , followed shortly after by Pan Am , operating the <URL> and connecting London with New York ( with an occasional refueling stop at Gander on westbound flights ) . O'Hare could only participate in this progress after its main runway was extended to <URL> . Therefore , the most likely airplanes to fly transatlantic directly from O'Hare would have been the DC-7C ( but <URL> , not TWA ) , the <URL> and the L-1649 , which both were operated by TWA . For the flying time , the <URL> took 14 1/4 hours with the DC-7C and 14.83 hours with the Lockheed 1649 . So it is fair to assume a flying time of 15 1/2 to 16 hours for the slightly longer distance between Heathrow and O'Hare . Quote from <URL> : In January 1958 Pan American scheduled the DC-7C from Orly to Idlewild in 14 hr 15 min ; TWA scheduled the 1649 in 14 hr 50 min .
The ETOPS requirement is pretty much the same for all aircraft irrespective of usage as long as its under parts 121 or 135 , as noted in the FAA InFO 07004 , <URL> : The new ETOPS rules are now applicable to : Part 121 • All two-engine airplanes more than 60 minutes flying time from an adequate airport ( at a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air ) . • All passenger-carrying airplanes with more than two engines and more than 180 minutes flying time from an adequate airport ( at a one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air ) . Part 135 • All multi-engine turbine-engine powered airplanes ( other than all-cargo operations with airplanes having more than two engines ) more than 180 minutes flying time ( limited to 240 minutes flying time ) from an airport meeting the requirements of part 135 , § § 135.385 or 135.393 and 135.219 at an approved one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard conditions in still air . As far as differences are concerned , <URL> : The FAA ... however agree that for airplanes with more than two engines , passenger carrying operations may be excluded from the ETOPS maintenance program requirements and that all-cargo operations may be excluded from all ETOPS requirements . The definition of ETOPS in the same document covers all aircraft except four engined all-cargo aircraft : Extended Operations ( ETOPS ) means an airplane flight operation other than an all-cargo operation in an airplane with more than two engines during which a portion of the flight is conducted beyond a time threshold identified in part 121 or part 135 of this chapter that is determined using an approved one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard atmospheric conditions in still air . As far as non-revenue flights are considered , they are usually operated under Part 91 , so the ETOPS rules do n't apply . However , it is better to plan an ETOPS route for safety considerations ( and to keep insurers happy ) .
The ARTCC are centers with authority on the US territory only . However there are equivalent control areas in the international airspace ( e.g. airspace used when flying over the seas ) . International rules are proposed by <URL> . The foundations of the laws used in civil aviation have been agreed in 1944 <URL> , in particular <URL> . From <URL> on ICAO airspace classification : ICAO has divided the airspace in the world into Flight Information Regions , or FIRS . These regions identify which country controls the airspace and determines which procedures are to be used . Normally , one major ATC facility is identified with each FIR . These facilities are called Area Control Centers ( ACC ) . They are equivalent to ARTCC 's in the U.S. ACC are managed by countries who received a delegation from ICAO . ACC usually provide clearances for flights over water areas and are as such Oceanic Control Areas or OCAs . For North Atlantic : <URL> North Atlantic OCAs ( <URL> ) There are 6 OCAs managed by different ICAO member States : UK ( Shanwick ) , Iceland ( Reykjavik ) , Canada ( Gander ) , Norway ( BODO ) , USA ( NY ) and Portugal ( Santa Maria ) . A common route for the flight you mention will cross <URL> and <URL> FIR/OCA . This region is very crowded ( due to the <URL> reduced volume and the transoceanic flights in general ) . Example : <URL> ( source <URL> ) FIRs and their boundaries worldwide can be displayed with this <URL> : <URL> ( source : <URL> ) See full <URL> on IVAO ( simulation ) . This will be for the other direction , because the NAT system is based on jet streams blowing from west to east .
In normal operations there are regulations against this sort of thing ( as Dave has said ) . But there have been a few emergencies where the First Office or the Captain have become incapacitated ( due to medical emergencies ) , and the remaining pilot has declined to ask if there is another pilot on board to help fly the plane . Here is an example from 2011 of a <URL> ** , I have heard of others but ca n't find references . So , admittedly , that may be the only actual occurrence . So , to finally answer your questions : Very rarely , in an emergency situation , there can be a single pilot on a commercial airliner . Granted , there were passengers on board , so I 'm not sure it fits your narrow definition of " solo " , but it 's about as close as it 's going to get . For completeness ( though I do n't think it counts ) , there have been a few instances of a single pilot stealing a commercial jetliner . For example <URL> . There were actually two people involved , one was a mechanic , the other had a private pilots license ( hence the pilot was " soloing " ) . The aircraft has not been seen since ... so it 's assumed it ended badly , and , for the record , it 's also assumed the pilot was coerced ( if indeed he was even flying the plane ) . There are a couple more incidents , namely this <URL> , which was stolen by a mechanic , circled for an hour , then crashed . And also this <URL> , which was actually stolen by a Captain form Air Botswana . He circled the airport for a couple of hours demanding to speak to everyone from his girlfriend , to his boss to the President of Botswana . They were actually arranging to have him speak with the president when he crashed his plane into two other Air Botswana ATR-42-320s that were parked on the ground . He was the only one killed . Again , though , I 'm not sure if these fit the criteria you are looking for . But in that last one , at very least , he was the only person on board the aircraft , it was a commercial aircraft and he was in fact a Captain . But to say all this an irregularity would be an extreme understatement ... ** For clarification : The reason I state this is the only example I could find is because it 's the only one where I could find a report where it was specifically stated the remaining pilot had no help . To quote from the report : Once the initial Cabin Crew assistance was complete , the Captain indicated that he did not need assistance in operating the aircraft , although this was suggested in the operator 's procedures for pilot incapacitation . The First Officer took no further part in the operation of the aircraft . No inquiries as to the possible presence on board the aircraft of either medically trained personnel or qualified pilots were made . All other examples I saw either specifically stated that a new co-pilot was found , or they skipped that detail entirely . All of that being said , I somehow doubt this is the only case , it 's just the only one I could explicitly verify .
If a " terrorist takeover " like this were to happen in the real world ... ... and the tower still had communication capability : The tower controllers would advise pilots of the situation , and likely instruct them to return to the Approach frequency to coordinate their next steps ( probably a landing at an alternate airport ) . Presumably the tower would still have telephone communication as well , and be able to let Approach know to expect the planes to come back because of the emergency , otherwise the pilots would certainly inform the approach controllers of what 's going on when they switch back to that frequency . ... and the tower has no communication capability : With no response from the tower the usual thing for pilots to do is return to the Approach frequency to find out what 's going on . The pilots could elect to attempt a landing anyway , treating the airport as an untowered field ( this somewhat famously happened at KDCA , <URL> ) , or proceed to an alternate airport . If the weather required an instrument approach and the ILS radio signals are not transmitting this would be something the pilots could detect pretty easily ( similarly if they were turned off while flying the approach there would be indications in the cockpit that the signal was lost and the pilot would execute the missed-approach procedure ) , and they would proceed to an alternate airport , again coordinating with the approach controllers . ... in any case : No matter what the situation the aircraft would divert to their alternate airports long before they were in danger of running out of fuel . They would notify ATC of the situation and proceed to an alternate airport . ( If not cleared by ATC to proceed to an alternate at some point any sane pilot will declare an emergency for low fuel and proceed on their emergency authority to make a safe landing somewhere . ) So basically there 's some " artistic liberties " taken in Die Hard 2 in the interest of making it a movie you 'd want to sit through . A movie where a bunch of terrorists take over an airport and a bunch of flights divert to alternate airports ( mildly inconveniencing the passengers ) while the National Guard surrounds the airport and deals with the terrorists would n't sell nearly as many tickets !
The accounts that have been published of F-117 missions indicate that they generally flew single-ship , rather than formation missions , and it seems probable that B-2 aircraft do likewise . So in a sense , the important question for those aircraft is n't " how do I know where ( another stealth aircraft operating nearby ) IS , " but " how do I ensure that we do n't collide with each other , " and that 's a much easier question . There are several ways to " deconflict " multiple aircraft operating in relatively close proximity that do n't involve seeing or painting each other on radar . One aircraft operates at one altitude , another operates at a different altitude is one method , while timing over a point ( you get to waypoint ABC no later than 19:00:00 , and I 'll be there no sooner than 19:00:30 ) is another , and physical separation ( you stay west of this longitude line , I stay east ) is another . In practice , all of these can be combined to ensure that " your " mission is deconflicted from " my " mission . Of note , it is n't only stealth aircraft that will use tactics like this . Helicopters operating blacked out at night do n't have air-to-air radar , and even with NVG 's , the ability to see each other is n't reliable enough to plan on " see and avoid " and the " big sky theory " to preclude a mid-air , so they 'll use some fairly detailed deconfliction plans incorporating separation in space and time . More recent stealth aircraft such as the F-22 and F-35 are <URL> to have <URL> capabilities so that they can " see " each other without radar , by means of an encrypted , stealthy broadcast of each aircraft 's position and track . This would allow multiple aircraft to fly in formation ( not close formation , but perhaps 1000 ' or more apart ) , and to work with other aircraft equipped with the same datalink , so even though the bad guys would only be able to see the non-stealth aircraft on radar , the friendlies could all see each other .
This <URL> speaks to this somewhat . In modern-day air forces , the paint job will depend on the mission the aircraft is used for . However , with the improvement of radar , visual camouflage is less important than it used to be . Blacked-out aircraft Some aircraft are paint black or nearly black for use in night missions . The F-117 ( shown above ) was painted with a radar-absorbent paint and also primarily flew at night , lessening its probability of detection . Other aircraft , like the special operations <URL> and <URL> are painted very dark grays or blacks to lessen their probability of detection since they are primarily used at night in support of covert missions , often at low level where visual detection is the main threat . Modern Examples : <URL> , <URL> Ground camoflauge Some aircraft are painted to blend in to the ground . Some of these are those designed for low-level attack roles ( like the Tornado pictured above ) , to limit the chance of visual detection by enemy fighters from above since their radar signature is unlikely to be detected so low to the ground . Others , like the now-retired <URL> , may be camouflaged to prevent detection when parked on the ground , as many were dispersed around Sweden , sometimes hidden in forests , to prevent single attacks from taking out many defenses . Many military helicopters are also painted either a patterned or dark green color to blend into forests . Some aircraft have been painted tan to blend into desert environments . Modern Examples : <URL> , <URL> Air camouflage Many air superiority fighters , and a large group of combat aircraft in general are painted in some way to blend into the sky . I have read that the human eye has difficulty picking a gray plane out against the blue sky ( or grayish clouds ) , and most USAF and NATO planes are painted in some form of " Air Superiority Gray " . Additionally , many will have different-colored tops and bottoms to help blend in from above and below . <URL> talks about false cockpits on military jets that contribute to better dogfighting performance . Some aircraft , like the <URL> , may have several different grays and whites painted on it to break the aircraft 's shape up . Modern examples : <URL> , <URL> There may be other aircraft that have unique paint jobs to assist in a specialized mission - a darker color on one area to help with sensors , special coatings to minimize damage from a nuclear flash . Overall , it is not as common as it used to be for aircraft to be green - most US Military aircraft were green in color during the Vietnam War , but as the distance of aerial combat has increased , so have the camouflage schemes . Grays are probably the most common paint jobs now among military aircraft of many countries , with other aircraft having specialized paint jobs for specialized roles .
The overwhelming majority of major airlines do lease at least some of their aircraft . And most airlines who choose to buy do not end up paying that full price tag . In the case of Easyjet , around half their fleet is leased ( as of 2013 ) . Leasing allows airlines with weak balance sheets or with poor future prospects to increase capacity without locking capital . In fact , the largest aircraft owners are aircraft leasing companies . For example , GECAS ( General Electric Capital Aviation Services ) , the largest aircraft lessor , currently owns around 1,700 aircraft , being operated by 230 airlines around the world . There are other ( not state-owned and generally low cost ) airlines , such as Ryanair , who are fond of owing most of their aircraft . What Ryanair does is negotiate very good procurement deals with Boeing ( by buying large packs of planes , all being B-737s ) , use them for around 5 years , and then sell them before their price has gone down too low . This takes a burden on their debt levels , but seems to work for them so far on the long run . This aircraft resell value is an important aspect to consider when comparing leasing vs purchasing , as well as tax incentives derived from amortization . Legacy carriers ( many of them state owned ) , on the other hand , have a tendency to purchase most of their fleet , and keeping them around for the full lifespan of the machine ( around 30 years ) . The actual price a company pays for a given aircraft is not public ( understandably ) and most figures you would be able to find are related to " list prices " . However , in 2005 Ryanair was forced to disclose facts about one of the massive ( by the time ) purchases of Boeing aircraft . Apparently , they paid <URL> . More current data on the actual price airlines pay for Boeing planes can be found <URL> , where Javier Irastorza analyses the discounts Boeing is applying to their aircraft based on a balance sheet assessment .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
Ferry flights encompass much more than delivery and retirement flights . Any time an airplane has a problem that ca n't be fixed on-site they can generally obtain a ferry permit to get it to an airport that the maintenance can be completed at . At the airline I worked for , all flights , including initial delivery , were conducted by pilots on our seniority list and other airlines I 'm familiar with have the same requirements in their contract language . Our airplanes were manufactured in Brazil and a crew would be take an airline flight down to the Embraer factory , accept the airplane and fly it to a US customs station and then on to our main maintenance airport . These flights were fairly uncommon and often went to very senior and management pilots . Normal ferry flights for aircraft repositioning or maintenance needs were generally done by low-seniority reserve crews because those tended to be non-scheduled activity and show up with short notice . In all cases though , at my airline , ferry flights were conducted by company pilots . This can vary by airline and there probably is n't a universal definitive procedure common to every airline .
Yes , the mechanic can fly the aircraft , according to <URL> ( Williams , 2014 ) : The scenario you present is a mechanic who , as part of his duties , conducts flight tests after performing maintenance on the aircraft , and does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . The mechanic holds a private pilot certificate with a valid third class medical certificate . This situation is covered under § 61.113 ( b ) , which states that , " [ a ] private pilot may , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if ( 1 ) the flight is only incidental to that business or employment and ( 2 ) the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " As these flight tests are incidental to his employment as a mechanic , the mechanic is not in violation of § 61.113 when conducting these flight tests
What kind of plane is good for this type of flight ? The cheap kind . Joking aside , the exact airplane to use depends on the size of the banners or billboards you 're going to be towing , but generally speaking you want something reasonably rugged , with good slow flight characteristics , sufficient engine power to be able to overcome the added drag from the banner , and , hopefully , some decent fuel consumption . I 'm not entirely kidding about the cheap part though ; banner towing is hard on the airplanes and carries a higher-than-average degree of risk , so you do want to stay away from airplanes that will be expensive to fix , if you can help it . As for specific types , I 've seen banners towed with everything from -152 s to Grumman Agcats ; a large banner tow operation apparently had a Super Cub with an O-540 bolted to it , so you 'll see a ton of different things , but tailwheels seem to be the norm , at least in the US , and many outfits will make additional modifications such as removing engine cowlings to help with cooling . With banners they appear to be flying slower than usual . Is this just an illusion ? No , they are indeed flying slower . First of all , the added drag from the banner slows the airplane down all by itself . Secondly , you 're being paid to advertise , so you want to make sure that people can read whatever sign you 're towing . You 're not flying the ragged edge of the stall ( it 's dangerous , uneconomical , and unnecessarily hard on the engine ) , but you 're probably going to be flying on the backside of the power curve . What are the practical or regulatory requirements that the plane must meet to be capable ? In addition to the practical considerations we 've talked about above , banner towing operations require a waiver from the FAA . The company has to apply for it and every pilot must be trained in banner tow operations , pass a review from an approved FAA inspector ( who will be watching you perform picks and drops from the ground ) , and be added to the waiver . The aircraft and tow hitch mechanisms also have to be inspected and approved for banner tow operations , and added to the waiver . <URL> is the current FAA Banner Tow Information handbook , covering equipment , operations , waiver information , and other assorted miscellaneous if you 're curious to learn more .
end question
start question
What engine power setting is used during cruise ?
At first , I was tempted to close the question as a duplicate , but then I could not find one that would address the point directly . But there are many questions and answers on this site which allow one to cobble together the answer : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> To save you to read through all linked answers , here is the gist of it : Jet engines are run at close to their maximum power during cruise , but their thrust is much less at altitude due to lower air density . Airliners want to fly as high as possible to fly faster for the same drag and to gain efficiency , and their designs are balanced to achieve reasonable take-off distances and good cruise performance at close to maximum thrust .
The engine does not move , the air flow is only redirected . The method of redirecting the flow varies with the size , configuration , and manufacturer of the engine . The flow does not need to be directed completely forward ; the flow is generally mostly outwards and partially foward . This is still enough to create significant drag and slow the aircraft down . In smaller and older engines , the entire flow is redirected . This corresponds to the first to configurations below . Buckets or clamshell doors close over the jet flow to redirect the air . In larger engines , particularly high-bypass turbofans , only part of the air is redirected . This corresponds to the last configuration below . The core air from the engine still exits normall , but the bypass air from the fan is redirected . Since the bypass air on these engines is a much greater flow than the engine core air , this results in a net reverse thrust . There are multiple mechanisms , but the general idea is to deploy doors that block the bypass air and send it through the sides of the engine cowl . Turboprop aircraft just change the pitch of the propeller blades such that the propeller pushes air forward instead of backward . The pitch in which the blades provide reverse thrust is called the " beta range . " In civil aircraft , reverse thrust is only used when on the ground . There are typically interlocks in the system that prevent the thrust reversers from deploying if the aircraft does not sense that it is on the ground . Once the aircraft touches down , the pilot will deploy the reverse thrust . Some military aircraft like the C-17 can use reverse thrust in the air . This enables them to perform very steep descents . Reverse thrust is more of an " optional " method of braking ( see this <URL> ) , only to provide extra stopping power when needed . This particularly helps when braking force is less effective , such as in rain or snow . Before landing , pilots will take into account the wind , aircraft weight , runway length , and any contamination of the runway ( rain or snow ) . Based on this they will know what kind of braking force is needed and whether they should use thrust reversers . The thrust reversers do n't always have to be operational for an aircraft to fly . Some operators choose to disable them , which decreases maintenance costs . The thrust reversers can also break , in which case they will be mechanically locked to prevent them from deploying until they can be fixed . Pilots will consider this when they are computing their landing distance .
No , fiddling with your altimeter setting does n't change the airspace you are flying in . So you ca n't bust the class A above 18 000 ft by changing the setting . The top and bottom boundaries of the airspace are defined by applying the altimeter setting local to that airspace . Conversely , and perhaps more important , you ca n't weasel out of a busted airspace by quickly changing your altimeter setting . Your transponder sends your altitude as if your altimeter was set to 1013.25 hPA / 29.92 inHg , regardless of what your actual setting is . The ATC system will do the conversion according to their setting , so you ca n't fool them . Note that the altitude resolution of your transponder is either 100 feet ( Mode C ) or 25 feet ( Mode S with appropriate altimeter encoder ) , so 1 feet difference does n't really matter .
Yes , that is correct procedure , except that if you 're flying an instrument approach , switching to destination altimeter should be part of your approach setup " chart briefing " ( which likely happens before you get handed off to the tower ) . From <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : [ Set the altimeter ] to the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 NM of the aircraft , or if there is no station within this area , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . When an aircraft is en route on an instrument flight plan , air traffic controllers will furnish this information to the pilot at least once while the aircraft is in the controllers area of jurisdiction . In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , set to the elevation of the departure airport or use an appropriate altimeter setting available prior to departure . Unfortunately the AIM text does n't directly address destination altimeter settings , but <URL> alludes to the fact that controllers must verify you have the best destination altimeter setting , either by telling you or by having you report that you have the current ATIS or the AWOS/ASOS broadcast ( " the numbers " for the latter ) : a. Numerous approach control facilities have established programs for arriving VFR aircraft to contact approach control for landing information . This information includes : wind , runway , and altimeter setting at the airport of intended landing . This information may be omitted if contained in the Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) broadcast and the pilot states the appropriate ATIS code . b . Such information will be furnished upon initial contact with concerned approach control facility . The pilot will be requested to change to the tower frequency at a predetermined time or point , to receive further landing information . For instrument approaches under IFR , setting and checking the altimeter to the destination 's setting should be part of your approach briefing checklist . My personal " checklist " includes the altimeter setting as part of the weather information when I get to the bottom of the chart and check ATIS/ASOS/AWOS numbers against the approach minimums . Interestly enough , the FAA 's <URL> does n't have much to say on altimeter settings at all ( except for mentioning that keeping the setting up to date is important and that bad things can happen if you do n't ) .
We might speculate why the METAR is giving innaccurate data , but the question asks , " What should one do ... " I will take the liberty of inferring the question to be " what should one do if one is unable to obtain an altimeter setting for the airport from which he or she is preparing to depart ? " Note that this question could be asked due to an airport with a faulty weather reporting system ( as in the question above ) , an airport without weather reporting at all ( quite common , for example : <URL> or <URL> ) , or an aircraft that is not radio equipped . I will further take the liberty of answering from what I know : the FAA regulations . I will point out that it is the pilot 's responsibility to be familiar with all available information and this should include a thorough weather briefing whenever possible . Under the FAA 's jurisdiction , the relevant regulation is <URL> : ( a ) Each person operating an aircraft shall maintain the cruising altitude or flight level of that aircraft , as the case may be , by reference to an altimeter that is set , when operating -- ( 1 ) Below 18,000 feet MSL , to -- ( i ) The current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft ; ( ii ) If there is no station within the area prescribed in paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station ; or ( iii ) In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure ( Since all airports and terrain in the US are below 18,000 MSL , this applies to takeoff ; the rules governing flight above 18,000 -- <URL> -- do not apply to our question . " Operate " is defined in <URL> . ) We can go through this like a flowchart : If " the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft " is available , use that . ( Note that this could include current reported altimeter settings obtained by radio ( ATC , flight service , or a nearby airport ) , phone call ( briefer or AWOS ) , internet , or any other method that would procure the needed data . ) If no such station is available , then use " the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . " Now , if the aircraft in question is not equipped with a radio , then ( and I would read technically only then ) the pilot is permitted to set the altimeter to " the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure . " Now , that being said , if a pilot is in the middle of the Idaho backcountry at Wilson Bar <URL> , or on the face of an Alaskan glacier , with no cell reception and no real way to acquire a current reported altimeter setting despite being in a radio equipped aircraft , then actual practice will be to set the altimeter to field elevation and get on with it . However , the requirement to use a current reported altimeter setting remains , and should be acquired at the first available opportunity .
Cellular communication has multiple issues : When a plane is up more than a few thousand feet , a cell phone would see , and try to talk to , multiple cell towers at once . At best , this is inefficient and overloads the cell network . At worst , the network can get confused and drop calls . ( not something you want when trying to get ATC directions ) When a plane is moving rapidly , it will change cell towers frequently . This has the same problems as above . Cell communications is designed for Person-to-Person during a single call . Aviation radio is designed so that everyone can hear everyone else 's communications . Even if an ATC instruction is not specifically for me , I can get a mental picture of what other planes are nearby and what they are doing . This is not so easy with cellular . In many rural areas , cell phone coverage is limited .
The Power Transfer Unit is well known on Airbus due to its barking-like sound ( refresher : Video of a <URL> ) . The sound comes from a pump which creates a 3,000 psi pressure being quickly switched ON and OFF . <URL> ( Source : <URL> ) Principle A PTU is connected to two independent hydraulic systems : The first to drive an hydraulic motor ( or turbine ) mechanically connected to a pump . The second hydraulic system is pressurized by the pump . <URL> PTU principle , <URL> PTU can be reversible ( each hydraulic system can drive the motor or be pressurized by the pump ) or not ( the same system always drive the motor ) . <URL> ( Actual PTU schematics , <URL> ) When is it activated ? On Airbus A320 series , the PTU is actually the second source of pressure for the yellow and green hydraulic systems , after the EDP . It 's always ON , ready for the pump activation if there is a pressure drop on the yellow or green hydraulic system and the differential pressure is more than 500 psi . Airbus A318 , A319 , A320 and A321 aeroplanes are equipped with three hydraulic systems and they can be safely controlled with only one system operative . A bi-directional PTU enables the yellow system to pressurize the green system , and vice versa , without the transfer of fluid from one system to the other . In flight , the PTU operates automatically if a pressure drop in one of the systems is detected . The PTU ensures optimal hydraulic system availability for take-off . ( Source : <URL> ) Why it is now inhibited below 1,500 ft ? The PTU can not restore the correct pressure in a circuit with a permanent leak . In this case , the PTU , and possibly the working hydraulic system , eventually overheat . The crew receives a failure amber caution on the ECAM display and , up to recently , had to switch OFF ( inhibit ) the PTU manually to prevent damage . In case of loss of hydraulic fluid of the yellow or green system , the PTU can not pressurize the failed system and must be switched OFF as required by ECAM procedure to avoid a PTU overheat which may occur two minutes later . ( Source : <URL> ) <URL> A320 PTU switch ( source : <URL> which , by the way , has plenty of quality training videos ) To avoid distraction from non-essential warnings during takeoff and landing , the ECAM message is not displayed when airborne below 1,500 ft height . There were several incidents ( e.g. <URL> ) where overheating became harmful before the amber ECAM message appeared at 1,500 ft , causing the temporary loss of a second system . Airbus added logic for automatic PTU inhibition when the aircraft is airborne , but still below 1,500 ft. The previous quotes are from an EASA bulletin related to this modification ( also detailed in <URL> , the Airbus safety magazine ) , with a failure scenario that had to be prevented : <URL>
Im not sure on military but its still used by GA and Commercial pilots frequently . Although as has been noted in the comments it is slowly being downsized . It should also be noted that Commercial planes and GA planes use the same facilities and the same ATC . Once in the air a C172 may be given the same instructions as a 777 with the only differences being altitude and speed . On one hand some <URL> to some airports . There is an effort to replace these with GPS approaches but there are still active VOR approaches out there today so anyone flying IFR to these airports needs them . They are used for all sorts of IFR navigation and are often the terminal points on an airway , so you may be cleared after departure direct to a VOR . VOR 's can be used as a <URL> . VOR navigation ( and the use of paper charts for that matter ) is still taught during PPL training since GPS is not necessarily installed in every plane . Some <URL> or inertial navigation . <URL> . Personally , I am a big fan of GPS and fly direct when the airspaces and clearances allow for it ( VFR ) . That being said , the planes I rent generally have dual Nav/CDI installations which I frequently use to cross check my position with the GPS .
Yes , it is commonly used , especially in large complex airspaces . If two VHF direction finders are installed at sufficient distance from each other , they allow the ATC system to triangulate the position of a VHF transmission . This position is then indicated on the air taffic situation display , which helps the air traffic controller to quickly correlate the transmission to the transmitting aircraft , often before the callsign has been transmitted . The controller still has to crosscheck the callsigns , but it helps to reduces workload . <URL>
Here is what I am getting : <URL> : Sea level : 101300 Pa 30,000 feet : 30100 Pa Mach : Sea level1 ( 150 kt ) : 0.22 Cruise2 : 0.85 <URL> : 1.4 Using the equation : Landing : $ 3432.044 Pa = 73.68 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ Cruise : $ 15223.075 Pa = 317.94 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ So the high Mach in cruise more than compensates for the lower static pressure . <URL> agrees . 1Landing speeds for large jets are generally between 120-150 knots ( Mach 0.18-0 .22 ) . Smaller planes around 60 knots ( Mach 0.091 ) . You can convert to Mach <URL> or using a calculator like <URL> . 2Cruise speeds are generally between 240-280 kias ( knots indicated airspeed ) for large jets , which translates to around 450-500 knots ground speed and Mach 0.75-0 .85 ( depending on altitude and conditions ) .
Cruise Missile : Uses thrust for the whole trajectory Uses aerodynamic forces by moving control surfaces to move . May use thrust vectoring Ballistic Missile : Uses thrust to reach very high altitude . After that , no thrust , only potential energy is used and converted to speed . Uses aerodynamic forces ( for a limited extent ) to move by deflecting control surfaces .
According to a BBC article <URL> , hydrogen was used , not helium .
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
The optimization problem is unchanged from the all engines operative ( AEO ) cruise optimization . You should still : Climb as high as practical ( <URL> , thinner air is better for range ) Set the lift coefficient such that drag is minimized for propeller aircraft ( $ c _ { Di } = c _ { D0 } $ ) . For turbojets , minimize energy per flight time ( $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { 1 } { 3 } \ cdot c _ { D0 } $ ) . For turbofans , pick a value between those two extremes . For the computation of the theoretical optimum polar point please see <URL> for a complete derivation including wind , or <URL> for a shorter explanation . Your flight altitude will certainly be lower , because you need to generate more thrust on the remaining engine ( requiring higher density ) , which in turn will result in a lower TAS ( true air speed ) . The CAS ( calibrated airspeed ) should stay about the same , however . The configuration ( flaps , gear ) should stay unchanged , only rudder deflection will be added for <URL> compensation . The resulting sideslip will increase the zero-lift drag of the airplane a little , so a slightly lower speed than in the AEO case would result . In the unlikely case that the required density will result in an altitude below ground level , you will need to slow down and need to set flaps to stay airborne , and now the new optimum with flaps will result in a markedly higher lift coefficient because deploying flaps will increase the zero-lift drag quite a bit . If you have the flaps-down polar , the optimum is easy to find .
The builders of an FDR must comply with <URL> ( the older <URL> may also be of interest here ) as per <URL> . These documents do not specifically define a data format but provide requirements for what it must be resilient against . Here is an <URL> that covers some of the topics you are asking about . Since most avionics use <URL> as their standard of communication some FDRs provide <URL> to record the avionics instructions at the time . I would assume these inputs dump the bus data right to the storage medium ( most likely solid state memory these days ) . Since the formats the device uses may be proprietary as well as very low level ( and memory efficient ) I am sure they make software to dump it to other formats . For example <URL> . After some more searching I found what may be the most comprehensive answer from this <URL> What Is a Data Frame ? A flight data recorder ( FDR ) data frame is the order of the words that are transmitted from the digital flight data acquisition unit ( DFDAU ) to the digital FDR ( DFDR ) each second over many seconds ( see ARINC 717 for additional information ) . Most FDR system data frames are made up of four subframes within one superframe . For a 64-words-per-second ( wps ) FDR system , a DFDAU will output 64 12-bit words to the FDR each second , where each word typically contains the value of an analog parameter . The order of the words ( for example , word number 12 of the 64 words ) within a subframe , as well as the order of the subframes , define an FDR data frame . This order is important to understand in order to decode the data recorded in the DFDR . It should also be noted although they may have all been phased out by now , some older cockpit voice recorders and FDRs recorded on analog mediums and may still be inservice doing so .
Hotel mode is a feature on ATR 42/72 turboprops replacing an APU by locking the right-hand # 2 engine ( PW100 ) with a ' propeller brake ' while allowing the turbine , and therefore also the generator , to run , providing electrical power and bleed air . ATR describes this as the following : The propeller brake is fitted on a countershaft on the RH engine reduction gearbox in order to stop the propeller ( and the power turbine ) HP ( High Pressure ) spool drives the DC generator . Bleed pressure is available downstream the HP compressor and supplies both packs . This picture should give you sort-of an idea of how it works : <URL> If I gather correctly , the propeller drive shaft is locked , and the ( HP ) compressor shaft is free to run . Here 's another pic of a PW100 engine : Hotel Mode seems to be generally disliked for a number of reasons : It 's very loud , especially if you 're lifting baggage next to it It consumes a lot of fuel , since you 're running a full engine . It could be dangerous if the propeller brake is in poor condition and suddenly loses its grip . This configuration is rare , if not unique . The rival Dash-8 has a separate APU , as does the Saab 2000 . It was an optional feature on the Fokker 50 . The smaller Jetstream 41 only has a battery . Source : <URL> .
The difference between both values is the energy set free when the water created by the combustion process condenses . Use the lower heat value for jet engine calculations . The water in a jet engine leaves it as vapor , and the vaporisation heat is lost for propulsion .
Assuming the question was referring to the US airport market , where indeed a big chunk of the airport fees are indeed taxes , here 's their composition according to <URL> :
end question
start question
What causes aircraft to swerve during takeoff ?
I know you said that you do n't think it 's a crosswind , but honestly it most likely is . As the plane speeds up and the wings start to generate more and more lift the plane is more easily affected by cross wind . So , as you speed up , it gets harder and harder to keep the plane straight . Throw in some gusts , and you 're going to get some jerking motions as well . Especially if that gust decreases the lift of the aircraft , the wheels suddenly catch the ground more and the craft is suddenly tugged harder than the pilot anticipated ... Here 's a video of a <URL> that should illustrate the point more .
You can see the requirements for all FAA medicals in <URL> . Specifically , S <URL> deals with second class medicals and <URL> deals with first class medicals . The only difference my cursory read of these regulations revealed is : x. 111 - Cardiovascular . A first class medical requires EKG after your 35th birthday and every year after age 40 . This leads me to believe any real differences are likely in the ME 's guidelines for issuing the medical , and I am not familiar with those . The only other differences relate to duration and requirement for the exercise of privileges . On your second question , if you apply for a first class medical and for some reason could not qualify for one , you will be denied or deferred even if you could hold a lower class medical ( this is also true of a second class application ) . The only possibilities at the end of a medical exam are walking out with a medical of the class you applied for or walking out without a medical . There is no fallthrough to a lower class . If you have an issue that you believe would inhibit your ability to get a first class medical , an avenue to explore this is through <URL> where you can talk with a doctor and get advice on your ability to pass a medical and support in handling a deferred medical application .
The operating procedures for the four airlines I worked for ( 2 commuters and two 747 carriers ) all called for the flying pilot ( which would be the first officer if it was their leg ) to retain control of the airplane until all relevant checklists had been accomplished . That said , it is , of course , the captain 's prerogative to take control at any point . That would , I think , be very unwise to do in the case of an engine failure during takeoff unless the first officer was really screwing up . The greater workload in the 747 during emergency/abnormal procedures lies with the non-flying pilot and the flight engineer ( old 3 man cockpit 747-100s and -200 s ) . The recommended procedure at my last two airlines was , if the captain was flying at the time of the failure , to hand control to the first officer after all relevant checklists had been completed , to thus enable the captain to give his full attention to how best to proceed . My personal and observational experience is that there is little difference between captains and first officers at the 747 level insofar as control manipulation during go/no go situations on the runway in simulators . In fact , I could point you to an accident resulting in the total loss of a 747 when the flying pilot was the Captain , and he elected to abort 30 knots after $ V_1 $ , thus insuring the aircraft would leave the runway .
First , you have to remember on some configurations , the lower stages of flap will mostly add drag and very little lift . Sometimes that extra notch of full flaps is only there to change the camber of the wing to add a bit of a nose down attitude to help with visibility on landing . Both are items you do not require on takeoff . Now , when selecting flaps for take-off there are two things to consider : runway length and obstacles to clear after the runway : Runway Length Generally when lowering flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ ( the speed at which you become airborne , " minimum unstick speed " ) will decrease . This means a shorter runway for normal stages of flaps . As you continue to add more flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ will be lower , but because of the added drag , which decreases acceleration , it will actually take a longer distance to reach that lower $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ . There is a sweet spot in-between , though . " Take-off Flaps " is not always designed to give you the shortest takeoff roll . Obstacle Clearance And that is because once airborne , the more flaps you have deployed , the higher the drag , the less excess thrust available , thus the less you can climb . Simply put , you are now flying at a low speed and barely climbing . Not a good idea if there are tall trees waiting for you at the end of the runway . It would be illegal to take-off on full flaps if : POH says it is prohibited , or For commercial flying , if the flap setting does not provide the minimum required gross obstacle clearance climb gradient ( depending on the type of operation and number of engines , between 2.4 % -3.0 % ) .
Actually he does push the button before selecting takeoff thrust . Often1 the procedure on jets during take-off is to move the thrust levers about half way , wait for the engines to spool up and only then select TO/GA or Flex thrust as desired . In the video the pilot switches the display during this intermediate step . So the engines are not even spooled up yet and the aircraft is still moving slow . Plenty of time to stop if anything fails . In fact even when nearing v ₁ the reaction does not need to be that fast . The calculation of v ₁ includes 2 s reaction time and correct response is more important . Look e.g. on <URL> ( it 's A330 , not A380 , but the procedure is the same ) . The reaction is not that fast ; they only retard the throttle after checking and calling the fault ( " engine fire " ) . 1It used to be that the engines could flame out if you added fuel too quickly , but that 's no longer the case now when engines are managed by FADEC ( full authority digital engine computer ) . Some manufacturers/airlines/pilots maintain the procedure , most likely to avoid applying full power if one of the engines manifests some problem early . Or at least the pilot in this video does it .
Yes , night landings satisfy the requirements of § 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) for both nighttime and daytime currency . The wording of the regulation is not crystal clear , and some ( including me ) have thought that the wording of ( a ) ( 2 ) required daytime landings for daytime currency . This is not the case , per the following interpretation from the FAA ( Springfield , IL FSDO , dated 16 April 2014 ) : Please note , in this section , there is no mention of a day or night differences in the regulation . In 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) the regulation specifically mentions the requirement for Night Takeoffs and Landings and the time period they can be completed in . If the passenger carrying will be done at night , the additional requirements of 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) must be met . The night takeoffs and landings , as required by 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) , will qualify for both the day and night requirement , provided all other requirements are met . The day takeoffs and landings will NOT qualify for the night ( section ( b ) ) requirement though . Stanley E. Swank II Aviation Safety Inspector Springfield , IL FSDO , AGL-19 Other sources on the Internet agree with this interpretation : <URL> : ... your three takeoffs and landings to a full stop at night will also fulfill the recent flight experience requirements for day currency . <URL> .
Briefly : yes , it 's possible ( but very unlikely ) ; small pressurized aircraft are the more likely scenario ; maybe it has happened but if so it 's very rare . According to the FAA 's AC on <URL> it 's possible and more likely to happen in a smaller pressurized aircraft : ( a ) Explosive Decompression . A change in cabin pressure faster than the lungs can decompress . Most authorities consider any decompression that occurs in less than 0.5 seconds as explosive and potentially dangerous . This type of decompression is more likely to occur in small volume pressurized aircraft than in large pressurized aircraft and often results in lung damage . [ ... ] ( b ) Rapid Decompression . A change in cabin pressure where the lungs can decompress faster than the cabin . The risk of lung damage is significantly lower in this decompression compared to an explosive decompression . Unfortunately they do n't cite any statistics or source for the statement " often results in lung damage " so it is n't clear when it has actually happened . Other sources suggest that it 's very rare , for example Beyond the Black Box : The Forensics of Airplane Crashes <URL> this : The Air Force reports no serious injuries resulting from rapid decompression with open airways , even while wearing an oxygen mask . However , disastrous , even fatal consequences can result if the breath is forcibly held with the lungs full of air . [ ... ] Lung damage is considered nearly impossible in a commercial aircraft because of the large volume of air inside the plane . [ ... ] Even <URL> [ ... ] did not decompress fast enough to cause internal injuries . In other words , it 's not going to happen unless you hold your breath , but <URL> says that you wo n't be able to do that anyway : I 've had pilots tell me they would be able to hold their breath [ in order to extend the <URL> . That wo n't happen . First of all , the surprise of the event will override any defensive measure you may have thought you could put into place . Secondly , the rapid change in pressure differential will make it impossible to hold your breath . ( Remember , we can be talking about a pressure differential of 8.8 PSI . Let 's put these pressure differentials into perspective . A differential of 8.8 PSI is 1267 pounds per square foot . I think the surprise is a key point here : the <URL> increases your breathing rate so even if it were physically possible to hold your breath it 's extremely unlikely that you would do so . Interestingly , Google finds numerous sources that claim lung injuries are commonly caused by aircraft decompression , but I could n't find any source that mentioned a specific incident or even any statistics on it . I did find <URL> that studied 47 incidents of aircraft decompression but there was only one single barotrauma event among them and it affected the ears , not the lungs .
Just to roll around on " unimproved " airfields ( grass/dirt/gravel strips ) , the biggest thing planes need is simply a decent set of tires : <URL> This MiG-29UN trainer shows off the fairly beefy main tires put on these planes specifically to allow them to more easily roll over minor imperfections in the runway/taxiway surface , including dirt/gravel/grass strips ( though here it 's landing on a traditional asphalt/concrete surface ) . Compare these to the relatively small gear wheels and low-aspect rubber on the similarly-sized F-16 : <URL> Now , your question oversimplifies things , because " foreign object debris " or FOD is in fact a primary danger of unpaved airstrips for jets , and this danger has to be accounted for in the design . Here 's the main reason the MiG-29 can take off from dirt : <URL> <URL> MiG-29s and similarly-minded Su-27s , and their variants , have special doors to close off the lower intakes normally used in flight , instead drawing in air through the gill-like ports over the top of the wing strakes . This prevents the engine from ingesting dust , rocks , birds , rodents , etc on takeoff and landing . This engine protection system , while effective , adds mechanical complexity and weight which U.S. designers and military brass have generally thought unnecessary given that requirements rarely include the ability to operate from unimproved strips . Most U.S. fighters in the jet age , therefore , have had to operate from airbases with some form of paved runway surface ( and the U.S. military actually has higher standards for runway surface quality than most international airports ) . The U.S. arsenal does , however , have several aircraft that are specifically designed to operate from rudimentary airstrips at forward bases . These designs avoid FOD damage primarily by keeping the engines up as high as the design will allow . For instance , the A-10 's two engines are on pods angled up on the fuselage between the wings and tail for a variety of reasons including FOD avoidance : <URL> Most of the other designs in the Western arsenal that can do this are high-wing designs with wing-mounted engines , which keep them out of the dust produced by takeoff and landing in a similar fashion . Here are a C-130 and C-17 landing at an Afghanistan forward base : <URL> <URL> The Harrier is a notable exception to this general strategy by Western designers of just keeping the engines out of any debris cloud . While it 's probably not done routinely , a Harrier can set down just about anywhere , and as this picture shows , it ingests no small amount of dust in the process : <URL>
No airplanes absolutely need a grass strip , but for some taildraggers ( airplanes which have a tailskid instead of a wheel ) it 's a real benefit because the grass is softer on the skid , and the friction of the grass improves control on the ground and helps slow the plane down . Pavement is n't that big a problem for skids make from more modern materials , but you can imagine it 's not going to do a slab of wood much good . Many vintage designs have no brakes or poor brakes , so having grass makes a big difference when landing , on pavement you 'd end up rolling a lot longer and have less directional control at low speed .
Spoilers lower lift and increase drag on the side where they are deployed . Symmetric spoiler deployment , therefore , is for slowing down . Asymmetric deployment not only creates a ( small ) rolling moment , but primarily a yawing moment which helps to counteract the <URL> created by ailerons , especially at the high lift coefficient at takeoff and early climb . Spoiler deployment increases pressure ahead of the spoiler due to the slowing of local flow ahead of the obstruction caused by the spoiler , and it creates a local flow separation at and behind the spoiler , which in turn lowers the local pressure . Only the first effect lowers lift , but both create drag . The main effect of a limited spoiler deflection , therefore , is to increase drag .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
This stopped after the World Trade Center attacks . You might be able to get a kid in briefly before the plane takes off .
It 's not just the big bombers flying long missions ; you 'd be surprised how many of the sorties flying over Afghanistan , Iraq , Syria , Libya etc originate from airbases in Northern Europe with refueling stops over the Mediterranean ( because closer airbases are n't available or are congested with aircraft from other forces or that have shorter ranges ) . The short and simple answer is , aircraft crews eat whatever they can bring with them , that wo n't make a huge mess in the process . A bigger plane like a B-52 has some room to get up and move , so the pilot may take 15 minutes during ingress or egress , duck out to the entryway and eat a box lunch , then come back and relieve the co-pilot so he can do the same thing . Radar , nav and weapons systems officers typically have a little room behind or between seats to step away and eat , or they 'll duck into the entryway as well . In smaller aircraft , space is more limited , but the pilot 's flight suit will still have plenty of pockets to carry food and drink pouches . There are some considerations as to the exact type of food , especially in one - and two-seat jets . A crewman has to prevent " foreign object damage " to the switches and displays in his cockpit , or else his crew chief ( and his CO ) will be all over him about it . Good choices include pre-wrapped bar-type snacks ; granola , protein , energy , some types of candy bars , whatever . Depending on what 's available in the mess hall , pilots may be able to assemble simple tortilla wraps with lunch meats and cheese , which are edible with one hand and fewer crumbs than a bread sandwich . Anything that can be put in a drink pouch , like broth or tomato soup , is also a possibility . Bad choices include things like trail mix , peanuts , M&amp;M s etc , as well as anything too loose to reliably keep together with one hand . The bigger concern is , what to do when it comes back out ? The B-52 has a rudimentary " head " , with what amounts to a camping toilet ( a bucket with a plastic bag liner and a toilet seat over the top ) called the " honeypot " . However , if it 's used , the crewman who used it is often tasked by the crew chief with cleaning it , so it 's considered a last resort . Crew of smaller aircraft have no such luxury , and unlike NASA astronauts , they would n't be caught dead wearing a diaper . Most fighter pilots eat a " low-residue " meal for the two or three meals before a very long mission or ferry flight , to reduce the chance they 'll have to BM during the flight ( some take an anti-diarrheal like Immodium as a preventive measure ) . Urination is a little easier to deal with , for men at least ; pilots carry packets with an absorbent powder ( not unlike what 's in diapers ) called " piddle packets " . The difficulty is typically in ... " maneuvering " . You have to get the equipment out of your flight suit , when you 're strapped down to the point of suffocation in a 6-point harness , then be able to aim into the piddle pack . Finally , you have to store this bag of piss somewhere until you get back to base , and as Rhino Driver is fond of explaining , if that base is a carrier , you have to make sure it 's extra-secure , or on capture it 'll go zooming forward toward the firewall and explode in a shower of damp absorbent crystals . Even if your squadron-mates do n't see you getting out of the plane covered in this stuff , your crew chief will be sure to tell them all about it .
That 's pretty much the checkride in a nutshell - for all the details on what 's expected you should refer to the <URL> for the rating you 're pursuing . Before your checkride At some point before your checkride you must take a " knowledge test " ( the " written exam " ) - you must pass that exam in order to qualify to take the checkride ( the " practical test " ) . The results of the knowledge test are good for 2 years . You will also receive instruction from your CFI specifically for " checkride preparation " ( you must have 3 hours of this instruction within the 60 days prior to taking your checkride ) . Usually your instructor or school will arrange for an examiner . Be sure to find out where he wants you to plan your cross-country trip to , and also ask for his weight ( so you can do the weight and balance calculations ) , and the cost of the checkride ( so you can have the money ready ) . The Oral Exam The day of your checkride1 you 'll probably spend at least as much time on the ground with the examiner than in the air . You 'll start with the practicalities : making sure your <URL> is in order , <URL> , and paying the examiner . Next , you 'll go over your logbook with the examiner ( do everyone a favor and bookmark all the things they 'll need to see ) , and then you 'll be given <URL> 2 by the examiner . You 'll be expected to know your aircraft 's V speeds , it 's useful load , and its fuel capacity ( in gallons and hours ) , and you might have to be able to answer intelligently based on a scenario , like " supposed you want to take 3 members of your football team 's lineup on a 300 mile trip ... " There will also be scenario-based regulatory questions ( " You 're taking your friends for a flight in the spring , but you have n't been in an airplane all winter . What do you need in order to be able to conduct this flight ? " ) You will also be expected to plan ( or have planned , depending on the examiner3 ) a cross-country flight ( including a weight and balance calculation using the examiner 's weight , and possibly including one or more fuel stops ) , and be able to explain your decision-making process for things like the planned course ( if you do n't fly in an absolute straight line ) and your proposed altitude ( s ) and en-route waypoint ( s ) . 1 - Usually you do the oral exam , then go fly . Sometimes you may do the oral one day and the flight portion another day - for example if the weather is lousy . 2 - This video is a little old , but a lot of it is still valid . 3 - You used to have to complete the flight plan the day of the exam , within 30 minutes , but that requirement has vanished from the PTS . The Flight Exam Every examiner conducts this a little differently - the tasks can be done in any order as long as they 're all accomplished - but everyone I know has had the same basic sequence of events on their checkride . After the oral you 're going to get an update to your weather briefing ( because you should ) , do a preflight inspection , get in the plane , and go fly your cross-country . I 've never met anyone who has actually flown the whole cross-country flight -- The examiner will typically have you fly through one or two waypoints to demonstrate that you can actually navigate , then you 'll be told that something has gone awry and you need to divert ( " The guy in the back is sick , take me to the closest airport before he hurls . " ) . When you 've demonstrated your ability to navigate and divert , you 'll usually cancel your flight plan ( if you opened one ) and break off to do the required air work . At some point during your checkride the examiner will give you an engine failure , because aircraft engines are supremely unreliable whenever an examiner or CFI is in the right seat . You will be expected to pick a suitable landing point , establish a glide to that landing point , and run the " engine failure " checklist appropriate to your plane . The engine usually " miraculously restarts " at some point once the examiner is confident you would have been able to put the plane down on your intended landing spot . The air-work consists of all the require flight maneuvers , such as steep turns , stalls , slips , and slow flight , the required ground reference maneuvers , and basic instrument maneuvers . Once the air work is complete you 'll return to the airport ( or maybe to the airport you diverted to ) for the dog-and-pony-show landings ( one go-around -- usually called by the examiner with something exciting like " There 's a moose on the runway ! Go around ! " , one normal landing , one short-field landing over an FAA-Standard 50-foot giraffe , and one soft-field landing ) . If you mess up and the examiner has to fail you they will tell you immediately after finishing the maneuver that you busted on . You usually have the option of continuing the test and completing the remaining tasks unless you did something that made the examiner fear for his or her life ( if you 're comfortable continuing this reduces the number of tasks you 'll have to complete when you re-take the checkride ) . Assuming
I know you said that you do n't think it 's a crosswind , but honestly it most likely is . As the plane speeds up and the wings start to generate more and more lift the plane is more easily affected by cross wind . So , as you speed up , it gets harder and harder to keep the plane straight . Throw in some gusts , and you 're going to get some jerking motions as well . Especially if that gust decreases the lift of the aircraft , the wheels suddenly catch the ground more and the craft is suddenly tugged harder than the pilot anticipated ... Here 's a video of a <URL> that should illustrate the point more .
<URL> means data read on the basic instruments . Not-raw data means enhanced information built from raw data and/or flight management system . <URL> bars are not raw data , but a computation from basic air data , desired airspeed , roll angle limit , etc. . At the next higher level , the <URL> can use the FD data to fly the aircraft . Similarly desired speed can be determined automatically and thrust can be managed by the <URL> . Taking off and climbing with FD , auto-throttle and autopilot <URL> Takeoff with FD and AP , just after liftoff ( A320 simulator ) . Source : <URL> The green bars of the FD shows what should be the attitude of the aircraft , SRS ( <URL> ) guidance law has been used to determine the desired 165 kt speed . The pilot may fly the aircraft manually using these non-raw data . In the present case the pilot has also activated another layer of assistance : Autopilot and auto-throttle . The AP follows the FD indications , and the thrust is managed by the auto-throttle so that the desired speed is achieved safely as soon as possible . The indication in the <URL> means autopilot , flight director and auto-throttle are currently selected / active . T/O with raw data Flying with raw data implies not using the FD or the SRS mode , nor the AP other modes or the auto-throttle . The crew must determine the attitude to be used after the T/O rotation , and during the climb . They also need to manage the thrust required . For example , the roll angle has to be determined manually , depending on all factors discussed above and the desired horizontal track . <URL> Takeoff without FD ( A320 ) . Source : <URL> Benefits Not using computer assistance helps maintaining and developing pilot skills and prevents dependency on automation that can always <URL> . The correct attitude , speed and thrust depend on many limits -- some are displayed in the <URL> band and the <URL> when they have video displays -- that the pilots must have in mind . So it 's usual that pilots perform manual take-offs and landings and raw-data operations . The frequency of such permanent training may be influenced by the <URL> ( standard operating procedures , SOP ) which can either encourage or discourage crews to use the airplane automatic features at certain phases of the flight . On modern aircraft there are some mechanisms ca n't be inactivated as the direct transmission between controls and corresponding actuators have been replaced , partially or totally , by <URL> . The conversion between actual pilot movements and electrical command signals is subject to some level of filtering provided by the fly-by-wire system . Other raw data operations <URL> . Raw data navigation . This post consistently uses Airbus-based explanations , as terminology varies between aircraft manufacturers ( but principles are mostly the same for this topic ) .
In the C172S POH I have , it 's on p. ii ( Performance - Specifications ) : 960ft ground roll and 1630ft total over a 50ft obstacle . The note on p. iii says : The above performance figures are based on airplane weights at 2550 pounds , standard atmospheric conditions , level , hard-surfaced dry runways and no wind . They are calculated values derived from flight tests conducted by Cessna Aircraft Company under carefully documented conditions and will vary with individual airplanes and numerous factors affecting flight performance . In other words , it 's a useful number to know but you 're unlikely to get exactly that performance unless you 're a Cessna test pilot in a brand new aircraft . If you own the aircraft ( or rent it often ) you might want to spend some time actually measuring takeoff distances yourself , to see what performance you 're really getting .
Thrust depends on speed and the type of engine . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Drag depends also on speed , and in addition on lift . During the takeoff roll the dynamic pressure grows with the square of speed , and drag is almost proportional to the dynamic pressure . Since the flow 's <URL> also increases with speed , the zero-lift drag coefficient ( aka friction plus pressure drag coefficient ) decreases with speed . Depending on the ground attitude of the aircraft it will create already some lift during the rolling phase , but lift substantially increases during rotation when it is raised to lift the aircraft off the ground . When the aircraft accelerates further after liftoff , the lift-dependent part of drag goes down with speed while the zero-lift part continues to increase with dynamic pressure . For most aircraft , thrust is highest when the aircraft is at rest ( constant pitch propellers can have a lousy efficiency at takeoff when they are optimized for fast flight , so here you might have higher thrust at some positive speed ) , and decreases the faster the aircraft moves through air . Since drag is also lowest with the aircraft at rest , the highest acceleration is possible right after brake release . As soon as the aircraft rotates , the new lift-dependent drag component will cause a marked decrease in acceleration , and when the aircraft climbs , some of the excess thrust needs to go into climbing , so acceleration decreases again . Newton 's first law gives a formula for acceleration a : $ $ a = \ frac { T - D } { m } $ $ where T is thrust , D is drag and m is the mass of the aircraft . The integration of acceleration over time gives speed . There is no single formula for the velocity curve , and my recommendation is to split the take-off into three sections : Ground roll , rotation and initial climb . In all phases you need to calculate with speed-depependent drag and thrust , so it will be best to integrate the parameters stepwise in small time steps . The comments encouraged me to give a more detailed list of drag components . These here have to be considered during the take-off roll : Zero-lift drag of the airframe ( due to friction and pressure ) Induced ( lift-related ) drag for the aircraft in horizontal attitude , including reduction due to ground effect Drag increment due to flaps in take-off position Landing gear drag Wheel friction ( 0.025 * weight on a hard runway , but a lot more on soft ground ) Kinetic energy loss or gain due to runway slope With rotation onset these drag components must be added : Trim drag due to elevator deflection to lift the nose Induced drag at the actual pitch angle When the aircraft lifts off , these changes must be considered : Reduced power for acceleration due to power requirement for climb No more wheel friction When the gear is retracted , drag increases as the doors open and is greatly reduced once all wheels are stowed . Ground effect is reduced as the aircraft climbs away from the ground Do n't forget to include wind speed in your calculation !
AOPA has a <URL> on this topic : You 're required to present pilot and medical certificates ( plus logbook if required for flight ) The inspector may not detain you The inspector may not board the aircraft without informing you But an inspector is authorized to check the following items : The airworthiness certificate The aircraft registration The operating handbook The weight and balance information The minimum equipment list ( if applicable ) Aeronautical charts ( if applicable ) The general airworthiness of the aircraft The ELT battery A VOR check The seats/safety belts . In general , saying as little as possible seems to be a good plan : If the ramp check is due to a possible violation , anything you say or do may be used against you . If you have enrolled in AOPA 's Legal Services Plan , call AOPA 's Pilot Information Center at 800/USA-AOPA immediately . The consequences for even minor infractions can be far more serious than you might think . As for a search warrant , a ramp check is an FAA administrative process , not a law enforcement action . The issue of law enforcement checking private aircraft is a <URL> currently and AOPA provides a <URL> in case you are stopped for search . Their recommendation is to refuse the search ( unless they have a warrant , of course ) but not interfere if they go ahead and do it anyway .
First , let 's agree on terminology : What you saw in airshows is a vertical flight path . Flying horizontally first , the airplane pitched up until the nose was pointing straight into the sky . Surprisingly , no thrust is needed to perform this maneuver . Even gliders can do it . What happens is that kinetic energy is converted to potential energy , the rate of potential energy increase being proportional to flight speed and aircraft mass . If you start fast enough , this vertical flying can be maintained for several seconds , until the aircraft runs out of speed and stops in midair , followed by an uncontrolled drop . Skilled pilots orient the aircraft in the right direction by starting a rotation around the vertical axis at the top of the climb , so the following drop lets them pick up speed again with the correct nose-down attitude . Now potential energy is converted back into kinetic energy until speed is sufficient for a pullout . In aerobatics , this maneuver is called <URL> A few conditions apply , however . The airplane must be able to fly fast enough to have the needed potential energy to sustain the maneuver through the pitch-up phase . This is helped if its engines add energy , so the kinetic energy bleeds off more slowly . Also , at the top of the maneuver it is flying at zero g , and this requires at least that all items on board are securely fastened . Lastly , the pitch-up needs a load factor bigger than 1 g , and the higher the maximum load factor is , the tighter this pitch-up can be flown . Now the question has been changed : The vertical flight path is flown right after take-off . This limits the entry speed for the maneuver , and gliders will not be able to do this . If we take the 737 from the question and fly it with no payload and little fuel , the flight mass $ m $ of a 737-700 is 40 tons , and the installed thrust is about 200 kN ( sea level static ) . Let 's assume that the pilot accelerates after takeoff to a horizontal speed $ v $ = 100 m/s ( 194 KTAS ) while retracting the flaps , the kinetic energy ( $ 0.5 \ cdot m \ cdot v ^ 2 $ ) is equivalent to a potential energy ( $ m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ ) of an altitude gain h of $ $ h = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot g } = 510 m $ $ The engines deliver less thrust with increasing speed ; maybe 40 % of the weight , so the airplane will still accelerate for the first 18 ° - 20 ° of the 90 ° flight path change . This will delay the point when speed has been bled off and add maybe 150 m to h . At 100 m/s a pull-up with a radius of 500 m will add a load factor of 2 g . The pilot needs to pull less first and harder at the end of the maneuver in order to stay within the <URL> . When speed bleeds off , so will wing lift , and in the second half of the pull-up the wing will not create enough lift to change the flight path enough in order to reach the desired vertical attitude . Also , the aircraft will be very low for a safe recovery . This makes it rather doubtful that an airliner can be pulled up to a vertical climb after takeoff . If the maneuver is started at a higher speed and with a little more distance from the ground , I see no reason why it should not safely be possible .
end question
start question
Why is the combustion temperature in a turbojet engine kept low ?
Because the fuel-air mixture in a turbine is <URL> than what it would be for a <URL> combustion . It needs to stay lean to restrict the maximum gas temperature inside the engine - higher temperatures lead to exponentially shorter lives of the turbine components .
Engine thrust is measured in flight by EPR - Engine Pressure Ratio . EPR is the ratio of the turbine exhaust pressure divided by the pressure measured at the fan or inlet . Indeed this is the measure used for a number of engines for setting thrust . More detailed airborne testing of engines is done during development , most manufacturers have airborne testbeds . The parameters recorded here probably measure in the hundreds or even thousands ...
The difference between both values is the energy set free when the water created by the combustion process condenses . Use the lower heat value for jet engine calculations . The water in a jet engine leaves it as vapor , and the vaporisation heat is lost for propulsion .
$ V_X $ published in the manual is $ V_X $ for flaps up . $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ will be slower than $ V _ { X _ { UP } } $ . Most likely , the speed in the procedure is , or is very close to $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ . $ V_X $ ( speed for angle of best climb ) occurs where the excess thrust ( $ T$ - $ D$ ) is the highest . Refer to the graph below : $ D$ is Induced drag ( $ D_I $ , varies with $ \ frac { 1 } { v ^ 2 } $ ) + Parasite drag ( $ D_P $ , varies with $ v ^ 2 $ ) . By extending the flaps , you are increasing only $ D_P $ and the graph describing $ D$ ( $ D _ { tot } $ in the graph ) moves upwards to the left . This means that the point for $ V _ { MD } $ moves to the left . Since $ V_X $ is found at max $ T - D$ it varies with thrust too ( which will vary differently , depending on the type of propulsion system ) , and is not automatically found at $ V _ { MD } $ , but the two speeds generally move together in the same direction . There 's also another , albeit marignal , effect ( that i did not put in the graph ) to take into consideration for the first 10-20 ft , and that 's the ground effect . In ground effect , the aircrafts $ D_I $ will be lower , further moving the $ D$ graph to the left , and downwards , resulting in a lower $ V _ { MD } $ , and therefore generally also lower $ V_X $
The check is performed to make sure the prop will actually feather when pulled past the feather gates . You 'll be in a world of hurt if you are not able to feather a prop if the engine quits . A couple hundeed RPM drop is acceptable ( generally ) . So called " deep cycling " props does nothing for you . I suppose that there are some goofy mechanisms on oddball planes that require a deep cycle but the vast majority only require you to observe a small drop . Remember , you are checking that the governor can control the prop , not how far the prop can travel . Edit : I should add that you should just do whatever the POH/AFM tells you to do .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
The specific reasons may be specific to each propeller/engine combination , but in general it seems to be related to stresses . According to this <URL> on page 2-2 : Stabilized ground operation between 400 and 1,150 propeller RPM is prohibited . Operation between 0 and 400 propeller RPM is permissible only with propeller feathered . STABILIZED GROUND OPERATION WITHIN THE PROPELLER RESTRICTED RPM RANGE CAN GENERATE HIGH PROPELLER STRESSES AND RESULT IN PROPELLER FAILURE AND LOSS OF CONTROL OF THE AIRCRAFT . This is probably due to the frequency of the aerodynamic forces at those RPM 's resonating with the frequency of the propeller , and getting amplified to unsafe stress levels . This is called ground resonance and is also an issue with helicopters . In addition to over-stressing the propeller blades , it can also affect the fatigue life . There is also a discussion in <URL> , and it is mentioned in <URL> . As voretaq7 mentions , fixed-pitch propellers have similar restrictions for similar reasons . Some engines include a damper that removes this restriction by damping out the resonance .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
Yes , temperature effects airplane performance both the engine itself and the aerodynamics involved . What Is Density Altitude ? Density altitude is pressure altitude corrected for nonstandard temperature . As temperature and altitude increase , air density decreases . In a sense , it 's the altitude at which the airplane " feels " its flying . How Will High Density Altitude Affect Flight ? On a hot and humid day , the aircraft will accelerate more slowly down the runway , will need to move faster to attain the same lift , and will climb more slowly . The less dense the air , the less lift , the more lackluster the climb , and the longer the distance needed for takeoff and landing . Fewer air molecules in a given volume of air also result in reduced propeller efficiency and therefore reduced net thrust . All of these factors can lead to an accident if the poor performance has not been anticipated . <URL> One way of looking at it is that higher temperatures make the airplane fly the way it would at a higher altitude where the air is less dense . An airplane can not climb to infinity , it has what is called a service ceiling [ and an absolute ceiling ] that the aircraft can no longer climb any higher . This also because of a decrease in air density , but for a different reason . Raising the temperature of the air also decreases this air density . You can use an <URL> or a Density Altitude Chart : to determine how the aircraft will fly . It is especially important at airports with short runways or high actual altitudes [ Denver , Colorado for example ] where the aircraft already may need to be near maximum performance . If the density altitude is 4,000 ft than that means that airplane will fly like it was at 4,000 ft at standard atmospheric temperature . Standard atmospheric temperature [ at sea level ] is 15 degrees Celsius or 59 degrees Fahrenheit . An airplane departing at a sea level airport , at 100F would feel like it is already flying at over 2600ft . An airplane departing at a 5,000 ft airport would feel like it is already flying at over 8700ft . If clearing the trees at the end of the runway was already a concern at this particular airport it may not happen anymore .
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
If the number of planes waiting on getting gutted is n't decreasing even though scrapping activities are happening that means there is a steady influx of end-of-life planes arriving to get scrapped . As long as there are planes and new planes being built ( most have a lifespan of a few decades ) there will be planes that need to get scrapped . You ca n't just dump the plane on a landfill or you will get nature activists on your case about the hazardous materials ( hydraulic fluid , remnant fuel , ... ) and recycle potential . Plus most components ( instruments , engines , the espresso machine in the galley , etc ) will still be usable and airliners will want to buy them as spares .
Fuel efficiency . One engine can run more efficiently than two , even if the two have the same power output combined than the one . Friction losses , inertia losses , etc. . . The same thing can be seen in commercial airliners today . Now that gas turbines have reached a very reliable state , and the regulations for overwater flight recognize this , we are seeing large two engine widebodies ( 777 ) replacing four engine widebodies ( A340 ) , partially due to lower maintenance costs ( cheaper to rebuild two large engines than four smaller ones ) but mainly for reasons of fuel consumption . The <URL> that made the round the world unrefueled flight had two engines , but only used both for takeoff and initial climb . After that , the one was shut down for the duration of the flight , for reasons of fuel consumption . Obviously , two engines are more reliable than one , and yes , a single engine long range flight is risky .
Another answer to add to caseys : Flow speed near the fuel injectors is very slow , on the order of 30 m/s . This is caused by a widening of the flow path between compressor exit and combustor called a diffusor or diffuser . See <URL> for more . Radiation from the burning fuel-air mixture in the middle part of the combustor heats up the not-yet-burning mixture near the fuel injectors , which helps the fuel droplets to evaporate ( this is a necessary step before combustion can start ) and causes the mixture to be heated above its <URL> . Hence , this radiated heat will provide the fuel-air mixture with the needed activation energy for combustion . Some combustors have small notches in their wall which create local turbulence and help to keep some of the burning fuel-air-mixture back , which helps to start ignition in the following flow . These are called flame holders . If all of the burning gas is washed out from the combustion chamber without igniting the following gas , the ignition process will stop . This is called a <URL> . The heat from the walls of the combustion chamber will not be enough to re-ignite the fuel-air mixture , because they are cooled by the airflow from the compressor and will rapidly cool down once the flame is blown out . Note that this effect is used to extinguish <URL> .
On modern turbojets the bypass air provides ( at least ) two things Thrust The air does bypass the engine core , but it is accelerated by the N1 fan and provides thrust as it is expelled rearward out of the engine . Thrust from the bypass air can contribute more than half of the total thrust produced by the engine ( upwards of 80 % of the total thrust for some engines in certain phases of flight ) . Part of the reason the bypass air is so efficient is that much energy is extracted from the core exhaust to spin the high and low pressure turbines ( dual spool ) that drive the N1 fan and the N2 compressor stages . Engine cooling and noise reduction Cool bypass air can be mixed with the hot air that went through the core at the rear of the engine . This mixing cools the engine exhaust and reduces the jet engine noise resulting from the rapid expansion of that air once it leaves the engine . The cool bypass air flowing around the engine core can also be used for general engine cooling .
From an older <URL> on mountain flying : Mountain Wave When the wind speed is above about 25 knots and flowing perpendicular to the ridge lines , the air flow can form waves , much like water flowing over rocks in a stream bed . The waves form down wind from the ridge line and will be composed of very strong up and down drafts , plus dangerous rotor action under the crests of the waves . If enough moisture is present , lenticular clouds can form to give a visual indication of the wave action . These clouds are reported in the remarks section of hourly sequence reports as ACSL ( altocumulus standing lenticular ) or CCSL ( cirrocumulus standing lenticular ) Pretty much sums up what you 're seeing I guess . As for action : Ridge and Pass Crossing On most mountain flights , you will need to cross at least one ridge or pass . Experienced pilots recommend crossing a ridge or pass at the ridge elevation plus at least 1,000 feet . If the winds at mountain top level are above 20 knots , increase that to 2,000 feet . Plan to be at that altitude at least three miles before reaching the ridge and stay at that altitude until at least three miles past it . This clearance zone will give you a reasonable safety zone to avoid the most severe turbulence and down drafts in windy conditions . If conditions or airplane performance dictate , you may need to fly along the windward side of a ridge to find updrafts for gaining altitude before crossing a ridge . You may also need to circle before reaching the ridge if climbing out of a valley airport . When you actually cross a ridge , you should do so at a 45 • angle to the ridge . This allows you to turn away from the ridge quicker if you encounter a severe downdraft or turbulence . Once you have crossed the ridge , turn directly away from it at a go • angle to get away from the most likely area of turbulence quickly . Plan your crossing to give yourself the ability to turn toward lower terrain quickly if necessary . As for helicopter mountain flying specifically , I 'm afraid you are unlikely to find somebody on here with that experience . You might have better chance on searching for it online and phoning up flight schools that offer such courses ( I found a few in the states ) for information .
Q1 : Assuming that by operating temperature you mean turbine inlet temperature , <URL> article says the Pratt &amp; Whitney F135 engine in the F-35 ( JSF ) has a TIT of 3600F , but that most high performance aircraft engines do not exceed 3000F , while non aviation engines are nearer 2700F or lower . Exact figures for modern engines are very unlikely to be stated in public . Mattingly , in his <URL> " Elements of Propulsion : Gas Turbines and Rockets " has a table ( 6-2 , P363 ) that gives a general guideline , depending on the age of the engine . He says : 1955-1965 2000 R = 1540F 1965-1985 2500 R = 2040F 1985-2005 3200 R = 2740F 2005-2025 3600 R = 3140F The GE <URL> gas turbine which had its first run in 1954 is claimed to have a TIT of 1710F , so these guidelines look reasonable . Q2 : Increasing the turbine inlet temperature allows more fuel to be added , which increases thrust and hence thrust to weight ratio , and specific thrust ( thrust per lb of air ingested ) . Increasing TIT ( at the same pressure ratio ) also has some effect on improving the specific fuel consumption . At the same TIT , SFC is improved by increasing the compressor pressure ratio . The chart <URL> shows the effects for a particular engine , the specific effects will differ for each engine depending on the bypass ratio etc. . <URL> Q3 : There are three methods that can be used to cool turbine parts . The primary approach is to bleed off a portion of the compressor exit air , which then bypasses the combustion , and is feed into the turbine vanes and blades . The below picture also includes <URL> for the % flow of compressor exit air that is used . <URL> Other methods that are often used as well include the use of small holes over the blades and vane surfaces , through which the cooling flow emerges . This provides a film of cool air over the part , and is known as film cooling ( left picture ) . On some more modern engines , thermal barrier coatings are also used ( right picture ) . These are ceramic coatings that act as insultion of the base metal from the hot gas . Usually the TBC is added as an extra method to help gain additional part life . But sometimes , the TBC is needed to obtain the base life , and is then know as <URL> . <URL> <URL>
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
Volume Orders Discounts These result in significant discounts to the airline . While discounts are commonplace in the industry , Ryanair ordered 737-800 for an estimated 40-50 million dollars as compared to the list price of around 90 million dollars . With an order of that size Boeing could not risk losing it to another manufacturer , and will be satisfied with less profit per aircraft . <URL> Fleet strategy : Some airlines sell their old aircraft after only a few years while their value is still high but the maintenance costs start to increase . Increased maintenance is bad when you try to squeeze out as many flights as possible and you have small profit margins on every flight . You can find some of Ryanair 's old aircraft by the company code ( AS ) with other operators by searching 737-8AS . Another <URL> is that the customers perception of Low-Cost airlines is generally negatively biased and having new aircraft counters this effectively . Old Aircraft Some operators ( such as charter operators ) will not have the same sensitivity to a slightly higher fuel consumption on their aircraft . They may not use their aircraft the same number of hours , so having an increasingly expensive jet sitting on the ground is not cost-efficient . The aircraft ordered by IndiGo are all new fuel efficient A320NEO . Some of these ideas are emphasized in your link . Of its 530 orders from IndiGo , Airbus has so far delivered 99 aircraft . The airline currently has a fleet of 83 planes and has phased out 16 planes that were over six year old or among the first in its fleet . A bit of Ryanair strategy is outlined in <URL> .
Please do not worry about the loss in lift . It is real , but so small that it can be neglected . A poor flap or aileron seal will cost you more in L/D than the dihedral ever will . The loss is proportional to the difference of the cosine of the dihedral angle to unity . With 5 ° ( which is on the upper end of typical values for low wing aircraft ) this is just 0.38 % . The exact amount of dihedral depends a lot on details of the configuration : Aspect ratio of the wing Fuselage size relative to wing root chord <URL> Directional stability In general , you need a <URL> between $ c _ { l \ beta } $ ( dihedral effect ) and $ c _ { n \ beta } $ ( weathervane effect ) .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
end question
start question
Why do military pilots report " gear down " during their traffic calls ?
<URL> In the U.S. , for Military aircraft , ATC is required to : " Remind aircraft to check wheels down on each approach unless the pilot has previously reported wheels down for that approach " . [ ref : <URL> , para . 2-1-24 ] Normally , the phraseology suggested in your question would reflect the pilot 's response to this ATC reminder . ( For example : " [ call sign ] Check Wheels Down , Cleared for [ whatever ] " )
At a large airport , all aircraft movements are coordinated by the ATC tower on the ground frequency . Aircraft should never move without authorization from the controller . The tower will issue instructions to aircraft that might look something like this : Taxi to Gate 1 via Alpha , Alpha 1 , Lima 3 , cross runway 24 , hold short Delta . These names correspond to markings on the ground that match up with the airport taxiing maps . By talking with the pilots , the controllers are able to build up a map of where aircraft are . It also helps that they can look out the window and see the aircraft on the ground . At airports without a tower , taxiing is n't much of an issue . There are n't many planes around , and there 's generally only one runway and not many taxiways . Nevertheless , aircraft taxiing when there is no ground controller comply with " see and be seen " by looking outside and turning on aircraft lights . Furthermore , if the aircraft has a radio , it should self-announce its movements on the ground .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
The National Weather Service 's 148 WSR-88D Doppler radars can detect most precipitation within approximately 90 mi of the radar , and intense rain or snow within approximately 155 mi . However , light rain , light snow , or drizzle from shallow cloud weather systems are not necessarily detected . -- <URL> As Ron Beyer <URL> , the METAR shows light drizzle .
When instructed to report something . ATC : Cimber 626 turn left heading 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , report established Pilot : Heading left 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , WILCO , Cimber 626 ATC : OYABC airborne time 33 , report passing Dalhem Pilot ; ( Roger ) , WILCO , OYABC ATC : Lufthansa 135 , traffic is a Boeing 737 on 5 miles final for runway 09 , report in sight Pilot : WILCO , Lufthansa 135
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
That same thinking , " dogfighting is dead " , got the USAF and USN in serious trouble in Vietnam . The U.S. Armed Forces were convinced that the next major war would be against the Soviet Union directly , in theaters including Europe , Alaska and Canada , and as a result , fighter designs succeeding the very successful Sabre and Super Sabre day fighters used in Korea began emphasizing standoff capabilities , believing the aerial threat would come from various classes of nuclear bomber , calling for fast , long-range missile-armed interceptors as a counter . That war , thankfully , never materialized . Instead , the U.S. was pulled into more or less another Korea , a proxy war fought between Soviet-supplied and trained Communist forces against a U.S.-backed fledgling democracy . The big , heavy U.S. F-4 Phantom interceptor and F-105 Thunderchief light bomber , neither of which had internal guns , found themselves facing the older like-minded successor to the MiG-15s they faced in Korea , the MiG-17 , coupled with the MiG-21 close-range interceptor . Instead of the long-range standoff air war the USAF was built for , US pilots were ambushed at close range by guns and infrared missiles , resulting in a piss-poor 2:1 kill/death ratio in aerial engagements , compared to the 14:1 ratio they enjoyed in Korea . The result was increased attention paid to " air combat maneuvering " , and an emphasis on this style of combat in the next generation of fighters adopted by the U.S. military . The F-14 and F-15 , though intended to bring back dogfighting ( and they did ) , turned out to be big , fast interceptor-style fighters like their predecessors , that still only had a clear advantage in BVR engagements . So a group of USAF generals , seeing what its allies had been doing with the F-5 Tiger that the Joint Chiefs had more or less passed on ( a few trainers , a few aggressor planes , but no combat adoption ) , commissioned the LWF competition , which would produce the F-16 and F-18 lightweight multirole fighters with an emphasis on the close-quarters maneuverability that the Communist powers never really forgot . The F-22 splits the difference between the F-15 and F-16 's air combat strategies , producing a heavier but highly maneuverable fighter that excels at air combat at any range ( but is so expensive that so far the USAF have only deployed them in situations where they would never face any real threat ) . The F-35 , however , is rapidly becoming a disappointment ; compared even to the F-16 or F-15E it will replace , it " ca n't climb , ca n't turn , and ca n't run " , and the A variant is the only one with an internal cannon ( which carries only 182 rounds of ammunition compared to the F-22s 480 , the F-15 's 650 and the F-16 's 510 ) ; the STOVL B variant and the Navy 's C variant wo n't have guns at all . In today 's military theater , the U.S. enjoys " air supremacy " ; we 're fighting largely paramilitary forces with practically zero air to air capability . Tomorrow 's theater , however , may be quite different . Diplomatic relationships with a number of Russian-supplied nations including Russia itself are souring day by day , and the U.S. could easily find itself drawn into conflicts over Taiwan , the Korean peninsula , India/Pakistan , the Ukraine , etc , where they 'd face militaries fielding Russian jets purpose-built to mix it up at visual range . In short , while the U.S. has n't directly fought a conflict against a serious air threat since Vietnam , there are a lot of potential near-future conflicts in which they would get their chance , facing the Sukhoi PAK-FA or Chengdu J-20 with skilled Chinese or Russian pilots at the stick . Even if these fighters are n't fielded in mass numbers , the U.S. would still face the Russians ' direct answers to U.S 4th and 4.5-generation fighters , including the MiG-29 and Su-27 / 30/33 . Many variants of these were specifically designed to out-maneuver the U.S. F-15 , F-16 and F-18 ( which would likely be the first jets in-theater ) , and which would still be a match for the F-22 in a visual-range " furball " .
Gates are usually not charged to airlines separately . Gate fee is usually part of the landing fee package . Landing fees are an important part of the airport revenue , with passenger fees . Airport pricing is subject to recommendations from ICAO , IATA , and other organizations , as regard scope of costs to be taken into consideration , and non-discrimination of airlines . Pricing is determined by the organization managing the airport and/or State or local administration . Single till vs dual till : Distinguishes between aeronautical and non-aeronautical ( commercial ) charges . Airport schedule pricing may use single or dual till . See : <URL> - IATA . <URL> . ICAO guidelines tries to maintain some principles for airport business across all countries : Landing charges : Should be based on the aircraft weight formula . The maximum certificated take-off weight as indicated in the certificate of airworthiness ( or other prescribed document ) should be used , while considering local restrictions that may affect aircraft maximum take-off weight . Allowance should be made for the use of a fixed charge per aircraft or a combination of a fixed charge with a weight-related element , in certain circumstances , such as at congested airports and during peak periods . Parking and hangar charges : For the determination of charges associated with use of parking , hangar and long-term storage of aircraft , maximum permissible take-off weight and/or aircraft dimensions ( area occupied ) and length of stay should be used so far as possible as the basis.Any period of free parking time for aircraft immediately following landing should be determined locally by considering aircraft scheduling , space availability and other pertinent factors . Other charges : -- Passenger service charges -- Security charges -- Noise-related charges -- Emissions-related aircraft charges Albeit a bit old , The Airport Business by Rigas Doganis has a chapter on <URL> which discusses this topic in depth . Extracts : Landing fees : Charged per aircraft , usually based on MTOW ( maximum takeoff weight ) . On most airports covers ATC , runways , taxiways , parking at stand or apron for a certain time ( e.g. 2 hours ) , use of gates / fingers / terminal for disembarking ( use for departure may be paying ) , take-off . Surcharges or rebates in addition of landing fees : For noise , peak-hour operations , Parking and hangar : Beyond the free-parking period covered by the landing fees . Usually based on weight . Passenger charges : per departing passenger , sometime per arriving passenger too . It is easy to find pricing for airports online . <URL> airport ( 2015 ) Rates are different for domestic and international flights . Charges per passenger for landing and passenger facility . For domestic flights , additional landing charges per ton of MTOW . Charges for diversion . Parking charges beyond 2 hours , paid per arrangement with airport . New York <URL> ( 2015 ) Charge for aircraft landing , per thousand pounds of MGLW ( maximum gross landing weight ) . Additional charge for day landing or takeoff ( not for schedule airlines ) . Charge for using public passenger ramp and apron area ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking and storage , per 8-hour slot , based on MGTOW ( maximum gross takeoff weight ) . Agreement possible for operators of aircrafts . No charge for air terminal use . Charge for each passenger departing . <URL> ( 2013 ) Landing fee , based on MGLW , different between permitted and non-permitted air carriers . No charge for remote gates bussing service . Charge for using ramp , apron and remote area , ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking , per 1000 lbs of MGLW , per day , after 3 hours .
ATC frequencies do n't change very often , but when they do they are planned well in advance . NOTAM 's are issued ahead of time to let people know , and if the airport has ATIS they will include the new frequency on the ATIS . If it is an enroute frequency , the other controllers will simply hand you off to the new frequency , and you do n't even need to know about it ahead of time .
The tailwheel is much lighter and smaller than a nose wheel . That means reducing airplane overall weight and drag ( because the landing gear is usually fixed ) . And it 's probably cheaper , too .
It 's required by law , at least in the US . <URL> , Cockpit control knob shape specifies these shapes for the flap and gear controls on smaller aircraft : <URL> For larger ( transport category ) aircraft , <URL> specifies the same thing : <URL> As for why those shapes are specified , it 's for at least two reasons : The shape resembles the thing it controls , so it 's an obvious memory aid The controls are all shaped differently , therefore you can distinguish them by touch alone , without needing to look at them As others <URL> , there have been accidents in the past caused by pilots using the wrong controls , and this is one reason why the FAA decided to do something to standardize them . Parts 23 and 25 also state where the controls should be placed , for the same reason . The FAA 's <URL> says : There have been many cases of the pilot mistakenly grasping the wrong handle and retracting the landing gear , instead of the flaps , due to improper division of attention while the airplane was moving . They recommend - and I was taught - leaving the flaps alone after landing until clear of the runway ( unless you have a good reason for retracting them earlier , like a short-field landing ) , then check and retract them with the statement " flaps identified and retracted " . " Identified " in this case simply means that you 're sure you have the right control in your hand . Some instructors even avoid touch-and-goes in complex aircraft ( i.e. with retractable gear ) because they feel the risk of retracting the gear rather than the flaps during the maneuver is too high ; they stop and go instead , even if that means taxiing back for takeoff .
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
Of course gear doors create drag when open . The question is " how much ? " As you suspect , door drag is not the critical factor here . As usual the answer to your question is aircraft-specific , and your question is pointing to a generalized " old wive 's tale " which is only true sometimes . OK , what is the story behind the story ? <URL> . Watch the main gear as it enters/exits the storage wells in the fuselage . The axles of the wheels are close to parallel to the direction of flight , which means the wheels are being dragged broadside in the slipstream . A very high drag scenario which will affect aircraft performance . The POH recommendation is ( from memory , now ) to climb over critical obstacles on takeoff with the gear down , and raise the gear only when the obstacle is cleared . The attached video shows why . This advice does not pertain to all planes . Know your plane , read the POH . Oh ... and ask questions here !
<URL> In the U.S. , for Military aircraft , ATC is required to : " Remind aircraft to check wheels down on each approach unless the pilot has previously reported wheels down for that approach " . [ ref : <URL> , para . 2-1-24 ] Normally , the phraseology suggested in your question would reflect the pilot 's response to this ATC reminder . ( For example : " [ call sign ] Check Wheels Down , Cleared for [ whatever ] " )
do they fly in a pilot ( like mid-air refuel ) ? No , that is n't really feasible ! See answers to <URL> do they leave it to the co-pilot to take care of such situations ? Yes . In both normal and emergency situations , the co-pilot is able to fly the aircraft , navigate to a nearby airport and land the aircraft without the assistance of the senior pilot . From <URL> Here are some lines of defense : The remaining pilot must assume or maintain control Establish a safe flight profile and engage the autopilot ; use all possible automation Obtain cabin crew assistance Inform ATC If on an extended-range twin-engine operations ( ETOPS ) flight , the remaining pilot or PIC must assess whether to continue the flight , return to the departure airport or divert . The decision is based on : Weather conditions at the destination or alternate Reduction of flight time if diverting Workload involved in single-pilot operation Familiarity with the alternate Condition of the incapacitated pilot Availability of medical assistance Overall safety of the flight Arrange medical assistance upon arrival Brief a cabin crew member to assist if required Complete the approach and landing using the autopilot as much as possible A partially incapacitated pilot should not be allowed to participate in the subsequent operation of the aircraft , as judgment may be impaired After landing , seek immediate medical assistance See also <URL> The remaining pilot must first assume command and maintain control of the aircraft . Furthermore the position of essential controls and switches should be checked , and in nearly all cases , use of the autopilot should be made and an emergency be declared . Use of the autopilot and priority of air traffic service are two obvious and effective ways of maintaining a tolerable level of workload . The second step is to take care of the incapacitated flight crew member . The grounds for this are not entirely humanitarian ; if left unattended an incapacitated pilot can become a major problem and in any case is a major distraction to the remaining crew . Thus the incapacitated pilot must be moved out of the range of flight controls . In all cases , the advisability of removing a pilot ( perhaps unconscious ) from the seat must be dictated by consideration of the phase of the flight , the crew available , and the contours of the flight deck . Note : Consideration of the restraint and care of an incapacitated pilot dictates that cabin attendants are at least familiar with the operation of harness and seat controls Finally , and after the incapacitated flight crew member has been taken care of , the remaining flight crew should re-organise the cockpit work and prepare for landing . Details will depend on many variables including such considerations as the type of aircraft being flown , phase of flight , en route and terminal weather , and many others . How does commercial airlines prepare themselves for these kind of situations . I imagine that it involves the usual measures make pilots take regular medical tests . make pilots responsible for reporting own or crew illness , fatigue etc. prevent pilots eating the same meals in-flight . write procedures for pilot incapacitation in-flight . train flight crew to perform those procedures review and revise the above based on experience of relevant events . From what I 've read , non-pilot flight-crew are often given very basic training so that they understand the basics of flight . For example <URL> requires flight attendants initial training to include a pilot-incapacitation drill , an understanding of aircraft parts including rudder , ailerons etc , principles of flight , etc etc. . Do they specifically check if there are any pilots in the passenger manifest I believe the airline staff would often be aware of any airline pilots onboard ( e.g. <URL> ) but not of GA or military pilots flying as normal passengers .
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
While there is a chance it can interfere with aircraft equipment there are lots of other reasons as well . It 's disturbing , you would not want a can full of people yapping on their phones for 5 hours while others tried to sleep . Lets be honest does asking someone to " Keep It Down " ever really work . It 's very taxing on the cell network itself . Without going into lots of detail about how <URL> , the short and sweet of it is that when you are moving ( say in a car ) your phone is constantly hopping form tower to tower . At the speeds a plane moves at you would hop tower at a rate that would be far more taxing on the system than when you are in a car and could lead to dropped calls and other connection issues . You need to listen up ! While the laws on in flight entertainment have become more relaxed over time , one of the reasons you are not to use things during takeoff and landing is these are critical times in the flight ( for something to go wrong ) and if it does , you need to be attentive and able to listen to instructions . This , on some level , holds true for the whole flight as well I would think . The phone itself occupies <URL> outside of the band that <URL> however there is always a possibility when you have 2 EM waves that <URL> .
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
end question
start question
Is there a European equivalent of VFR Flight Following ?
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
end question
start question
What should pilots state initially when telephoning a weather briefing facility for preflight weather information ?
It 's in <URL> 5-1-1 ( f ) : When requesting a preflight briefing , identify yourself as a pilot and provide the following : Type of flight planned ; e.g. , VFR or IFR . Aircraft 's number or pilot 's name . Aircraft type . Departure Airport . Route of flight . Destination . Flight altitude ( s ) . ETD and ETE Personally , I 've never given or been asked for the aircraft type ( although I have it on my <URL> profile so they should have it ) , but the other items come up . My typical request is something like this : This is N12345 , I 'd like a standard briefing for a VFR flight from KMDQ to KLOU at 5500 ' , ETD at 1600Z , ETE 2h15
The simplest answer is that United and Thai have a codeshare arrangement , so United booked a ticket on all 4 segments using its own reservation system . United 's reservation system communicated with Thai 's to reserve your place , and the ticket was issued by United . that being said , there are a number of GDSs ( Global Distribution Systems ) , which are multi-airline reservation systems , all of which communicate with each other . <URL>
This answer will be quite anecdotal ( I have not seen a survey on the question ) . It will answer the question for " most people I 've worked with " , and for " my " aircraft ( B737NG ) . Also , the usual disclaimer : different airlines/aircraft manufacturers may have different SOPs/instructions/limitations . Consult your manuals . In general : most pilots will leave FD on , IF it still provides useful and reliable information , without being an obstruction/nuisance ( i.e. when configuring it to give correct guidance would be more trouble than it 's worth , given that you already have visual references ) . This philosophy is also usually what you 'll find in an airline SOP , but in more formal language . I 'll try to provide some examples ( non-exhaustive ) to illustrate this depending on how you were set up before being cleared for the visual approach : ILS to straight in landing Leave the FD on until landing ( on my aircraft , B737NG , it will disappear at 50 ft RA ) , both localizer and glideslope will give usable and reliable information to the FD . ( Caveat : in visual conditions , ATC might be less strict about avoiding signal interference . They might for instance let an aircraft on the ground taxi to cross your runway while you 're on approach , which could cause localizer/glideslope interference ) . ILS to sidestep Most would turn the FD 's off . Both localizer guidance and glideslope guidance will be to the " wrong " runway . The FD is likely to be more of a nuisance than a useful tool . Non-ILS approaches with no centerline offset The Localizer/LNAV path will give good lateral guidance to the FD . The vertical guidance will depend on the approach and your equipment . If the aircraft generates a good quality vertical path , which crosses the runway threshold at a reasonable height ( 50 ft ) , there is no real good reason to turn the FD 's off . If all you have is vertical speed ( V/S ) guidance , it might be more helpful to turn FD 's off . Non-ILS approaches with centerline offset ( for example most VOR approaches ) At some point during the approach , you 'll want to abandon the approach course , and line up with the runway . Where this point occurs depends on specific approach , and how you intend to fly it . Example : A VOR approach to runway 36 ( runway heading 000 ) might use a VOR 1 nm east of the runway with inbound course 005 . You might want to stay on the inbound course of the VOR until it crosses the extended runway centerline . In this case , most people would keep the FD on until reaching this point , and then turn it off , as it wo n't give you any useful guidance afterwards .
The National Weather Service 's 148 WSR-88D Doppler radars can detect most precipitation within approximately 90 mi of the radar , and intense rain or snow within approximately 155 mi . However , light rain , light snow , or drizzle from shallow cloud weather systems are not necessarily detected . -- <URL> As Ron Beyer <URL> , the METAR shows light drizzle .
There are 2 different black boxes . The cockpit voice recorder . This holds audio from several different sources , including the microphone for each pilot , the radio and a general cockpit microphone . The flight data recorder holds at least 88 different parameters including attitude of the craft , engine performance , autopilot setting , pilot input one the controls , etc. .
There 's no mention that I can find of " landing long " ( " landing deep " is sometimes used outside the US ) in the FAA 's <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . So it 's fairly safe to say that it 's an unofficial instruction ( assuming I did n't miss it somewhere ) . The main reason for doing it is to avoid a long taxi after landing , but I suppose there could be other reasons too , like coming in too high on a long runway or avoiding wake turbulence . The point of requesting it - and not just doing it - is that it may mess up sequencing at a busy airport because you take more time to clear the runway , with the result that the tower has to instruct the aircraft following you to go around . As my first instructor said , " once you 're cleared to land it 's your runway " . I 've never been asked by ATC to do it but I have been asked by the tower to " land short " , to minimize my time on the runway and let an airline flight take off ASAP . However , it was clearly phrased as an informal request , not an instruction ; something like this : N12345 Clear to land 36L , appreciate a short landing if you can manage it So I think the conclusion is that landing " short " or " long " is simply an informal way for pilots and ATC to make things work a bit more smoothly .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
I have flown several times to SJC for touch and goes . I have always been on the weekends , and probably in the afternoons . It is a lot of fun , especially because the runways are so long for a small plane . I think I 've been three times , and each time they have accommodated me on 30L . The wind is almost always favoring the 30 runways , and I do n't remember ever being cleared for 30R . They will occasionally make you circle briefly before entering the C . They will also sometimes make you extend for a pretty long pattern to the SE if they have a big fella cleared for 30R . All the big commercial jets seem to be sent to 30R , and it is small GA jets that use 30L . I have only done touch and goes , as I wanted to get out of the way quickly . But I get the impression that the tower is happy to accommodate as long as they 're not too busy . My instructor told me that they sometimes will say ' no ' if they are busy , especially during the morning push , but I have no experience of that . Have fun ! There 's a beautiful 787 that is often at the terminal , keep an eye out for it !
At least in the US there are plenty of ways to get a flight briefing . My usual sources of pre-flight information are , roughly in order : <URL> No kidding , if I 'm planning a long/multi-day trip I 'll start looking at the long-range forecasts 10 days before my flight using The Weather Channel 's iPhone app or their website . As far as weather information goes it 's pretty decent ( which means " frequently wrong up until 24 hours before go-time , but still worth paying attention to " ) . Charts ( <URL> or <URL> ) , <URL> , and <URL> If you 're planning more than a hop around the local pattern you should familiarize yourself with the airspace you 'll be passing through , landmarks ( and obstacles ) on the ground , and navaid / airport frequencies . Charts and other FAA publications provide a great way to do that , and you can also usually pick up a phone and call the airport you 're flying to for additional information . All of this documentation is available in a variety of forms - Paper , electronic downloads direct from the FAA ( as linked above ) , or as part of flight-planning software like Foreflight , Garmin Pilot , WingX Pro , etc. . <URL> A few days before a planned flight it 's worth reading the forecaster 's discussion to see how confident the people predicting the weather are about their guesses . This is also something you should check the day of departure if there 's any uncertainty about the weather . Electronic briefing tools ( <URL> / <URL> / Foreflight/etc . ) About 24 hours out you can get official briefings from DUAT/DUATS/Foreflight and a bunch of other flight planning tools . Get them and learn to read them . Electronic briefings from many of these tools are recorded and count as an " official briefing " - a record is made that you requested and received the information . You are responsible for understanding all the information that just got dumped in your lap however , and that 's a huge responsibility , especially for a student pilot ! <URL> ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) The day of departure your final briefing should be a phone call to flight service to speak with an actual briefer to review your flight . If you can sit down and have your electronic briefing from # 3 in front of you it 's very helpful because you can follow along with the briefer to be sure you did n't miss anything . Calls to Flight Service are recorded and count as an official briefing . If you 're unclear on anything you 're being told you can ask for clarification . Of all the tools available I personally think the best one is calling flight service and speaking to a briefer . <URL> I 'd say they 're skipping out on a critical bit of your training , and you owe it to yourself to pick up the phone and . This is your big chance to talk to a live human being and ask any questions - big ones that I always ask are " Are there any TFRs along my route of flight ? " , and if I 'm anywhere near a restricted area I 'll check its status ( " Is R-12345 active ? " ) .
The FAA 's <URL> contains broad statistical information on activity in the national airspace system which can be used to get an idea of how " busy " a particular Center , TRACON , or Tower facility is . The caveat is this data only encompasses aircraft talking to Air Traffic Control , so it wo n't be able to tell you anything about uncontrolled fields except possibly what you can glean from Center/TRACON activity information for the greater area . I 'm not sure where they get their data from , but <URL> has annual reported data for each airport in their Airports &amp; FBO 's database : For example , this is for KBRY ( which is uncontrolled ) :
There are two aspects here , one what is required legally and then what may be required locally . From a legal standpoint ( in your case ) the basic PPL will allow you to fly single engine , fixed pitch prop , under 200HP , fixed gear aircraft . If you want to go over 200 HP you will need a High Performance check out and log book endorsement . For a constant speed prop/folding gear/movable flap ( all 3 are required to require this endorsement ) plane you will need a complex endorsement in your log book . You may want to fly something like a Piper Cub which will require a tail wheel endorsement . If you are lucky enough ( and have the funding to do so ) you may find your self in a small pressurized single ( or twin ) like the <URL> or <URL> these planes will require a high altitude checkout as well . <URL> . If you want the full <URL> . Now as for a club or school that depends on a variety of factors including their insurance and their personal limits . I 'll offer some personal experience which seems to be pretty par for the course . The flight school I fly from requires a checkout in type from every new renter before you can fly it even if you have a PPL and the proper endorsements . They do n't have an official amount of time but it usually takes about an hour with an instructor . The former flight school I was at had the same deal with the exception of their Saratoga which they also required an instrument rating ( along with their checkout ) . My buddy 's flight club is somewhat similar . They require a check out in their Archer and Dakota to fly solo . They also have a <URL> . As for your log book you should be logging the full type of aircraft for every flight . For example when I fly the Warrior I make sure to note PA-28-161 and the Archer I fly is noted as PA-28-181 when I record hours this way I can note time in type at a detailed level . For what its worth with the PA-28 airframe it seems that some places to allow you to fly the lower rated planes if you are checked out in the higher power ones . The same basic frame was built in a 140 , 160 , 180 and 235HP variant over the years and has little differences aside from useful load and V speeds . For example at the place I go if you are checked out in the Archer first you are allowed to fly the Warrior with out a checkout . This will also extend to ownership should that be the path you go down . In that case you insurance company may require a certain amount of hours of time in type before you are allowed to solo your plane . Keeping that in mind you are not actually prevented from buying the plane and will be insured under the stipulation that the first hours in the plane are with an instructor . When a buddy of mine ( instrument rated and close to 600 hours at the time ) upgraded from his 72 Archer to a 95 Saratoga HP his insurance company mandated he do 25 hours in type with an instructor before taking the plane solo . The first 25 hours he flew his plane were with an instructor ( this included transporting the plane from the factory in Vero Beach to his home field ) . You can legally fly both planes once you have your PPL . What someone will let you fly should be pretty well addressed above . Neither the 172 or 152 requires a specific type rating like larger planes do .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
When instructed to report something . ATC : Cimber 626 turn left heading 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , report established Pilot : Heading left 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , WILCO , Cimber 626 ATC : OYABC airborne time 33 , report passing Dalhem Pilot ; ( Roger ) , WILCO , OYABC ATC : Lufthansa 135 , traffic is a Boeing 737 on 5 miles final for runway 09 , report in sight Pilot : WILCO , Lufthansa 135
Many of these are Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics ( RTCA ) standards . You can get these documents from the <URL> . They are provided free of charge to RTCA members , non-members have to pay . Alternatively you can acquire the European equivalents from EUROCAE ( RTCA DO-178B is <URL> in the <URL> ) . If you want to be up-to-date ( for example if you 're building a new avionics system ) , you should buy the latest version of the standard , such as <URL> / <URL> , which is the latest edition of your example above ( published in 2012 ) .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
Here 's a list of official FAA weather information sources that pilots can analyze to avoid or mitigate icing risks : AIRMET Zulu An AIRMET Zulu will be issued for areas where icing conditions are forecast to be light or moderate . SIGMET A SIGMET will be issued for icing conditions forecast to be severe . PIREPs PIREPs are the best source of icing information . Unlike weather information sources which are forecasts , PIREPs are reports from pilots flying in the actual conditions and should be considered the most accurate source of icing information . Here 's an example of a PIREP where a pilot of a TBM-700 was descending into Atlanta . He reported a cloud layer topping at 7900 feet down to 500 feet AGL and picking up light rime ice between 7900 and 5000 feet . Significant Weather Prognostic Charts The top two panes of a prog chart help pilots visualize the freezing level . A zig zag line shows when freezing level is at the surface and height contours for the highest freezing level are drawn at 4000 foot intervals with dashed lines . This information gives pilots a forecast of temperatures which when combined with known precipitation can predict ice and help to avoid it . Area Forecast ( FA ) An FA is an additional source of information about where cloud tops and bottoms are . If you know that along with the freezing level you can get a better idea of where icing conditions are most likely .
Severe convection will have anvil tops at the tropopause and overshooting tops can penetrate much higher ( severe thunderstorm warnings often use a value of 60,000 ft for threats to aircraft ) . How high the overshooting tops can get is a balance of the positive buoyancy during parcel ascent against the negative buoyancy once it gets into the warming stratospheric air . A U2 could overfly these storms , but most aircraft are not designed for stratospheric flight ( due to the temperature increasing with height in the stratosphere ) and any commercial aircraft will be unable to go over these storms .
Under the US FARs ( at least part 91 ) nothing special is required to take off in CAT IIIb weather besides an operational ( and IFR-legal ) aircraft and pilot . As mentioned elsewhere you can legally make that Zero/Zero takeoff where you ca n't even see the runway under your nose . It should go without saying that doing so would be incredibly stupid <URL> , but from a technical standpoint there 's nothing preventing the operation except the knowledge that you might run off the side of the runway into a ditch and bang up your aircraft and passengers . In terms of what would be required to make the takeoff safely , without running off the side of the runway into a ditch , I 'd posit that you would need the same capabilities as you 'd need to make the CAT IIIb landing safely : Aircraft systems that let you reliably track down the centerline for takeoff ( using the ILS or something of equivalent accuracy for guidance , and runway centerline lights ) . You would also need a reliable way to get from the gate to the runway , so taxiway centerline lights &amp; stop bar lights are a must , and probably <URL> or its functional equivalent with a controller monitoring it to help ensure you do n't taxi into another aircraft . All of the above is predicated on , among other things , being able to see the lights I mentioned . The <URL> mentioned elsewhere adds synthetic vision into the mix which further enhances safety ( and in the airline world allows takeoffs down to 300ft RVR ) . From what I can glean from the Rockwell-Collins marketing material their HGS seems to be able to provide " follow the green dots " taxi guidance ( and presumably runway centerline guidance for the takeoff roll as well ) , providing redundancy for the lights I described above to help the pilot ensure the aircraft is going where they want it to .
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
end question
start question
How were pilots selected and trained before the introduction of simulators ?
Almost every pilot learns to fly in an actual aircraft , this is one of the reasons all trainers have dual controls . <URL> My first day out , ever , was in an actual plane , behind real controls , in the sky . No sim-time prior to that . The instructor talked me though takeoff and maneuvers ( keeping an eye on everything and operating the rudder ) . All he did was radio coms , navigation and the approach/landing . As for whats common : The vast majority of American WWII pilots are said to have learned to fly in the <URL> <URL> <URL> In GA where everyone else gets their start the <URL> and <URL> or <URL> rule supreme . Of course these planes are slow , benign and fairly safe by aviation standards . But what if you have some super fast , one of a kind , high flying , awesome supersonic jet gadget . You surely cant afford to ruin such a plane but still need to train pilots . Well in that case you just <URL> ... <URL> <URL> designed to mimic its approach characteristics . <URL>
They do this for the same reason they make you <URL> during that period of flight . The first minutes of a flight ( take off and climb out ) as well as the last few ( approach and landing ) are the most critical and statistically the time that if things are going wrong they will go wrong . As such airlines shut down the IFE systems and ask users to shut down personal devices so that they can hear , and more importantly respond to any emergency directions that may be given during this critical time .
Crew members each have their own approach to this but in general on the long haul routes , as a pilot you have at least 24h layover , so you can catchup on some sleep , walk outside for a bit ( depending on the local time ) and then sleep some more so you 're fit for the next flight back home . At home you have a couple of days off to recover from the trip . On the very long flights 13h + the pilots are with at least 4 so you can do a quick nap on board as well . As a passenger I cope with the jetlag by looking at the arrival time , do I arrive in the morning I will try to sleep on the plane , will I arrive in the afternoon the I will try to stay awake and go to bed early . By doing so I wake up easily next morning and do not feel jetlagged .
When I went through USAF pilot training ... Useful ? Absolutely invaluable . Many of our instructors had experience before " real " simulators were used in training . All of them commented on how obviously better we were on our very first actual flight . We had " cockpit familiarization " trainers . This looked like a cockpit , sat still on the floor , had all the switches but all they did was switch . They did nothing . We practiced " switchology " , checklists , and so forth . Beyond required time and tasks in this thing we could spend free time playing around with these . Not unlike checking out a book from the library . The above are very useful because it kept the " real " simulators available for actual flight training . We had quite a few hours in this simulator before we got in a real airplane . And simulator training continued throughout the year in flight school . But this does not give them the physical feel of controlling the airplane Yes it does . But as we got more expert in the aircraft , flying every day , sometimes twice a day , we could tell the difference . But the simulator feel was quite good and in no way did it hinder acquiring the touch for precision , when in formation for example .
No , simulators can not realistically simulate turbulence . Turbulence is characterized by significant changes in altitude that happen very quickly , and even full motion simulators are n't going to be able to re-create that . They can bump you around a bit , but not really prepare you for the real thing .
The size of the bomber formations ( bombers streams ) varied significantly depending on the number of bombers , the time , location and other things . The most common figure quoted figure is around 70 miles long and 5-6 miles wide ( for ~ 500-600 bombers ) . However , the formation 's footprint depended on a number of factors ranging from the navigator 's skill to the wind in that area . The figures vary wildly . For example , from the book <URL> : The stream of more than one thousand Eighth Air Force bombers , from one end to another was 360 miles long . ... on ... February 3 , 1945 , when the first flying fortresses reached Berlin , the last bomber was over the Zuiderzee in Holland . This extreme length is a consequence of the situation late in the war , where allied air armada roamed European skies without bothering much about the Luftwaffe . The time spent over the target , on the other hand was quite small - ... each Fortress crew would spend only between thirty and sixty seconds over the center of Berlin itself ... Note that there was no such thing as precision bombing in WWII ( except for some special cases ) , though the accuracy did improve over the war . Of course , some of this was due to the way the ' target ' was designated - anywhere 1000 ' of the aiming point was good enough . From <URL> : Conventionally the air forces designated as " the target area " a circle having a radius of 1000 feet around the aiming point of attack . While accuracy improved during the war , Survey studies show that , in the over-all , only about 20 % of the bombs aimed at precision targets fell within this target area . A peak accuracy of 70 % was reached for the month of February 1945 . Accuracy of RAF night bombing improved from ~ 20 % in 1942 to > 90 % in 1945 . Of course , the British target was comparatively larger - anything within a 3 miles radius of the aiming point was a ' hit ' .
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
No real reason other than it keeps people from bugging the flight attendants by asking " how high are we ?? " . It also lets the flight attendants know that the aircraft is at cruise so wo n't be climbing and making the carts harder for them to push around .
There is a chance you suffer from <URL> but you should consult a physician to obtain a proper diagnosis ( Disclaimer : I am NOT a doctor ) . For what its worth commercial planes are pressurized generally to about the <URL> this equates to about .75 Atm . In the reverse case 33ft underwater already has you at 2 Atm . When I fly ( generally unpressurized ) I usually chew gum which i find helps .
There are 7 modes of warning Mode 1 . Large descent rate near terrain . Gear and flap position not a factor in the warning . Mode 2 . Large closure rate with terrain . Mode 2A . Occurs for a large closure rate if the flaps are not in the landing configuration and glideslope deviation is more than 2 dots . Mode 2B . Alerts for a large closure rate if the flaps are in the landing configuration . Mode 3 . Alerts for a large altitude loss during takeoff or during a missed approach with the flaps not in the landing configuration or landing gear not down . Mode 4 . Alerts when the airplane is too close to the terrain and the landing gear or flaps are not in the landing configuration Mode 4A alert when the landing gear is not down and gives the aural messages TOO LOW GEAR at low airspeeds , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 4B alerts when the landing gear is down and the flaps are not in landing configuration and gives the aural messages TOO LOW FLAPS if the airplane is at low airspeed , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 5 alerts when the airplane goes below the glideslope during approach if the landing gear is down . Mode 6 gives aural callouts when the airplane descends through set altitudes with the landing gear down . It gives callouts like MINIMUMS or DECISION HEIGHT . Mode 7 gives windshear warnings . Every one of these modes is altitude , speed and aircraft configuration dependent . In the Enhanced GPWS , these triggers are also changed based on the position of the aircraft . Regulatory requirement <URL> Technical requirements <URL>
The Concorde was first used for observing solar eclipse in 1973 . The aircraft used was Concorde 001 , piloted by André Turcat with a scientific team of 8 people from US , UK and France . The main reason for using Concorde was that the eclipse can be observed above the clouds for far longer than on ground by literally ' chasing the moon ' . Multiple instruments were used for observing the eclipse . Institut Astrophysique de Paris used cameras to capture images of the eclipse using a telescope mounted on anti-vibration mounts , which looked out of the aircraft through one of five silica quartz windows installed in the Concorde 's roof . The equipment is shown in the image below : <URL> Source : xjubier.free.fr Queen Mary College 's InSb Far-Infrared Detector experiment consisted of an interferometer that used a tracking mirror to view the solar eclipse via a quartz window fitted into the roof of the cabin , as shown in this image . <URL> Source : jcgl.orpheusweb.co.uk The dark opening in the roof holds the quartz window of the cabin , which looks like this : <URL> Source : xjubier.free.fr This was the most important ( structural ) modification made in the Concorde ( BAC was supposed to provide Concorde 002 for this flight , but they backed out when they realized that some holes were to be made in the roof ) . Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory ( LASL , later to become Los Alamos National Laboratory ) used a specially-designed 3-inch telescope which looked out of the aircraft through a silica quartz windows installed in the Concorde 's roof . One objective of the research was to look for oscillations in the sun 's corona that occurred on a time scale of about five minutes ( the eclipse was visible for ~ 74 minutes from Concorde ) . The instruments were checked both in ground and air before the experiment . Before installation of the instruments on the aircraft , they were tested on a low speed trolley , perhaps to check its sensitivity to movement . After the ground test , they were installed on the aircraft and connected to the aircraft power system and checked . Before the actual experiment , the aircraft were flight tested at supersonic speed with the instruments on board . The Concorde was chartered for viewing Halley 's Comet in 1986 and for viewing solar eclipse in 1999 . These were chartered sightseeing flights ( using unmodified aircraft ) , not scientific ones .
Yes , there has : <URL> The war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in the history of warfare , with Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras on numerous occasions . The first instance of these helicopter " dogfights " occurred on the first day of the war ( 22 September 1980 ) : two Iranian SeaCobras crept up on two Mi-25s and hit them with TOW wire-guided anti-tank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians won a similar air battle on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses themselves . According to unclassified documents , Iranian pilots achieved a 10-to-1 kill ratio over the Iraqi helicopter pilots during these engagements and even engaged Iraqi fixed-wing aircraft . These would be pretty loosely classified as a " dogfight " since the Iranian AH-1J 's " crept up " on the Mi-25 's . It is doubtful that the Mi 's did any kind of evasive maneuvering or that the AH 's did any kind of aggressive pursuits , but it is air-to-air combat between helicopters . The page from the <URL> gives a little more detailed report : This war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in history with the Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras ( supplied by the United States before the Iranian Revolution ) on several separate occasions . In November 1980 , not long after Iraq 's initial invasion of Iran , two Iranian SeaCobras engaged two Mi-25s with TOW wire-guided antitank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians repeated this accomplishment on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses to themselves . One Mi-25 was also downed by an IRIAF F-14A . The Iraqis hit back , claiming the destruction of a SeaCobra on 14 September 1983 ( with YaKB machine gun ) , then three SeaCobras on 5 February 1984 and three more on 25 February 1984 ( two with Falanga missiles , one with S-5 rockets ) . After a lull in helicopter losses , each side lost a gunship on 13 February 1986 . Later , a Mi-25 claimed a SeaCobra shot down with YaKB gun on 16 February , and a SeaCobra claimed a Mi-25 shot down with rockets on 18 February . The last engagement between the two types was on 22 May 1986 , when Mi-25s shot down a SeaCobra . The final claim tally was 10 SeaCobras and 6 Mi-25s destroyed . The relatively small numbers and the inevitable disputes over actual kill numbers makes it unclear if one gunship had a real technical superiority over the other . Iraqi Mi-25s also claimed 43 kills against other Iranian helicopters , such as Agusta-Bell UH-1 Hueys . I do n't believe there has been any recorded instance since the Iran-Iraq war , but during that conflict there were multiple instances of helicopter-vs-helicopter battles .
Why ca n't they jump from it when the plane almost reaches the ground ? They would have higher chances of surviving , right ? Wrong . Remember your body still has roughly the same momentum it did when it was in the vehicle - just because you jumped out does n't mean you 're not still moving forward at a rate of speed the human body simply is n't designed for . Let 's reframe your question : If you were in a car doing 60 miles per hour and you knew the car was about to crash into a brick wall , would you jump from the vehicle , or would you remain strapped into your seat where the car , seat , seatbelt , and airbag will all help absorb the impact ? As with a car , being inside an aircraft and properly restrained will afford you substantial protection from the initial impact , and some of the crash energy will be absorbed damaging the aircraft . That increases the length of time it takes to decelerate your body and gives you a better chance of survival . If you jumped out of your friend 's Cessna because it 's going down and might hit some trees your unrestrained body would be decelerated far more abruptly when you hit the trees ( or the ground ) . You might survive , but you 've lessened your chances considerably ( and the Cessna is a best-case scenario - your forward speed would be around 60mph as in the car example . For something like a 747 you 'd be in the 150 mile-per-hour range or faster when you jumped out , which is almost certainly not survivable ) .
The value + / -40 ° is correct , but need to be interpreted . The primary reason of the existence of a " silence " cone is a design choice to increase navaid range . Range and " <URL> " are antagonistic . For the D-VOR there is a second reason : The lack of Doppler effect around the VOR zenith . Detailed case : D-VOR A VOR radiates a signal that can be interpreted in the horizontal plane , so the system is designed with antennas radiating horizontally . There are two types of VOR , the most modern is the D-VOR ( Doppler VOR ) . A common antenna for D-VOR is the Alford loop antenna which is horizontally polarized : <URL> <URL> Left : <URL> , right : <URL> The D-VOR antenna system consists of a circular array of antennas : <URL> <URL> This array has a radiation pattern similar to this in the vertical plane : <URL> How to interpret : The straight lines are elevation angles , 90 ° being the zenith . The brown circles are a scale for power radiated , the large circle is the power measured in the direction where it is maximum . The next circle is where power is only -3 dB of the maximum . Using decibels to measure ratios is frequent when working with radio signals because this is a logarithmic scale . -3 dB is half the power , -6 dB is 1/4 of the power , etc. . The red curve is the radiation power curve of the VOR for any vertical angle . It is maximum around 30 ° and minimum at 90 ° . For 60 ° its about -20 dB which is a ratio of 1/100th only . VOR cone of silence/confusion is where the signal is too small to be correctly interpreted by the VOR receiver , and you can see there is a strong signal fall around 50 ° -60 ° ( that is 30 ° -40 ° from the VOR zenith ) As visible , power is mostly radiated to one side , the other side of the antenna array radiates only a parasitic power . This is due to the way the D-VOR works : Interfering pattern between all the antennas of the array . Power is destructed on the right side of the diagram , while it is cumulated on the left side . The interfering pattern is rotated electronically around the vertical axis at 30 rounds per second ( 1,800 RPM , 30 Hz ) , so the antenna actually radiates power in an annular volume ( donut ) . Doppler cone of confusion Specific to the D-VOR , due to the way this VOR works : In the conventional VOR relative bearing is obtained by sensing the phase difference between a reference modulation ( FM ) and a varying modulation ( AM ) which depends on the direction the VOR antenna is currently pointing to . In the Doppler VOR , the varying signal is actually obtained by electronically moving the center of the antenna array . This creates a frequency shift that is equivalent to the AM modulation of the C-VOR , but in frequency ( and the D-VOR electronically " rotates " in the other direction so that the inversion between AM and FM modulation is not visible , ensuring compliance between C-VOR and D-VOR with the receiver ) . However the Doppler effect can be sensed only when the receiver is on the same plane than the electronic " displacement " , i.e. the horizontal plane . When the receiver is located too close to the VOR zenith , the frequency shift becomes small , and can not be sensed correctly . This is why , even with an isotropic antenna , the system can not work at high relative elevations . So there is actually no point to have an isotropic antenna for the D-VOR . C-VOR and NDB A conventional VOR ( C-VOR ) works with a vertical antenna which radiation pattern is naturally similar to the one above without the need for interferences . The antenna actually rotates physically . NDB use <URL> of many kinds . The power is radiated with nearly no particular preference ( omnidirectional antenna ) , but the radiation pattern is still similar to the C-VOR one , except that there is no need to rotate it . The donut volume is obtained with the antenna stationary . As the NDB is omnidirectional , the energy in the horizontal plane is not focused as strongly as for the C-VOR and D-VOR . However NDB range is still reasonable because : NDB uses the LF/MF portions of the radio spectrum which are less subject to propagation losses . NDB receiver does n't require a strong signal to locate the beacon , as simply detecting the carrier is in theory sufficient . Why is that done this way ? You may ask why not using an antenna ( or an antenna array ) with a circular radiating pattern radiating the same power in any vertical direction . Such " isotropic " antennas exist in practical . The reason is the same than for rotating the antenna : It 's to concentrate power in one direction , to increase the range . In technical terms this is to increase the effective isotropic radiated power ( <URL> ) . A good similarity is the one of a light bulb and a torchlight : A light bulb has an omnidirectional radiating pattern , it lights up in all directions , but the power received at a distant point is limited ( unless the light bulb is a very powerful one ) . A torchlight focuses light in a small solid angle , multiplying by a large factor the intensity in the privileged direction .
At a large airport , all aircraft movements are coordinated by the ATC tower on the ground frequency . Aircraft should never move without authorization from the controller . The tower will issue instructions to aircraft that might look something like this : Taxi to Gate 1 via Alpha , Alpha 1 , Lima 3 , cross runway 24 , hold short Delta . These names correspond to markings on the ground that match up with the airport taxiing maps . By talking with the pilots , the controllers are able to build up a map of where aircraft are . It also helps that they can look out the window and see the aircraft on the ground . At airports without a tower , taxiing is n't much of an issue . There are n't many planes around , and there 's generally only one runway and not many taxiways . Nevertheless , aircraft taxiing when there is no ground controller comply with " see and be seen " by looking outside and turning on aircraft lights . Furthermore , if the aircraft has a radio , it should self-announce its movements on the ground .
The manufacturer will publish a checklist . Some airlines will choose to use the manufacturer 's checklist verbatim , while others will adapt it to their specific operation based on things like safety reporting data from their fleet . The end result will need to be approved by the regulating authority ( in the US , the FAA -- specifically the Certificate Management Office or CMO for that airline ) before it 's used by crews . An example of how an airline might modify the checklist would be to adapt it in light of new Human Factors research . Telling crews to " run this checklist " during some large interval of time ( say , between leaving the gate and reaching the runway , or between leaving cruise altitude and starting the approach ) can lead to a missed checklist , and research recommends " anchoring " the checklist to some cue that 's unlikely to be missed . So , " run THIS checklist before you release brakes and start to taxi , and THIS checklist when you have about 2000 ' left to taxi before reaching the end of the runway , and THESE 3 items as you take the runway for departure " gives crews anchor points that they 'll observe anyway and leave them less likely to look back and wonder " did we read the Before Takeoff checklist ? " The manufacturer might have made it all one long 15-item checklist that they have crews read " whenever , " but the airline could separate out the items that are best accomplished before starting to taxi ( knowing that the more items you put here , the longer the delay before the aircraft starts moving ) , the items that can be accomplished while taxiing ( probably not stuff that requires a lot of ' heads down ' time like reviewing the FMC routing ) , and the items that should be delayed until immediately before departure ( strobes lights , landing lights , radar etc ) .
The pitot-static system ( and the airspeed indicator ) does n't care about the speed of the aircraft with respect to the ground . It is concerned only with the speed of air with respect to the aircraft ( that is why it is called airspeed and not groundspeed indicator ) . So , if your aircraft is on ground and experiences a headwind of 60 kt , the airspeed indicator will show an airspeed of 60 kt , in an ideal case . This is important because the wing generates lift depending on the airspeed , not the ground speed ( forgetting about stuff like ground effect , etc. ) . This means that if an aircraft is parked on the ground and there is a headwind of sufficient velocity , it will try to lift the aircraft up .
My answer may not directly answer your question but from <URL> , I extract data for year 2014 and put in table as follow : note that total number of crew does not add up with each type of crew in the table Hope it gives you some idea about the ratio of pilot and flight attendant
While I 'm not a pilot , I think it goes along these lines : Airlines typically assume a value for passengers depending on gender and age . This distribution in the cabin will typically be quite random and a little variation does not do any damage . Baggage however is weighed on the scales at check in . Each bag is normally scanned as it is passed onto the plane , so that they know where is bag is located . The values are then passed onto the pilots who are able to work out that the numbers are ok . Sometimes there are preferences to load up bags in a certain way for fuel issues , so this is very important to make sure this is still resonable . These values are then plugged into computers or worked out manually on a paper loadsheet to make sure they are good and within limits . In fact the weight systems you are referring to are quite unusual I think , see <URL> .
Emergency descent ( like during a decompression event where you need to get from cruise to 10k ft ASAP to make sure the people in the back survive ) should n't make a nice curve . It only wastes time you do n't really have . Normal operation means the pilot activates the autopilot during cruise which will fly the programmed course set by the pilot . It will stay follow that course ( or put itself in a holding pattern on the final fix ) until it runs out of fuel or the pilot intervenes when it is cleared for descent . This happened with <URL> ; both pilots were incapacitated shortly after ascent and the plane put itself in a hold and crashed when it ran out of fuel after more than an hour . A plane where there is nothing controlling the altitude ( when control is lost due to loss of hydraulics for example ) will follow a <URL> . That is a series of dives and climbs as the elevators gain and lose bite on the air with speed .
end question
start question
Why/How does a " Powerflow " exhaust increase horsepower ?
It has to do with resonance . Think of a pipe organ - each pipe resonates at a certain frequency , which we hear as a note or tone . The length of the pipe determines its note/tone/resonance frequency . Your plane 's exhaust system has a certain resonance frequency . Your plane 's engine has a certain note or tone , too . That is largely determined by engine RPM . A powerflow exhaust matches the exhaust resonance frequency with the engine 's rpm at a typical high cruise setting . On a micro level , here is what happens . After a cylinder 's power stroke , when the exhaust valve first opens , exhaust floods out into the exhaust system . Soon the exhaust valve shuts and the inertia of the gasses moving down the exhaust system cause the exhaust gas to continue towards the exit , creating a lower pressure behind it ( near the exhaust valve ) . If the resonance frequency of the exhaust system matches the rpm , at that point the exhaust valve opens on the next cycle , and the lower pressure area in the exhaust assists in scavenging the exhaust out of the cylinder . On the subsequent intake stroke , there is less residual pressure in the cylinder and it can " suck in " more fuel/air mixture . More fuel/air , more power . Another way to say this is that it takes power for the engine to force the exhaust out of the cylinder and through the exhaust system . The Powerflow system reduces the power required to do this .
It has to do with resonance . Think of a pipe organ - each pipe resonates at a certain frequency , which we hear as a note or tone . The length of the pipe determines its note/tone/resonance frequency . Your plane 's exhaust system has a certain resonance frequency . Your plane 's engine has a certain note or tone , too . That is largely determined by engine RPM . A powerflow exhaust matches the exhaust resonance frequency with the engine 's rpm at a typical high cruise setting . On a micro level , here is what happens . After a cylinder 's power stroke , when the exhaust valve first opens , exhaust floods out into the exhaust system . Soon the exhaust valve shuts and the inertia of the gasses moving down the exhaust system cause the exhaust gas to continue towards the exit , creating a lower pressure behind it ( near the exhaust valve ) . If the resonance frequency of the exhaust system matches the rpm , at that point the exhaust valve opens on the next cycle , and the lower pressure area in the exhaust assists in scavenging the exhaust out of the cylinder . On the subsequent intake stroke , there is less residual pressure in the cylinder and it can " suck in " more fuel/air mixture . More fuel/air , more power . Another way to say this is that it takes power for the engine to force the exhaust out of the cylinder and through the exhaust system . The Powerflow system reduces the power required to do this .
end question
start question
What are the ways to perform air traffic control on long distance flights ?
Direct link vs satellite There are three major ways of sending control messages to an aircraft : Direct radio link [ when ] in line of sight , satellite , ground stations , e.g. , tracon . The way the question starts brings confusion so the many comments . There are two categories of radio links involved in voice/data communication : Between a ground station and the aircraft and via a relay , e.g. a satellite . Satellites are merely used today for air traffic control , it 's a thing of the future ( 2 to 3 years for tracking the aircraft using <URL> ) . However satellites are sometimes used for aircraft communication with the airline technical staff and/or the manufacturers . However the information exchanged here is not ATC related at all : It can be technical , e.g. live <URL> sent to airline technical staff or to the engine manufacturer , to prepare maintenance at the destination airport . It can also be internal exchange with the airline operations . Satellite communication is also used for passenger services like telephone and Internet access aboard the aircraft . So ATC uses the other kind of links , the direct ones , which means a transmitter on the ground . However these " ground stations " can serve different purposes because ATC is organized so that ATC facilities are specialized . Simple ATC organization There are ATCOs on the site who may add details to this answer , but I 'll draw the mainlines . In the US , ATC operational facilities are divided into 4 categories : ATC Tower . Controllers are located in the airfield tower and they control aircraft on the ground ( e.g. at their gates , or on the taxiways ) , aircraft on the runways ( landing or taking off ) , aircraft approaching the airfield to land , aircraft leaving the airfield and climbing to their cruise altitude . The tower controllers have a good sight on all those aircraft . Tracon ( terminal radar approach control ) . Controllers maybe located in the tower or at other locations . They are in charge of taking over the aircraft that just took off and are now departing . They continue the control that was started by their colleagues of the Tower . They also take care of the descending aircraft before they are handed over to their colleagues of the Tower for landing . As you see , tracon actually takes aircraft from cruise altitude to near the landing runway , and from near the takeoff runway to cruise altitude . Next , there is the enroute ATC center for controlling aircraft in cruise , between the departing tracon and the arrival tracon . This facility is also known as air route traffic control center ( ARTCC ) . The enroute controllers can be located anywhere , they do n't need to see the sky , and usually they do n't see it at all , they work in a dark room using only displays and microphones . There are a <URL> to control the whole US airspace . This split is shown on this figure : <URL> that is extracted from <URL> . The last type of ATC facility is the oceanic ATC which controls an ocean area , because the procedures and tools used are a bit particular . Oceans are not belonging to a particular country , however all countries have agreed to delegate the control to a particular country for a particular area . In the US , for the East coast , New-York oceanic center will control an area , Canada will control another , UK and France will manage the other side of the pond . These centers control areas named OCA , for oceanic control area . See <URL> for North Atlantic . When the aircraft progress along its route , it is handed over to the next area controller . This was the first part : We have clarified who are the controllers and ATC facilities , where they are and what phase of flight they control . Now let 's see the radio equipment they use . Radio links First let 's clarify between radio and radar . Radar is used to determine the position of the aircraft . This can be done everywhere , except over oceans . The reason is radar has a limited range , and there are no radar stations in the ocean ( at least not for civil aviation ) . Radar stations are located at selected locations , on hills and other high places , to increase their range . some radar are located on airfields too , but that 's not a requirement . Actually , all information collected by all radar stations are gathered and distributed to all control centers as a synthetic picture . Radio is used to exchange voice messages and data . As I wrote , all radio links have a ground station at the center . This ground station is usually at the same location than the controllers . So some ATC radio equipment is at the airfield , some at the enroute centers , etc. . For OCA , the equipment can be remote from the controllers , but this is just a technical detail . Aviation radio for ATC messages can use two types of frequencies : VHF ( very high frequency ) which works mostly in line of sight , so the range is something around 50 km to 200 km depending on propagation conditions and location . VHF is used when the aircraft is flying over lands . Controllers at the towe
The FAA has an <URL> on bird strikes and other wildlife hazards , which includes a ( broken ) link to their Wildlife Hazard Management at Airports - A Manual for Airport Personnel <URL> . Chapter 9 is called " WILDLIFE CONTROL STRATEGIES AND TECHNIQUES AT AIRPORTS " and includes the following techniques : Change flight schedules Modify the birds ' habitat ( food , cover , water ) Physically exclude the animals ( not so easy with birds ) Repel the birds with vehicles , chemicals , sound , visual objects ( flags , scarecrows , fake dead animals , lasers ) Repel the birds with trained falcons or dogs Shoot nonlethal projectiles at the birds Trap , remove and release the birds at a different location Kill the birds with poison or other means The document summarizes the various techniques like this : Habitat modifications to minimize food , cover , and water and physical barriers to exclude wildlife are the foundations of wildlife hazard management programs for airports . In addition , an integrated array of repellent techniques is necessary to disrupt normal behavior and to stress hazardous wildlife that attempt to use the airport . These repellent techniques must be used judiciously and backed by real threats to minimize habituation . To this end , lethal control of selected individuals of common species is sometimes necessary to reinforce repellent actions .
The control problems are caused by a shift of the aerodynamic forces . In subsonic flight , they are mostly created in the forward part of the wing ( the lift increase with angle of attack works at the quarter chord point of a wing , regardless of sweep ) , while in supersonic flow they work equally over the full chord . The center of lift in pure supersonic flow is at mid chord , and in reality the aerodynamic center shifts slowly back when the aircraft accelerates through Mach 1 and more of the surface is exposed to supersonic flow . Since the c.g. position is mostly fixed ( Concorde pumped fuel between tanks to shift the c.g. ) , this shift must be compensated with elevator deflection . The elevator must move trailing edge up , which creates a break in the airfoil contour , which in turn creates a heavy shockwave at high subsonic and supersonic flight speed . This shock causes flow separation and can lead to elevator reversal . Only when the fixed part of the horizontal tail can be moved , too , or you have a full-flying tail ( the whole stabilizer is moved , not only the rear part of it ) to create the needed lift change without a contour break , the aircraft can be trimmed for both subsonic and supersonic speed . The benefit of the X-1 was a stabilizer with variable incidence , which the P-51 lacked . Sweep would have helped , too , but was not really necessary .
You did n't specify the jurisdiction that you were asking about , but in the US there is a regulation that covers the minimum that you must do before flying . Much of it is common sense : You want to check the weather , because it can impact you much more than it usually does in your car and you do n't want to get stuck in a really bad situation . You want to check the Notices to Airmen ( NOTAMs ) to make sure that you can use the airport ( i.e. it is n't closed , or the runway is n't closed , etc. ) You want to make sure that you have enough fuel , because you ca n't just pull over at the nearest gas station when you get low . You want to make sure that the runways are long enough and that the airplane can climb well enough so that you do n't crash into something . That being said , if you are familiar with the area and the airports in the area , you have used them before and are already familiar with the performance numbers for your airplane , then you do n't really need to do much more than check the weather/NOTAMs and make sure that your airplane is legal and safe to fly . Things are a little different than back in the barnstorming days , but then there are fewer accidents too . :-) <URL> Each pilot in command shall , before beginning a flight , become familiar with all available information concerning that flight . This information must include -- ( a ) For a flight under IFR or a flight not in the vicinity of an airport , weather reports and forecasts , fuel requirements , alternatives available if the planned flight can not be completed , and any known traffic delays of which the pilot in command has been advised by ATC ; ( b ) For any flight , runway lengths at airports of intended use , and the following takeoff and landing distance information : ( 1 ) For civil aircraft for which an approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required , the takeoff and landing distance data contained therein ; and ( 2 ) For civil aircraft other than those specified in paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this section , other reliable information appropriate to the aircraft , relating to aircraft performance under expected values of airport elevation and runway slope , aircraft gross weight , and wind and temperature .
Very very uncommon . Goose Bay , Canada , is a diversion airport for US-Europe flights . If you search <URL> for " goose " , you will find about 2 to 3 flights divert there each year . 3 flights diverted in 2017 : Delta A330 Oct 20 , engine problem SAS A340 April 16 , low cabin pressure Air France A380 Sep 30 , engine structural failure 2 flights diverted in 2016 : Virgin B787 Nov 22 , engine oil leak United B767 Sep 15 , generator/APU failure 3 flights diverted in 2015 : American B757 Sep 30 , electrical problem Delta B767 July 31 , generator failure United B767 June 12 , flight controls 2 flights diverted in 2014 : Delta B767 Aug 9 , engine problem Delta B767 May 1 , engine shut down In all these incidents except for 2 , the report in Aviation Herald states a replacement aircraft was required . Sometimes the delay was 6 hours , sometimes the next day . In the 2 other incidents , it 's unclear if a replacement aircraft was required or not , but in both cases maintenance was required , so at least a delay occurred . This compares with a bird strike , or fumes/smoke in the cabin , almost daily somewhere . It 's much rare than even lightning strikes , of which 25 were reported in 2017 .
Long story short is that both Newton 's third law and the Bernoulli 's effect are two different ways of explaining the same phenomena . Accurate equations have been written to explain both . Newton 's third law , the air being forced down and forcing the airplane up , is actually the effect of lift though not the cause . The cause of lift is the change in pressure . The falsehood that is taught is usually that the two little air particles actually meet up at the same point downstream at the trailing edge of the wing at the same time . This is completely false . In fact , if you were to actually track two air particles , one over the top , and one across the bottom , the one going over the top of the wing will probably arrive much sooner than the one on the bottom ! [ Even though the distance IS longer ] It picks up that much speed . Also they do n't actually really meetup again afterwards at all . The real pivotal relation ( which I learned in my Advanced Aerodynamics class at ERAU using John . D. Anderson 's book <URL> ) is the Kutta-Joukowsky theorem . Taking the time to explain this to a Private Pilot student would probably be a waste of your time and theirs but I will sum it up here anyway to be fair to the question . I will assume incompressible flow because after about Mach .3 < it starts to get more complicated . The Kutta-Joukowsky theorem takes the integral of velocity times the cosine of the incremental angle of the distance along the closed curve . This is a quantity called circulation . The lift equation is then formed as lift equals density ( altitude basically ) times velocity times circulation . So if you really want get in-depth here is an <URL> that explains potential flow theory . What you will find is that the cause of lift is indeed directly related to Bernoulli 's principle in that the change in pressure is what creates the lift . However it has nothing to do with particles meeting up at the trailing edge because they never really do meet up . This does n't discount Newton 's third law either : lift can be explained that way but it is the effect of lift , not the actual cause . And yes , like you mentioned , even a flat-plate for example can create lift when angled right in a wind tunnel .
The metal of the tanker 's boom ( or drogue ) contacts the metal of the receiver 's receptacle ( or probe ) first , and that contact is maintained , so that would serve to ground the two aircraft to each other . It 's a good question , but I 've never heard of any fuel explosions due to static buildup during air-to-air refueling , so evidently the systems in place alleviate the risks . Aerial refueling is pretty routine these days , so in relative terms it would seem to be fairly safe . Purging the fuel lines is a relative term ; you could remove the liquid fuel from the lines , but you 'd still have vapors , and those are more flammable than the liquid jet fuel itself . Maybe somebody who flew ( or flies ) tankers can discuss how far down the boom the fuel goes BEFORE everything is connected and they start pumping ; as a receiver I just remember that the fuel flowed into the manifold and then into the tanks . We did n't do anything special to clear the manifold or fuel lines on our end . There ARE some inherent risks when refueling between two aircraft flying in close formation that are accepted ( i.e. the risk level is okay for the military mission , but nobody does it for commercial airliners ) , but I do n't think this is one of them .
In the United States , the FAA has published <URL> , which includes recommendations for parallel runway separation . In summary , " For simultaneous landings and takeoffs using VFR , the minimum separation between centerlines of parallel runways is 700 feet ( 213 m ) . " For simultaneous IFR operations , " Dual simultaneous precision instrument approaches are normally approved on parallel runway centerline separation of 4,300 feet ( 1311 m ) . On a case-by-case basis , the FAA will consider proposals utilizing separations down to a minimum of 3,000 feet ( 914 m ) where a 4,300 foot ( 1311 m ) separation is impractical . This reduction of separation requires special high update radar , monitoring equipment , etc. " Note : Simultaneous Offset Instrument Approaches allow as little as 750 ft between runway centerlines . International regulations do differ . ICAO have their own standards . <URL> of a document which prescribes airport standards compliant to ICAO Annex 14 .
I can think of a few : Any delay in the flight is a waste of valuable resources - the flight , cabin and ground crew who have to be paid and the aircraft itself , which is not generating any revenue but costing money for the airline . Also , the airline may have to pay for the time the aircraft spends in the airport . There is an economic cost associated with on-time performance - for example , passengers are more likely to take airlines which have better on-time performance over others . Another case is that of customers taking connecting flights - again , on-time performance could be the difference here . This means loss of business for the lower performing airline . For airlines operating multiple trips per day , the delay and the associated costs are cumulative ; for example , if the first flight of the day is delayed , it snowballs into the day - requires replanning for the rest of the day in other airports and causes further delays . For the airline industry , the delays cost billions of dollars every year ( <URL> and <URL> ) and can reduce the operating revenues by a few percentage points ( <URL> ) . The table below , taken from the NEXTOR report on <URL> shows the cost to US airlines due to delays . <URL> As can be seen , the the costs due to delay to airlines are quite high .
In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller ( PLC ) . As opposed to the executive controller ( EC ) , who talks to the planes , the PLC ( who will be seated right next to the EC ) handles coordination with adjacent sectors via dedicated telephone lines . There are two main parts of a transfer : the transfer of communication and the transfer of control . The transfer of communication is the actual frequency switch -- the instruction for the pilot to switch from one frequency to another . The transfer of control is the transfer of responsibility of the flight from one controller to the next . Before answering your question directly , let us establish the premises of the question . Note : this answer refers primarily to European procedures , and is largely based on <URL> In respect to your question , the transfer of control is the interesting part . Firstly , we must realise that there are two fundamentally different premises for a transfer of control . Either the transfer takes place from one position/sector to another position/sector within the same ATC unit ( for example between two area control sectors in the same area control centre ) , or the transfer takes place from one ATC unit to another ( for example when a flight crosses a state border ) . In the first case , the adjacent sector will typically already have access to information about the flight , since both sectors rely directly on the same data source . In the second case , this might not be the case . Additionally , in the first case , controllers will often be physically seated right next to each other . For units where paper flight progress strips are still used ( mainly some approach and tower units ) , this enables controllers to physically pass the flight progress strip to the next controller . In both cases , there are four required stages which lead up to a transfer of control ( refer to ICAO document 4444 , section 10.1 ) : a ) Notification of the flight in order to prepare for coordination , as necessary ; b ) Coordination of conditions of transfer of control by the transferring ATC unit ; c ) Coordination , if necessary , and acceptance of conditions of transfer of control by the accepting ATC unit ; and d ) The transfer of control to the accepting ATC unit or control sector . Doc 4444 also states that : ATC units shall forward from unit to unit , as the flight progresses , necessary flight plan and control information . Now , your question is , to what extend is this data transfer process automated . ICAO document 7030 gives us a clue to the background of the answer : When so agreed between adjacent ATC units , a computer-assisted coordination process shall be introduced to eliminate the need for verbal coordination of boundary estimates and to reduce the amount of manual data input into ATC computers . In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Silent transfer of control procedures require that traffic is predictable and sufficient system support is provided to ATCOs to ensure : - They are in possession of all elements related to the aircraft profile and - Should the agreed conditions of the transfer change , they have the means to speak to each other such that new conditions are agreed expeditiously and safely . Silent transfers are based on the exchange of flight data , which happens through connected Flight Dara Processing Systems , which make use of the OLDI protocol . The operational use of connections between Flight Data Processing Systems ( FDPSs ) at ACCs for the purpose of replacing verbal " estimates " is referred to as On-Line Data Interchange ( OLDI ) . The implementation of basic OLDI messages is mandatory in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1032/2006 . These messages are defined by the EUROCONTROL Specifications What this regulation means in practise is that , within Europe , silent transfers are used more often than not . However , you will also see units where a manual coordination prior to a transfer is required , for example flights crossing the border from certain European countries to certain non-European countries . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller
The voice communications for air traffic control is all analog ( <URL> ) . A scanner that works in that frequency range on AM should be fine . Although a switch to digital has been considered , there is just too much coordination and investment required . A good reference to find the right frequencies is <URL> . It will list all the frequencies for an airport . Another good reference for many frequencies , not just airports , is <URL> . The database there will tell you exactly how each channel is transmitted , so you know what type of radio you will need to listen to it . Also keep in mind that ATC transmissions are line-of-sight , so you will have to be close to a ground station to hear it . The " rubber duck " antenna included with a lot of scanners is fine but a better antenna will help to improve reception . Also , military aircraft use a higher frequency range , and a lot of cheaper scanners will not receive this .
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
Difficulties and costs of maintaining the lock-wiring are obvious . My intuition says it only has to be used as a last resort when no other way is available . Nevertheless any aviation junk yard says my intuition is wrong . Lock-wires are everywhere in the old gas turbine engines . My question is : Do they now use other methods of bolted joints ` safety in gas turbine engines ( jam nuts and locking washers in particular ) ? Well , maintaining safety lockwire is n't as hard as you think it is : A pair of safety wire pliers will last you a lifetime , and they do about 80 % of the work for you ( all the maintenance monkey needs to do is cut an appropriate length of wire , hook up the pliers , and twist , making sure the wire is positioned so as to always tighten the fastener ) . It is easy to inspect , repairing is simple ( just replace the damaged wire ) , and cost for a spool of wire is minimal compared to using a new self-locking nut every time something needs to be taken apart ( safety wire earns its keep for temporary assembly too : You can wire the assembly when you 're done , rather than wearing the lock material on a self-locking nut ) . Other methods of securing fasteners are used on aircraft ( in engines and elsewhere ) , including cotter pins and self-locking nuts with nylon inserts to prevent them from slipping . The cotter pin is easy to verify ( like safety wire ) , and is widely used . Self locking nuts on the other hand can slip without much visual indication ( torque seal or similar products are often used to mark the nut and fastener to give a visual indication of slip ) . A disadvantage to self locking nuts is that they must be replaced any time the fastener is removed ( reused nuts will have a lower locking resistance , <URL> ) , and using them introduces a potential for human error in maintenance operations that does not exist with safety wire , which must be cut to remove it . ( There are even folks who try to reuse cotter pins , though normally they are cut to remove them and thus can not be reused . )
Yes , cargo and passenger aircraft of the same basic model are sometimes flown differently when there is no live cargo . A friend of mine who flies cargo put it almost exactly as you did in your question when you say boxes can not complain , so he sometimes hand flies the aircraft when passenger pilots would be required to use autopilot . Cargo pilots do n't have to worry about tender stomachs in the back , so steeper climbs and descents and tighter turns are acceptable as long as the aircraft remains well within the flight envelope .
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
Yes , we can ask you to plan your landing roll in a certain way . We wo n't technically instruct you to brake the aircraft in a specific way , but simply to aim for a specific taxiway after landing . There can be different reasons for this , but generally it is an attempt to expedite traffic flow on the ground at the airport . For example , if you are landing on a long runway and your parking position is near the far end of the runway , I might ask you to keep the plane rolling down the runway and vacate at the end , in order for you to have a shorter taxi time . It could also be that the taxiway you would normally use to leave the runway is blocked by another aircraft or vehicle , and I want you to leave the runway via a taxiway that is further down the runway . However , extending the landing roll does extend the runway occupancy time as well , so if there is another aircraft behind you on short final I will not offer you to perform a long landing roll . This is also why you should always ask ATC if you are planning to perform a long landing for one reason or the other -- if we have someone else just a couple miles behind you , we might have to instruct them to go around if you do not vacate the runway like we expect you to . With regards to reverse thrust specifically , there are airports where the use of reverse thrust is only permitted in special situations . This is to reduce the noise level at and around the airport . However , this is purely a regulatory thing , and is not actually related to ATC . ICAO offers the following guidance on the subject ( DOC 4444 ) : 7.10.3.1 When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic , a landing aircraft may be requested to : a ) hold short of an intersecting runway after landing ; b ) land beyond the touchdown zone of the runway ; c ) vacate the runway at a specified exit taxiway ; d ) expedite vacating the runway . 7.10.3.2 In requesting a landing aircraft to perform a specific landing and/or roll-out manoeuvre , the type of aircraft , runway length , location of exit taxiways , reported braking action on runway and taxiway , and prevailing meteorological conditions shall be considered . A HEAVY aircraft shall not be requested to land beyond the touchdown zone of a runway .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
<URL> gives the following limitations for A318 steep approaches : Maximum authorised Flight Path Angle : -5.5 ° MLW unchanged ( 57.5 t ) FWD and AFT CG limits unchanged Maximum altitude for landing : 2000ft Tailwind limit for landing : 5Kt Crosswind limit for landing : 26Kt gust included AUTOLAND is not allowed CATII and CATIII are not allowed All engines operative only
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
Some very spot-on comments , some comments that are totally ignorant of the job . I am a retired ATC , 32 years . I worked at one of the world 's busiest and most complex US facilities ( as described by many independent sources ) . Have you ever : Heard a family on the other end of the radio screaming just moments before they were obliterated in the air by a military fighter flying VFR ? Tried in vain to find a way to contact the occupants of Payne Stewart 's jet only to watch helplessly as it finally crashes after several hours of flight ? Had 30 + airliners in your sector which happens to be dotted with Level 5 thunderstorms ? The amount of airspace you now have has decreased substantially and the aircraft all need to deviate . They all want to either go in different directions , or they all want to head towards the few clear spots left . You sit there for 2 hours directing aircraft to basically thread a needle at 500mph and pulling out every trick in your book to ensure that there is enough space to ensure all 30 + aircraft ( and more , because those aircraft never stop coming ) make it through your airspace without encountering the dangers of severe weather or coming into physical contact with another aircraft . Aircraft that are often executing movements that they do n't have clearance for , which requires quick and accurate reaction from the controller . Dealt with one of the times when a corporate jet " flames out " at 43,000 feet and immediately descends through a dozen or more jets flying the same path , requiring the controller to immediately clear all of those aircraft out of the path of that corporate jet . Had a small twin prop lose all electronics and be unable to navigate properly while in a thick cloud layer . His portable radio is not working properly , so radio communications must be short and accurate . ( Remember , you have another sector full of aircraft that you are also providing services to ) . Finally , his portable radio fail . Right before that , you ask the pilot if he has a cell phone . He does . You give him a phone number and you and he are able to communicate via telephone to finally guide him to a safe landing at Newport News Airport . I could write a book about many specific events that controllers have experienced . The " pucker factor " events . But the real stress is the long term chronic stress that the job presents . Certainly , there are facilities that are both low traffic and have uncomplicated operations . If you are lucky enough to work at one of these ( and willing to accept the low end of the pay scale ) then stress is probably much lower and stressful events infrequent . But for the majority of controllers ( who work at a number of very high traffic facilities ; air traffic in the US is higher and more complicated than the next 29 countries ' air traffic , combined ) the stress is a chronic , continuous level ( not the big adrenalin-pumping situations ) from being attached to your position for several hours , trying to maintain a constant " big picture " , maintaining situational awareness , issuing control instructions to ensure that SAFETY is always the first product of your efforts . Many , if not most , controllers will most likely retire with high blood pressure , diabetes , sleep disorders , etc. that despite best efforts to exercise and live a healthy lifestyle will probably affect a controller for the remainder of their life . Certainly , other jobs are stressful , and I would never try to compare one as " more stressful " than the other . The top ones are all stressful . But those that try to downplay the stress of air traffic control would only need to visit a busy air traffic control facility for a day and they would see and probably feel the stress themselves . I have a very good friend that is an FBI field agent in Washington , DC . He has worked on some very high-profile cases . We were talking one day and he said something about the stress of air traffic control . I chuckled saying that at least I was n't being faced by some of the most dangerous people in the country . But his response was that in his job they have detailed plans for what they do . His raids were in the middle of the night when these people were asleep and unsuspecting . He had a well-trained team that each had specific responsibilities . They had plenty of firepower and protective equipment . He said that most of his operations were quite easy and they experienced little resistance . He did have moments of intensity , but he ( who had visited an air traffic facility ) did not think the stress he experienced was anywhere near to what he saw at the air traffic control facility . But I still would not want to be a law enforcement officer , nor a school teacher for that matter ! My personality was a good match for the job of air traffic control . But now that I am retired , I take blood pressure medicine , am borderline diabetic despite a regular exercise program and am within a healthy weight and eat very healthy . I also still have sleep apnea and
end question
start question
What kinds of planes can tow banners ?
What kind of plane is good for this type of flight ? The cheap kind . Joking aside , the exact airplane to use depends on the size of the banners or billboards you 're going to be towing , but generally speaking you want something reasonably rugged , with good slow flight characteristics , sufficient engine power to be able to overcome the added drag from the banner , and , hopefully , some decent fuel consumption . I 'm not entirely kidding about the cheap part though ; banner towing is hard on the airplanes and carries a higher-than-average degree of risk , so you do want to stay away from airplanes that will be expensive to fix , if you can help it . As for specific types , I 've seen banners towed with everything from -152 s to Grumman Agcats ; a large banner tow operation apparently had a Super Cub with an O-540 bolted to it , so you 'll see a ton of different things , but tailwheels seem to be the norm , at least in the US , and many outfits will make additional modifications such as removing engine cowlings to help with cooling . With banners they appear to be flying slower than usual . Is this just an illusion ? No , they are indeed flying slower . First of all , the added drag from the banner slows the airplane down all by itself . Secondly , you 're being paid to advertise , so you want to make sure that people can read whatever sign you 're towing . You 're not flying the ragged edge of the stall ( it 's dangerous , uneconomical , and unnecessarily hard on the engine ) , but you 're probably going to be flying on the backside of the power curve . What are the practical or regulatory requirements that the plane must meet to be capable ? In addition to the practical considerations we 've talked about above , banner towing operations require a waiver from the FAA . The company has to apply for it and every pilot must be trained in banner tow operations , pass a review from an approved FAA inspector ( who will be watching you perform picks and drops from the ground ) , and be added to the waiver . The aircraft and tow hitch mechanisms also have to be inspected and approved for banner tow operations , and added to the waiver . <URL> is the current FAA Banner Tow Information handbook , covering equipment , operations , waiver information , and other assorted miscellaneous if you 're curious to learn more .
Serious discussion of removing passenger jet pilots ? No . Serious discussion of making pilotless VTOL aircraft ? Yes . <URL> Check out this quote from page 40 : To fast-forward to the safest possible operational state for VTOL vehicles , network operators will be interested in the path that realizes full autonomy as quickly as possible .
In the specific situation of a pilot who is the subject of an FAA investigation , the Pilot 's Bill of Rights requires that air traffic data ( which includes audio recordings ) be provided to the pilot . They would be expected to make the request directly to the FAA . There is a <URL> : To ensure that relevant air traffic data you are seeking from a government contractor are obtained , you should provide the following information : a. Your name and your airman certificate number ; b. other relevant information ( aircraft heading , altitude , call sign , transponder code , etc. ) that will help the contractor locate relevant data ; c. the name/location of the contractor facility that you believe has air traffic data ; d. the date and local time of day when such data relevant to the your flight operation were generated ; e. the name of the FAA inspector , investigator or other FAA official ( e.g. , an air traffic controller who advises you about a possible pilot deviation ) who notified you that you are under investigation ; f. the airman 's phone number or email The individual should provide that information to the FAA by email to the following address : AirmenDataRequest@faa.gov . The instructions include a warning about timeliness : Depending on the type of data , they will normally be stored from 5 to 45 days and then they are destroyed or discarded in the normal course of business I do n't have any information about the general case , though I imagine it depends on the facility and their workload .
Pilots are allowed to fly as close as they want to each other as long as all parties agree to it and feel safe doing so . Air Traffic Control can not guarantee separation for planes in formation flight , So this will only be done under VFR and in VMC , where pilots can maintain visual separation from each other . Many stunt fliers are civilian pilots and will routinely fly in close formation as well . Other notable example of civilian formation flight include <URL> and <URL>
Short answer The kinetic energy involved in a plane crash is inhumanely high . Slightly longer answer We can built bombs which will go through concrete roofs and ceilings of a bunker , counting the number of floors they crash through while descending so they can explode at the level where the bad guys sit and not where the widows and orphans are kept . We could equally well build a plane with this kind of strength , so the fuselage stays intact even when it crashes into a mountainside . That 's not the problem . Limits of the human body The problem will be that rescuers will only find dead bodies inside . The human body was " designed " to endure things like running into a tree , but not being hurled around at Mach 0.85 and then being stopped almost instantly . Thanks to years of research we now have quite a good idea where the limits are . Martin Eiband collected a lot of data on this , if you want to know more , google for " Eiband diagrams " . If you want the full picture , read the <URL> . It comes in five volumes , and volume 1 covers the design criteria . The Eiband diagram below is lifted from this source . Note the time scale : A deceleration with 40 g can only be tolerated for a duration of 0.1 seconds ; if the deceleration takes more than 1 second , the limit is only 10 g . Now let 's see what deceleration distance is required to stop a human with an average deceleration of 10 g . The energy $ E$ of a body of the mass $ m $ increases with the square of speed $ v $ : $ $ E = m \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = m \ cdot a \ cdot s $ $ At $ a = 98.0665 $ m/s ² , the stopping distance $ s $ from an initial speed $ v $ is $ \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot a } $ : Car crash at 30 m/s : This needs 4.6 m and good restraints , but is generally survivable . Free fall at 60 m/s terminal velocity : 18.4 m . <URL> by falling into soft ground like a snow-covered conifer forest . This is also the typical approach speed of airliners , and the 18.4 m is the fuselage ahead of you . That is the reason why a crash is <URL> for the occupants in the rear seat rows . Propeller airplane flies into mountain ( 120 m/s ) : 73.42 m . This kind of <URL> is simply not available , and nobody has survived such an impact . Airliner flies into a mountain ( 240 m/s ) : 293.7 m. To make such a crash survivable , every airliner would need to carry a 300 m boom of stiff material around which would be needed as a crumple zone in an accident . Just think what kind of aft fuselage and tail this would require . And to top it : Astronaut on a space walk collides with a satellite in an opposing orbit ( 16,000 m/s ) : 1305.23 km . Note that I had to switch units to keep the number manageable . Please consider lower deceleration limits for elderly and untrained persons ; the limit in the Eiband diagram was established using healthy young pilots ( and hogs , chimps and corpses for the higher limits . A lot of blood was spilled to arrive at these numbers ) . The problem is not the aircraft structure , it is the fact that humans like to go fast but are not built to stop quickly .
I 'm sure it 's possible to use servo motors to get precise control of the ailerons , elevators or the rudder . No , it is n't . Primary flight control actuators require both rather high forces and quick response time . Electric motors can provide either , but both at the same time is a problem . Hydraulics is still better for that combination . Note that other actuators that do n't require the fast response time ( like flaps , gear or horizontal stabilizer foreplane ( elevator trim ) ) are electric in some aircraft .
I suppose it depends on what you mean by " land " -- For our purposes I 'll define landing as putting the aircraft on the ground and decelerating to taxi speed , while meeting the other requirements of a " good landing " ( shiny side up ; rubber side down ; aircraft , pilot , and passengers in reusable condition ) . How fast can I go ? Generally you want to put the wheels on the ground at ( or at least very close to ) the aircraft 's stall speed and then decelerate to a safe taxi speed . You can certainly force the wheels onto the ground at higher speeds , but you 're still an aerial vehicle at that point and you have to bleed off the excess speed to transition to a ground ( taxiing ) vehicle before you can leave the runway . As a general rule of thumb your final approach speed should be about 1.3 times stall speed for your selected landing configuration so you can get down to taxi speed reasonably quickly . Putting that into some kind of context , a normal approach speed ( with full flaps ) in the Piper Cherokee I fly is around ~ 65 knots . A no-flaps approach is ~ 75 knots . Looking a little deeper , you can fly the approach as fast as you want ( within reason ) as long as you 're comfortable doing that and confident in your ability to bleed off the extra speed with precision . At my home field I 've been chased down final by jets often enough that I know I can maintain 85 + knots until about a half-mile final , at which point I can reliably dump the extra speed , put the wheels down in the touchdown zone , and decelerate to taxi speed in time to make a " normal " turn-off . I also know that if it seems like I will need to carry more than about 85 knots by the half-mile point I 'm better off telling ATC I 'll go around and land after the faster traffic because I may not be able to safely decelerate and turn off the runway with enough room for the traffic behind me to land . Keeping your speed up is really only helpful if you do n't botch the landing . What 's the procedure for doing this ? The procedure is basically " Keep your speed up until short final " -- It 's something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily . If you elect to land without flaps the procedure is the same as the " no-flap landings " you should have done in training , and in most small aircraft that should be a non-event . Again , this is something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily , and it 's a technique you should be familiar with in case your flap controls ever fail . What are the consequences ? Well , the good part is you 'll be helping out ATC and the traffic behind you : if you can keep your speed up ATC will be better able to maintain separation between you and the faster aircraft behind you , instead of having to send them around or vector / re-sequence them for spacing . It 's also fun to do this kind of thing occasionally , and helps keep your skills sharp . The bad part is that any time you 're not flying a " normal " approach you 're accepting some additional level of risk . In this case you 're also touching down faster , which means more energy to dissipate ( hopefully through braking , but if something goes wrong you 'll be dissipating that energy through impact , and as dvnrrs pointed out the energy you need to get rid of is proportional to the square of your velocity so the number goes up fast ) . Remember that ultimately flying a fast final or touching down in an alternate ( faster ) configuration is a courtesy to ATC and the traffic you 're mixing with . If you 're comfortable doing it everyone will appreciate your help , but if you are n't comfortable with it just fly a normal approach and let ATC know you are <URL> to fly faster -- the worst thing ATC will do is ask you to go around and re-sequence you with more space next time .
Nope , pilots do not use autopilot to fly in formation . An autopilot can not achieve the precision required for flying formation ( e.g. keep the wingtip aligned to that door ) . Usage of autopilot would also hinder responses when an immediate correction is necessary . You may refer to the TV episode Jet Stream and Blue Angle training videos on the internet . From the pilot 's perspective , the planes are always moving around , though in a confined space . Continuous small adjustment is necessary . From the ground , the small floating can not be noticed visually because the observer is too far away . P.S. Based on my 17 years of experience with PC flight simulator , flying in formation in multiplayer is definitely doable , and can become second nature with practice .
What you are proposing is called a " tandem wing " , and it 's been done before . A brief search should produce more than enough research papers about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular design . The near-complete absence of multiple-wing designs in modern aviation should be a hint that the design has issues . Unless you particularly need the advantages of the design more than the drawbacks , there 's no particular reason to use it .
If the aircraft can be economically repaired ( there is no major structural damage , and we 're not talking about an aircraft already scheduled to be retired ) then it 's likely the aircraft will be repaired and returned to service . When you spend several million on an aircraft you are n't going to throw it away for a few tens or hundred thousand dollars worth of damage , particularly as it 's probably insured . If the aircraft is structurally compromised to the point where repairs would not be economical ( or if we 're talking about an older aircraft which has given many years of service and is due for retirement ) it would probably be written off and scrapped for any salvageable parts ( either repairing it to a condition where it could be ferried to a " <URL> " or dismantled and cut up at the accident site - whichever option is less expensive for the airline ) . As one particularly famous datapoint , the <URL> had an off-airport landing with a nose gear collapse in 1983 . The aircraft was repaired , returned to service , and flew until 2008 ( a little under 25 years of additional service after its incident ) .
Fuel dumping was regulated by FAA <URL> , which was canceled in 2006 . FAA <URL> regarding fuel dumping : ... If the need arises , aircraft are instructed by Air Traffic Control to dump fuel at high altitudes as far away from the airport or any populated areas as possible . At present , there are no hard and fast rules ( at-least in US , for other countries , see below ) regarding fuel dumping and it is left to the air-traffic controllers to guide the aircraft . The main criteria in determining an are for fuel dumping are : - Altitude In general , fuel jettisoned above 5000 ft will vaporize before reaching the ground . Due to this , <URL> recommend fuel dumping above 5000 ft. In general , the ATC will guide the aircraft to an altitude where it can dump fuel so that it vaporises before reaching the ground . - Atmospheric conditions The evaporative characteristics of the fuel dumped depends on the altitude and the atmospheric temperature . The aircraft fuel tends to vaporise faster in a warm day . - Aircraft separation The ATC will try to keep a minimum lateral separation ( ~ 5 miles ) between the aircraft dumping fuel and other aircraft and also some vertical separation ( ~ 2000 ft , according to Order 7110.65 P ) . Except in case of safety emergency , the fuel dumping is carried out at high altitudes . Note : Some countries do have fuel dumping regulations , like <URL> , which says , The choice of the dumping area is determined by the urgency of the incident , the actual flight path , meteorological conditions and the general air traffic situation . The aircraft is led to a selected area by the air traffic control to dump fuel . At the minimum speed of 250 knots at an altitude of 6,000 ft , but usually with 350 knots at 14,000-16 ,000 ft fuel is dumped ... There exist no predefined dumping areas ...
There is no fix maximum a controller is allowed to have under control , as <URL> already pointed out . The airspace under control of ATC is divided up into sectors containing the airways to and from airports within that sector or in upper sectors , airways just for en-route traffic . ( see also : <URL> ) . Sectors can be merged during off-peak hours , split back into separate sectors during peak hours and in the case of TMA or approach sectors , the controller owning the sector can receive additional help by splitting the approach sector further and using different controllers for different tasks within that sector : Feeder/Pickup - Director - Departure Controller . The thresholds of when a sector is split is dependent on many factors , like weather , runway in use , outside influences like adjacent sectors having more traffic that usual , special occurances within that sector like parachute jumper drops . Sectors also vary in size and capacity based on their intended use . While TMA/Approach sectors are rather small and need to accomodate arriving traffic into an airfield , an enroute or upper sector can be significantly larger in size , lateral and vertical . Again , this is individual to each sector , because some factors which hold true for TMA sectors do not apply to enroute upper sectors and vice versa . It also really depends on the controller working the sector and his personal limits , favorite procedures and work practice . A few examples : A TMA controller using vectors to the approach instead of standard arrival routes or transitions will have more workload to monitor and sequence aircraft . The minimum radar separation in TMA sectors and upper sectors can be either 3NM or 5NM . While upper sectors are larger in size , they have to maintain a greater separation , so in some cases , an upper sector twice or multiple times the size of a TMA sector will only be able to accomodate the same number of aircraft ( ceteris paribus ) before reaching saturation . A controller having to work with special situations such as aircraft in distress or student pilots requiring more attention than experienced pilots , will reduce the controllers personal capacity . In summary , to answer your question : There is a situation and controller based threshold , at which saturation will be reached . Controllers are trained to anticipate this threshold and make their supervisor aware of the situation beforehand , so that measures can be taken . There is however no fixed numerical maximum , unless specified in the ARTCC/ACC 's operating procedures .
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
There are four different types of ELTs : Automatic fixed ELT ( ELT ( AF ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is permanently attached to an aircraft . Automatic portable ELT ( ELT ( AP ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft but readily removable from the aircraft . Automatic deployable ELT ( ELT ( AD ) ) . An ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft and which is automatically deployed and activated by impact , and , in some cases , also by hydrostatic sensors . Manual deployment capability is also provided . Survival ELT ( ELT ( S ) ) . An ELT which is removable from an aircraft , stowed so as to facilitate its ready use in an emergency , and manually activated by survivors . All the aircraft I fly in ( all two of 'em ) have the third type . If the aircraft is submerged or experiences a high G-force , the ELT will be triggered . There 's also a button on the panel to activate it manually . I 'm not sure what G-forces are required to set off the ELT , but they must be fairly significant -- I 've slammed my plane down pretty hard while misjudging my landings , and never had it go off . According to <URL> : To meet the " g " force requirements of TSO-C91 , automatic fixed-type inertially activated ELT 's ( except overwater type ) must activate at any inertial force , parallel to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft when installed in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions , of 5 ( +2 , -0 ) g and greater for a time duration of 11 ( +5 , -0 ) milliseconds or longer . So , there you have it . You need 5 -- 7 Gs for 11 -- 16 milliseconds -- but only in the direction the plane is pointing . Misjudging your landing flare and stalling the plane 20 feet off the runway wo n't set it off , as that 's not on the axis they 're measuring .
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
Pilot 's breath is not recorded on a flight data recorder , as it is not one of <URL> . However , if a pilot is breathing abnormally , the cockpit voice recorder may easily detect that as the breathing sound is captured by the CVR . A reference to this can be found in the <URL> for Germanwings flight 4U9525 , which states : ... the only sound to come from Lubitz is the sound of him breathing , picked up by the microphone on his headphone set . ... " We could hear human breathing inside the cabin , " said Mr Robin , " and this breathing noise we heard up until the moment of final impact . That means that the co-pilot was alive . Apparently he was breathing normally , so this is not someone having a heart attack , for example .
Short answer : Yes . But only for a moment . As you suggest , let 's focus on the 90 ° case , because many things will become simpler . Intermediate climb angles can be covered by a linear superposition of horizontal and vertical flight . Now we shoot up at 90 ° flight path angle ( engine thrust permitting ) and leave some angle of attack for the wing to create lift . Lift acts orthogonally to the local flow direction , so the lift will pull the aircraft sideways ( up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . Since there is no other force which will oppose this lift ( drag , weight and thrust all act at 90 ° to the lift , parallel to the flight path ) , the aircraft will accelerate sideways ( again , up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . The angle of attack will immediately decrease and lift creation will stop -- or the pilot forces the angle of attack to stay constant by pulling the elevator , and now the aircraft will further increase its flight path angle . That is a complicated way of saying that the pilot forces the airplane into a loop . If he wants to maintain this 90 ° flight path angle , he better avoid creating any lift .
I have n't seen the Breaking Bad episode , but in my experience any aviation related scenes in films and series are usually stretching reality beyond the breaking point . But it is possible that a single mistake can cause an accident . The probability of that happening is extremely remote , though . Typically there are a number of safety barriers ( also called defensive layers ) in the system ( 1 ) that prevent any single mistake from developing into a collision . However , every barrier has a small probability of not catching the problem ( e.g. due to it not being perfect or being in state of maintenance / failure ) so eventually a crash could result from a single mistake . This is often called the Swiss Cheese Model ( originally from Reason , J. ( 1990 ) Human Error . Cambridge : University Press , Cambridge . ) <URL> When an accident happens , sometimes the phrase " all the holes in the Swiss cheese lined up " is heard , and you now know why . While the first hole might be the mistake of a controller , the other holes may not be mistakes but are certainly rare circumstances and flaws in the system . Accident investigation focuses on identifying these contributing factors . In the <URL> mentioned by Portree Kid , two immediate causes have been identified ( 2 ) : The imminent separation infringement was not noticed by ATC in time . The instruction for the TU154M to descend was given at a time when the prescribed separation to the B757-200 could not be ensured any more . The TU154M crew followed the ATC instruction to descend and continued to do so even after TCAS advised them to climb . This manoeuvre was performed contrary to the generated TCAS RA . The first cause can be seen as a mistake by the controller , however that mistake could only happen because of a number of contributing factors ( systemic causes ) : Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company did not ensure that during the night all open workstations were continuously staffed by controllers . Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company tolerated for years that during times of low traffic flow at night only one controller worked and the other one retired to rest . In addition to the above , the Short Term Conflict Alerting ( STCA ) system did not display conflicts to the air traffic controller because of maintenance ( not listed as a cause in the report , but discussed in the text ) . The second cause is not a mistake by the crew of the TU154M , but a latent failure in the way ACAS/TCAS II was introduced . Never did anyone give guidance on what to do if the controller and the TCAS gave conflicting instructions . In the report this is identified as a systemic cause : The integration of ACAS/TCAS II into the system aviation was insufficient and did not correspond in all points with the system philosophy . The regulations concerning ACAS/TCAS published by ICAO and as a result the regulations of national aviation authorities , operational and procedural instructions of the TCAS manufacturer and the operators were not standardised , incomplete and partially contradictory . So while the accident was caused by a single mistake from the controller , there were also many flaws in the system , which all together allowed the mistake to develop into an accident . ( 1 ) By system I mean the aviation system as a whole , not only the air traffic control ( computer ) systems . ( 2 ) <URL>
" Total time " is n't an officially defined term as far as I know . Most people seem to use it to mean " total flight time " , i.e. the total of their PIC , SIC and flight training time ( excluding simulator training ) . In general , you can log and count whatever you want in your logbook provided that you log at least the items required in 61.51 ( a ) : ( a ) Training time and aeronautical experience . Each person must document and record the following time in a manner acceptable to the Administrator : ( 1 ) Training and aeronautical experience used to meet the requirements for a certificate , rating , or flight review of this part . ( 2 ) The aeronautical experience required for meeting the recent flight experience requirements of this part . So , the bottom line is that " total time " is whatever you want it to be , and if you want to log ' fun time ' in aircraft that you are n't qualified to fly then go ahead ; the time just wo n't count for anything as far as the FAA is concerned . As for your two scenarios : You ca n't log any ' FAA time ' because you 're not certified to fly the aircraft as PIC or SIC , and you are n't receiving training . You might note it in your logbook for your own reasons but you ca n't count it towards anything for the FAA 's purposes . The passenger is n't certified and therefore can not act as PIC ; even if he 's physically moving the controls , you 're still PIC .
end question
start question
What is the low resistance design path in an aircraft to withstand a lightning strike ?
The conductive exterior body Almost all aircraft have metal bodies , the electric current flows through the exterior metal . Aircraft with composite hulls can have conducting material added to the composites to provide a path for lightning . This is typically a metal mesh . Some smaller composite aircraft , lacking this sort of provision , simply can not fly near clouds or anywhere where there is a risk of lightning . photo by Boeing - see references The outer conducting surface acts as a <URL> preventing the high voltages and currents from affecting the interior . a Faraday cage photo by <URL> It is estimated that on average , each airplane in the U.S. commercial fleet is struck lightly by lightning more than once each year . Initially , the lightning will attach to an extremity such as the nose or wing tip . The airplane then flies through the lightning flash , which reattaches itself to the fuselage at other locations while the airplane is in the electric " circuit " between the cloud regions of opposite polarity . The current will travel through the conductive exterior skin and structures of the aircraft and exit off some other extremity , such as the tail . Pilots occasionally report temporary flickering of lights or short-lived interference with instruments . Every circuit and piece of equipment that is critical or essential to the safe flight and landing of an aircraft must be verified by the manufacturers to be protected against lightning in accordance with regulations set by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) or a similar authority in the country of the aircraft 's origin . From <URL> Planes are now built to absorb 250,000 amps , whereas the average strike generates 32,000 amps . " It only gets really serious when the radome [ nose cone ] is struck , the only part of the plane 's shell not made of metal , as this is where the radar is located . But nose cones have special lightning conductors for just this reason . " From <URL> The 787 flight test team gathered the unexpected data last month after one of the Dreamliner test aircaft was struck by lightning . Unlike traditional aluminum aircraft where the entire aircraft is conductive , on a composite airplane the charge from a lightning strike would find its way to the conductive parts such as wiring or hinges . In order to avoid the risk of the charge damaging these kinds of parts , Boeing had to add conductive material to the composites in order to provide a pathway for lightning strikes . From <URL> Other references <URL> <URL> <URL>
Volume Orders Discounts These result in significant discounts to the airline . While discounts are commonplace in the industry , Ryanair ordered 737-800 for an estimated 40-50 million dollars as compared to the list price of around 90 million dollars . With an order of that size Boeing could not risk losing it to another manufacturer , and will be satisfied with less profit per aircraft . <URL> Fleet strategy : Some airlines sell their old aircraft after only a few years while their value is still high but the maintenance costs start to increase . Increased maintenance is bad when you try to squeeze out as many flights as possible and you have small profit margins on every flight . You can find some of Ryanair 's old aircraft by the company code ( AS ) with other operators by searching 737-8AS . Another <URL> is that the customers perception of Low-Cost airlines is generally negatively biased and having new aircraft counters this effectively . Old Aircraft Some operators ( such as charter operators ) will not have the same sensitivity to a slightly higher fuel consumption on their aircraft . They may not use their aircraft the same number of hours , so having an increasingly expensive jet sitting on the ground is not cost-efficient . The aircraft ordered by IndiGo are all new fuel efficient A320NEO . Some of these ideas are emphasized in your link . Of its 530 orders from IndiGo , Airbus has so far delivered 99 aircraft . The airline currently has a fleet of 83 planes and has phased out 16 planes that were over six year old or among the first in its fleet . A bit of Ryanair strategy is outlined in <URL> .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
From an older <URL> on mountain flying : Mountain Wave When the wind speed is above about 25 knots and flowing perpendicular to the ridge lines , the air flow can form waves , much like water flowing over rocks in a stream bed . The waves form down wind from the ridge line and will be composed of very strong up and down drafts , plus dangerous rotor action under the crests of the waves . If enough moisture is present , lenticular clouds can form to give a visual indication of the wave action . These clouds are reported in the remarks section of hourly sequence reports as ACSL ( altocumulus standing lenticular ) or CCSL ( cirrocumulus standing lenticular ) Pretty much sums up what you 're seeing I guess . As for action : Ridge and Pass Crossing On most mountain flights , you will need to cross at least one ridge or pass . Experienced pilots recommend crossing a ridge or pass at the ridge elevation plus at least 1,000 feet . If the winds at mountain top level are above 20 knots , increase that to 2,000 feet . Plan to be at that altitude at least three miles before reaching the ridge and stay at that altitude until at least three miles past it . This clearance zone will give you a reasonable safety zone to avoid the most severe turbulence and down drafts in windy conditions . If conditions or airplane performance dictate , you may need to fly along the windward side of a ridge to find updrafts for gaining altitude before crossing a ridge . You may also need to circle before reaching the ridge if climbing out of a valley airport . When you actually cross a ridge , you should do so at a 45 • angle to the ridge . This allows you to turn away from the ridge quicker if you encounter a severe downdraft or turbulence . Once you have crossed the ridge , turn directly away from it at a go • angle to get away from the most likely area of turbulence quickly . Plan your crossing to give yourself the ability to turn toward lower terrain quickly if necessary . As for helicopter mountain flying specifically , I 'm afraid you are unlikely to find somebody on here with that experience . You might have better chance on searching for it online and phoning up flight schools that offer such courses ( I found a few in the states ) for information .
Stations ( STA ) , generally Fuselage Stations ( FS ) , designate location along the length of the aircraft , increasing from nose to tail . Generally station 0 is somewhere in front of the airplane . One reason for this is that if the airplane grows longer , there still wo n't be any negative stations , and sections of the plane keep their station numbers . FS 100 can also be placed at an important location ( looks like the firewall below ) . Water lines ( WL ) designate location in the height of the aircraft , from ground up . You can probably guess by now that these are holdovers from the marine industry . Like the stations , water line 0 is generally a bit below the aircraft , possibly to have WL 100 at the center of the fuselage , or WL 0 could be at the bottom of the fuselage . Butt lines ( BL ) designate location left/right on the aircraft , generally centered in the middle . While the main system is based on the whole airplane , different parts ( like the wings ) have their own system of STA , WL , and BL . The stations are generally in whatever unit is being used for the aircraft . In the US , this is inches . See <URL> for an example and further explanation . For a picture similar to the one below but with more detail , see <URL> .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
The maximum altitude you can operate your RC plane or copter vertically without any clearance from ATC or another government body is the upper limit of class G airspace in Germany , which is the first available airspace from to the lower vertical limit of controlled airspace C/D/E , which can be 1 , or , depending on surrounding airspace and airports in the vicinity . You can register at the website of the <URL> to obtain the ICAO charts for your area and take a look at the airspace structure near you . The actual ceiling of airspace G can be significantly lower in the vicinity of larger airports , where the controlled airspace C/D/E has been lowered . The below picture shows how the dark green section around Frankfurt Airport has an airspace C with the vertical limits . The airspace E in that area ( not visible in this picture ) has a vertical limit of . Some areas within that section already have an elevation of , which leaves less than of airspace G before the overlying airspace C begins . If you want to get your RC plane or copter into class C/D/E airspace , which is controlled airspace , you will need to obtain a clearance through the ATC unit in control of the sector or the FIS sector responsible , as postulated in <URL> § 16a LuftVO Besondere Benutzung des kontrollierten Luftraums ( 1 ) Bei Inanspruchnahme des kontrollierten Luftraums ist von der zuständigen Flugverkehrskontrollstelle eine Flugverkehrskontrollfreigabe einzuholen für 1 . Fallschirmsprünge und den Abwurf von Gegenständen an Fallschirmen ; 2 . Aufstiege von Flugmodellen und anderen fern - oder ungesteuerten Flugkörpern mit Eigenantrieb ; 3 . Aufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen mit einer Gesamtmasse von Ballonhülle und Ballast von mehr als 0,5 kg sowie Aufstiege von gebündelten unbemannten Freiballonen und Massenaufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen . Please also mind <URL> , which dictactes that any RC plane or UAV needs to remain within the visbility range of the controller , so the maximum altitude can vary depending on the size of your RC plane or copter , the weather minima at your location and your own eyesight : ( 3 ) Der Betrieb von unbemannten Luftfahrtsystemen ist verboten , wenn 1 . er außerhalb der Sichtweite des Steuerers erfolgt oder 2 . die Gesamtmasse des Geräts mehr als 25 Kilogramm beträgt . 1 : AGL = Above Ground Level 2 : MSL = Mean Sea Level
By not flying through thunderstorms . For a small aircraft , the lightning is not the most hazardous part of a cumulonimbus ( Cb ) cloud system . Mature Cb clouds have huge updrafts underneath them , which can cause enough turbulence to upset most aircraft . Heavy rain and hail is also commonplace underneath Cb clouds . Even the rain can be heavy enough to damage wooden propellers and any components on your leading edge ( such as the <URL> found on the Tiger Moths I fly ) . Hail can put holes in your canvas , which are expensive to repair - if you manage to get the aircraft home at all . This turbulence and rain persists for a much longer period and across a wider area than the thunderstorm itself . For these reasons , the chief protection against thunderstorms is by training and procedure : student pilots are taught to avoid Cb clouds when they 're visible , and to plan flights to avoid areas where Cb are forecast . Weather forecasts and reports specially call out Cb clouds to help with this , and ATIS messages often warn of " cumulonimbus cloud in the vicinity of the aerodrome " . Protecting a wooden aircraft specifically against lightning is not hugely worthwhile , because it 's unlikely to be able to stay in the vicinity of the Cb cloud for long enough to be at risk of a lightning strike . It just wooden happen .
A leaseback can be advantageous , especially when you use the aircraft for your own flight training and travel . But there are some things you need to watch out for : Other people will be using your aircraft - whether people admit it or not , nobody will take care of the plane as well as you do . If you think you might take issue with trash in the cockpit , a scratch on the panel , or a tear in the seat , you might want to give this a second thought . In my experience , flying clubs seem to have pilots that take better care of the aircraft , since membership is controlled . You 'll have to schedule your flights - just like everyone else ( though some concessions are usually made for the owner ) . The bottom line is , you wo n't be able to just get up and go fly somewhere at a moment 's notice anymore . You have to play by someone else 's maintenance rules - While you have to comply with FARs in any case , the lessee typically will have stipulations that they ( or their designee ) will perform any required maintenance on your behalf and your say in the matter will be limited . Of course , you still have the honor of paying for any maintenance performed ( typically at little or no discount ) . Your capital is tied up - This can be a good or bad thing . It 's good in the sense that aircraft tend to be a good hedge against inflation risk . It 's bad because you 're precluded from using the money on something else . This is one of the main reasons that flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks . If you 're looking to make money ... it wo n't happen - most leasebacks only help offset the expense of operating the aircraft . If you 're looking for a return on your investment , better to look somewhere else . Do it only to reduce the cost of ownership on something you want anyway . Finally , YOU take on the financial risk of the aircraft - in most leaseback situations , you are reimbursed for any use , but are still responsible for any finance and indirect ( and sometimes direct ) maintenance costs . These have to be paid , whether the aircraft is flying or not . And if business starts to slow down ... well , I 'll give you a hint : it 's not the flying club that has to pay to keep your plane airworthy . This is the main other reason flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks .
Skew is essentially when the flap does n't extend or retract straight back . Picture a situation where you have a 1 meter wide board you 're pushing down a track that 's slightly wider than the board . Your left hand is about a quarter of the way in from the left edge , and your right hand similarly in from the right edge . As long as you push straight down the track , evenly , with both hands , the board slides along and does n't contact the edge . Now suppose that your right hand pushes harder than your left hand : the board will start to turn , and the edges of the board will contact the edges of the track . The skew sensor detects that this sort of misalignment is starting to happen , and causes the flap drive to stop . Ideally , this takes place before the flap makes physical contact with any other hardware , so nothing is damaged ! Edit : <URL> . You can see that there are multiple flaps on each wing , and while normally everything moves in synch , you can envision how if one actuator stopped working , the errant flap could get turned pretty far out of alignment , make contact with other hardware , and cause some significant damage . So before this happens , the skew sensor sends the command back to stop everything from moving . From Boeing 's <URL> : The 757-300 has incorporated a flap skew detection system . Flap skew occurs when either the inboard or outboard edge of the flap moves farther than the rest of the flap . The flap skew detection system monitors , detects , and shuts down the flaps if a skew condition occurs . The heart of this system is the flap slat accessory module ( FSAM ) , taking the place of the flap slat electronic unit ( FSEU ) number 3 . The new LRU was introduced because the existing configuration of the FSEU would not accommodate the addition of the flap skew circuits . The flap skew sensors are mounted on the trailing edge of the flap jack screws ( fig. 4a ) . The sensor ( fig. 4b ) is fixed to the flap track , and a target ( which contains magnets ) is mounted to the jackscrews . As the jackscrew begins to turn , the target also turns . This will pulse the sensor , and a signal ( distance traveled ) is sent to the FSAM , which compares this signal with the opposite side of the same flap . If the distances traveled by either side of the flap differ by a predetermined amount , the FSAM will shut down the flap system to help eliminate damage to the flap and surrounding structure and the possible loss of a flap in flight . The alternate flap mode will override the normal flap skew detection function , allowing maintenance personnel to move the flaps after maintenance has been performed . Maintenance personnel must verify the flap fault and also ensure that moving the flap will not cause any damage .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
As long as you remain VFR then the equipment requirements for the airplane and the flight are VFR . § 61.57 says " Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device ... " . It does n't say anything about having an IFR certified airplane or having a current pitot/static and altimeter check . If you are maintaining SEL IFR currency , then all you need is a SEL airplane . MEL IFR , then a multi-engine plane , etc. . And if you are missing some of the 6-pack instruments , all the better for practicing partial panel .
I 've downvoted the answer from Habu because it ignores a major difference in engine design . For small GA planes , the Lycoming engines have the carburetor bolted to the bottom of the crankcase where it gets some heat from the hot oil . Fuel/air exits the top of the carb where it is routed through pipes inside the crankcase where the hot oil further increases its temperature . This makes the Lyc generally resistant to induction icing . In Continentals , the updraft carburetor is not mounted on the hot crankcase but on part of the manifold assembly , insulating the carb itself from the heat of the crankcase , and the fuel/air mixture is routed directly to the intake manifold and not through the engine crankcase which holds the hot oil . The result is that the TCM O-300 engine has earned the reputation of being an icemaker . The difference in the POH instructions as to how to fly each engine is directly attributable to engine design and it has absolutely nothing to do with the weather in Vero Beach versus Wichita . I 'm going to post line drawing images of the two engines to illustrate the point . First : Lycoming . Second : Continental What the original poster is missing is that for most of its history , the Cessna design used Continental engines . Now that it has switched to Lycoming engines , the difference in the engines is probably zero , but they have not abandoned the former POH instructions as that might be confusing to the pilots that fly these planes . After all , using carb heat more often as a default procedure for the Lyc powered Cessnas is a safe procedure .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
I found this off the website after some searching : The advantages of the flying fuselage aircraft ( FFA ) category , compared to conventional aircraft ( CA ) category and flying body aircraft ( FBA ) category , are the following : In conventional aircraft design , the fuselage is aerodynamically neutral and joins only the separate parts of the aircraft . As the wings grow the buoyancy grows as well . In the flying body aircrafts , aerodynamic lift is produced only on the outside of the fuselage and the wings , which comprise a unite body . As the fuselage and wings grow , the generated lift becomes greater . In the flying fuselage aircraft the extra lift is generated from the interior of the fuselage and from the whole aircraft in and out . Thus , maximizing the full extent of the aerodynamic performance of the aircraft . Practically , the new category of the flying fuselage has the following advantages compared to the other categories above . i ) because of the greater generated lift , the aircraft is designed smaller in size , in order to have the same performance as its peers . ii ) due to the smaller dimensions of the aircraft , it occupies less space and needs a smaller hangar . ( cost reduction ) . iii ) the most important advantage is that during the flight in conventional and flying body aircrafts , stability comes only from the main wings dihedral , as well as the size of caudal . The flying fuselage design acts as a funnel and provides extra stability to the aircraft , making the air mass passing through the fuselage in a column of air ( air shaft ) . This is maximizing the stability of the aircraft in all angles and phases of flight . <URL> So what I think what they 're trying to say is that the body generates lift as well . It sounds mostly like something like a <URL> or <URL> in my opinion as a meeting point between a conventional and flying wing aircraft . In any case , the term FFA seems very uncommon and not widely used . <URL> The closest similar thing I 've found was this <URL> . The F-22 Raptor which it seems to closely mimic is not considered a flying wing nor a blended wing body , and after looking at the fuselage I remained a little unconvinced that it generates substantial lift as a body due to the substantial upper structure and lower structure .
The short answer is " Yes " , if the pilot is not properly trained , does n't trust their instruments , or has an instrumentation failure . Without a visual reference ( such as the real horizon or artificial horizon ) it 's very easy for a pilot to place their aircraft in an " unusual attitude " -- something other than the expected straight-and-level flight or commanded turn . As humans we naturally rely on our inner ear and sense of balance to tell us what 's " up " or " down " , but in a moving aircraft you can move through a whole range of attitudes in " 1G maneuvers " ( where your body thinks down is where your seat is ) . Little micro-movements we unconsciously make on the controls ( or larger movements we may make consciously in response to turbulence or other perceved disturbances in the aircraft 's attitude ) based on what our ears and butts are telling us will eventually get us into trouble . It 's so easy that often instructors will have students create their own unusual attitudes in training by having the student close their eyes and simply try to fly straight and level - within a few minutes at most the student will invariably no longer be in level flight . There 's an exercise you can do on the ground to illustrate how imperfect your sense of balance and direction is , but it requires a large , flat , open area . We 'll use an American Football field for this example : Stand on one of the goal lines Have a friend stand at the 50 yard line ( about 45 meters away ) Close your eyes or put on a blindfold , count to ten , and walk directly toward your friend Stop when you reach your friend ( or your friend yells " STOP " because you 're about to walk into a goal post ) Most people will not make it to their friend on the 50 yard line , because without a visual reference it 's very hard to walk a straight line : You will veer off one way or the other , and some folks will even manage to walk in a complete circle ( which is what eventually tends to happen over a large enough distance ) . The same principles apply to flight , except there 's a third dimension ( vertical ) to contend with .
end question
start question
Do helicopter rotor tips regularly go supersonic ?
The " wop wop " , usually known as blade slap , is heard when the tip of the blade passes through the vortex created by the previous one . It can be avoided . The most common flight regime when this happens is a shallow descent but still with quite a lot of power - e.g. fast and shallow . The vortex starts to move down as soon as it leaves the tip of the blade so in level flight , the following blade passes over it . In a shallow descent with high pitch angle , the following blade can literally " slap " into the previous vortex . The vortices of the two blades now interact and can cause local , transient supersonic flow . To avoid it , simply lower the pitch to establish a more positive descent or pull back on the cyclic to increase disc loading and flatten the attitude . The blade tips do not go supersonic . In fact , in nearly all helicopter designs , the rotor rotates within a very narrow range of speeds , typically between 90 % and 110 % of the normal speed . In most flight regimes , the rotor is rotating at 100 % , + / - a few percent , whether you are climbing , descending or cruising . Only during auto-rotation and aggressive manoeuvring does the range vary by 10 % or more . It depends on the type of helicopter but absolute limits would be something like 85 % ( panic time , risk of complete stall ) and 115 % ( smaller panic , risk of damage to the machine , especially in the tail rotor drive shaft ) . In normal operations , and design aims to achieve this , the rotor tips do not go supersonic since when they do , there is a sudden and large decrease in performance with more power required , higher blade loads , vibration and noise . Think about a helicopter flying forwards . The advancing blade at its most perpendicular position experiences a relative airflow which is equal ( ignoring all kinds of minor side effects ) to the forward speed plus the speed of the blade . The retreating blade is experiencing a relative airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the speed of the helicopter . If the blades rotate so fast that the tips are supersonic , then the main lift generating part of the retreating blade , the outer two thirds of the span , would experience such a low airspeed , for some of the span it will even be negative , that the blades will stall causing a catastrophic roll into that side . It is this phenomenon which ultimately limits the rotational speed of the blades and the maximum speed of the helicopter . Let 's look at the R22 as an example . The following figures are approximate . The rotor tip speed is about 670 fps ( feet per second ) . The speed of sound at ground level on a standard day is about 1100 fps . The R22 is flying at close to VNE , let 's say 100kts which is about 170 fps . The tip on the advancing side , at it 's fastest , is therefore flying relative to the airflow at 840 fps and on the retreating side , at it 's slowest , at 500 fps . The blade length is about 11 feet , so the middle portion of the blade on the retreating side is only flying at 190 fps ( half of 670 minus the airspeed ) . When you get to about 4 feet out from the blade root , it 's now only 50 fps and not much further in from that , becomes zero , then negative . Remember that lift is proportional to the square of the speed . You can now see the huge discrepancy between lift on either side as airspeed increases . To answer your question directly , the R22 would need to fly at 530 fps to approach supersonic tip speed which equates to about 330 kts which it ca n't get anywhere near achieving . PS . The R22 POH speaks in Imperial measures . When I get some time , I 'll redo the figures in metric which I , and most of the world , prefer .
It 's not so easy . The blade length , chord and engine power are connected in complex ways , and for each desired performance there is an optimal combination of those parameters . Rotors ( and wings ) generate lift by accelerating air downwards . The lift is proportional to the rate of change of inertia of the air . This , however , also changes kinetic energy of the air and therefore requires power . This is called induced drag . Since inertia is proportional to velocity , but kinetic energy is proportional to the square of velocity , it is more efficient to accelerate a larger amount of air to a lower speed . The amount of air affected is proportional to the area of the rotor disk ( the whole area in which the blades move ) and that is simply ( $ \ pi \ times $ ) square of blade length . So in a sense the answer is easy : only blade length has effect , blade chord does not . However , increasing the blade length also increases the form and skin drag of the blades , so beyond some point the form drag will exceed the induced drag and any additional increase in blade length wo n't improve efficiency further . Even more importantly , a longer blade will be heavier and therefore will have to be stronger to withstand the centrifugal force when turning , and stiffer so it does not bend too much when not . But that will make it even heavier and you 'll reach a point where you simply exceed the capabilities of the material . And of course higher weight also means more lift is required . These effects will further reduce the optimal length of the blades . The blade chord is then a secondary parameter governed by two concerns : the chord has to be long enough so the blades can generate the necessary lift without stalling and they have to be strong enough , strength being proportional to chord times thickness . So if you want to improve load , you can try to improve efficiency , which you could do by making the blades longer , but you need to find a material with higher specific strength , otherwise the increased weight will outweigh the improved aerodynamic efficiency . If you do n't have that , you will primarily have to increase power of the engines . The optimal blade length may then be longer too , but you will be hitting the limits of the material quickly ; that 's why there are multi-rotor helicopters . If you instead meant speed , that 's a completely different issue and neither blade length nor chord play a significant role there . In forward motion , the speed of a helicopter is limited by two constraints : sufficient portion of the retreating blade has to move aft relative to the airflow and the tip of advancing blade must not exceed speed of sound ( actually , critical Mach number , which is somewhat lower ) . The first requirement means the tip speed must be around three times higher than the maximum forward speed , otherwise the retreating side of the rotor wo n't be able to generate enough lift and the aircraft will roll to that side . Together with the second parameter , it limits the speed to about a quarter of the critical Mach . There are some experimental twin rotor ( intermeshing , side-by-side ) helicopters that do n't mind the lift asymmetry and can fly somewhat faster . But it has nothing to do with blade length ; blades of larger rotor spin at lower rpm to maintain similar tip speed .
Cotswold Airport , near the village of Kemble in Gloucestershire , England . Cotswolds landing strip , has become the busiest aviation scrapyard in the world . Usually the cockpit parts are taken out before they end up there , but you never know ; you may get lucky and they grant you access for a day . I do n't see why not ! Chevron Aircraft Maintenance Ltd is responsible for the dismantling of all Boeing 737 series aircraft .
Most modern helicopters use two engines for added safety . This reduces the field of competing designs . Also , a good engineer will always leave proven details unchanged and focus on improving flawed designs . So it is hard to prove that a new design from an established helicopter company will truly be a clean-sheet design . The possible new designs from 1976 could be : <URL> : First flight 1974 , introduced 1975 . Note that the AS-355 is a two-turbine variant of the single-turbine AS-350 . <URL> : First flight 1975 , introduced 1979 . It has a single reciprocating engine and was indeed a clean-sheet design by Frank Robinson who started the <URL> in 1973 . He had worked previously at Bell Helicopter and Hughes Helicopters .
In the US it is a license as well , that 's why they abbreviate it PPL and CPL. Canada appears to have no restrictions on flight training of non-Canadians other than proving your own with something like a passport , because your citizenship is shown on your license . See this <URL> as a starting point . If you need to reside in Canada during your training and you expect to take longer than 6 months , you will need to obtain a Student Visa to remain in the country legally . You could also use a Tourist Visa , neither of which would all you to work . If you are planning on returning to the US when you are not training , then the Visa would not be required . Converting a Canadian pilot license to a US pilot license is governed by <URL> . It does n't look very complicated , but it will take time and you must take one or more knowledge tests as well as schedule an appointment at your local FSDO for the final approval . Note also that while you do n't have to surrender your Canadian license when you convert to a US license , if you do not that means that you must stay current based on both the US and Canadian rules . I suggest you very carefully study the requirements and do the full math . Once you get started on one path it wo n't be easy to switch to the other if you then realize it was a mistake . Interesting question , BTW . It was fun researching the answer . :)
Tilting the rotor does n't do much , in fact the body will be tilting more than the rotor . The gyroscopic effect will work against you . The cyclic increases lift on one side of the rotor which will tilt the rotor . Which will then move the craft in the correct direction . In other words the cyclic system gives a more direct response to input .
I am going to assume that by " critical " , you mean survivable . I will also assume that the engine failure occurs at a height which will kill you . It 's not so much critical steps , it 's critical outcomes . The single most critical outcome is to preserve , or regain , rotor RPM . What steps are needed to do this will depend on what the aircraft is doing when the engine quits and , to a lesser extent , the type of the helicopter . I will generalise for an " average " helicopter in straight and level flight . The immediate action that is drilled into everyone from the very earliest hours as a student is to lower the collective . Doing this has three effects . It removes the positive pitch from the blades which removes most of the drag , it aligns the rotor thrust vector with the axis of rotor rotation therefore not using rotor energy for anything except lift and it causes a clutch to disengage the rotor from the engine allowing it to freewheel . From this point onwards , you are heading back towards earth . The second immediate action at the same time as lowering the collective ( assuming forward flight ) is to pull back on the cyclic to flare . This loads the disc which causes it to " cone " upwards which reduces the disc diameter . Therefore , the centre of gravity of the disc moves inwards and due to conservation of angular momentum , the rotor RPM increases . For quite complex reasons , the nose of the helicopter will also pitch down when the collective is lowered so pulling back counters that tendency . The third immediate action is to push in the pedal on the opposite side to the rotation of the blades . If the blades rotate counter clockwise ( to the left as the pilot sees it ) you push in right pedal to reduce the thrust which is produced by the tail rotor which is no longer countering the yaw caused by the drag from the powered rotor . This is less critical than the first two and although it can be dangerous and get you into an uncomfortable attitude , it is usually possible to recover from not pushing the pedal in immediately . If you 've got rotor RPM , then you can sort it out . Now you have successfully entered autorotation . From here , fly more or less normally to the next critical point which is about 50 ' off the ground . What you 've done is to ensure that the rotor has flying RPM and that you are managing energy by trading potential energy ( height ) for kinetic energy ( rotor RPM ) . The conversion is done by the airflow which now comes from under the disc and " drives " the rotor to maintain RPM . The pitch is neutral , or maybe even negative but , the relative airflow is now upwards through the disc and therefore , the blades have a positive angle of attack and generate some lift . This stops the helicopter from falling . There is some drag generated as a consequence of generating that lift , but it is easily overcome by the power which is now driving the rotor from that upward airflow . As long as you are descending , that conversion will happen and your RPM will be maintained . The controls are rigged such that with the collective fully down , RPM will remain in the normal range . Sometimes you have to tweak it a little with small amounts of collective , flares and turns but in general , you just fly towards your landing spot . The allowed RPM range is greater in autorotation . For example ( and from memory ) , the R22 has a range of 97-103 % in normal flight and 90-110 % in autorotation . You are now descending with a high rate of descent and usually , significant forward speed . You need to reduce both of those to get to a safe arrival . To do this , there are three more critical steps . Starting at about 50 feet ( depending on lots of factors but let 's stick with the average helicopter which entered autorotation from straight and level with significant altitude ) , you flare the aircraft by pulling back on the cyclic . This will immediately begin to slow the aircraft . It will also begin to increase RPM ( you are now converting speed into rotor kinetic energy ) . At the same time , you increase collective to reduce the rate of descent by increasing the lift generated . This will rapidly increase the drag , but now the energy needed to maintain the RPM is coming from the flare which is converting speed into RPM . You also need to put in pedal to stop the aircraft from yawing as the drag increases on the rotor . Providing you get the entry right and your flare reduces the speed and rate of descent to something survivable , then you will walk away . You might wreck the helicopter and break some bones , but arrive at 10 feet with only 20 knots and 150 feet per minute rate and you 'll get away with it . If you are well trained and in practice , then you will land safely and smoothly with no damage to machine or people . In summary , critical steps : Entry . Lever down , cyclic back , pedal in . Arrival . Cyclic back , lever up , pedal in .
It really is something <URL> the Buran ' takeoff ' versus ' liftoff ' . The answer is no . Given the same weight it should be roughly the same power needed . That is if we are calculating it from the point of rotation for a takeoff and point of initiating a go-around . Given the same starting conditions -- weight and velocity -- both aircraft will have the same kinetic energy . If the takeoff / go-around is to 2,000 feet above starting condition , then the change will be the same gain in potential energy . If they take the same time to reach that height , then it is the same power used . ( Ignoring ground effect . ) The objective of the 2 engines would be to extend the glide distance for a space reentry , say if an incorrect calculation or unforeseen event caused the space glider to come short . A corrective action would need to be applied not close to the ground , but high enough to have a meaningful effect .
Lead lag is caused by the blades speeding up and slowing down as they flap up and down . The blade on the advancing side experiences an airflow equal to it 's speed plus the forward speed of the helicopter . The blade on the retreating side experiences airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the forward speed of the helicopter . This causes <URL> . To counter this , the blades can flap up and down around the flapping hinges . The blade on the advancing side flaps up , reducing the angle of attack and therefore the lift generated . The blade on the retreating side flaps down , increasing the angle of attack and therefore increasing lift . See this video at around 1:30 to see <URL> . This is a gyrocopter , but you can <URL> at 0:39 and 1:17 . Due to <URL> , the blade flapping up speeds up as it 's centre of gravity moves inwards toward the rotor hub . Since the rotor is turning at a constant speed , the blade must move forward around the lead/lag hinge . In a similar way , the blade flapping down slows down so lags . The blades will hunt forward and backwards from the neutral position in a sine wave as the rotor rotates . Lead/lag dampers reduce the force of this hunting . A variation of flapping hinges ( independent hinges for each blade ) is a teetering hinge on 2 blade helicopters where the hinge is connected to each blade . If one blade rises , the other must fall and vice-versa . The entire rotor disc " teeters " on top of the drive shaft . This is known as a <URL> and as far as I know , is used on all 2 blade helicopters . In semi-rigid and rigid heads , the overall effect of the blades speeding up and slowing down cancels out in the complete cycle of rotation and other mechanisms are used to reduce the hunting loads . Imagine a 4 blade rigid rotor . 2 blades are trying to speed up the rotor and 2 are trying to slow it down in equal amounts . One serious side effect of lead/lag on fully articulated heads is <URL> . Since the blades can move forwards and backwards , it is possible for the blades to get closer together on one side than on the other , especially when the helicopter lands with a roll angle , so one gear hits the ground first . This shifts the centre of balance away from the centre of rotation which can induce a wobble of the rotor head , which translates into a vertical " bounce " vibration at the landing gear . If conditions are right ( or wrong , depending on your view point ) , the resonance can be amplified by the natural resonance frequency of the helicopters landing gear and can lead , if allowed to continue , to the <URL> . If you think that helicopter blades are quite rigid , <URL> .
Helicopter manufacturers seem to have been slow to adopt fly-by-wire systems . I used to work in the General Dynamics group which designed the fly-by-wire system for the F-16 . That was the first production aircraft which had full-authority fly-by-wire ( without mechanical backup systems ) . By the time I started working there , they were in process of updating the system to incorporate a digital flight control computer . The production required extensive coordination between multiple disciplines . As an electrical engineer , I regularly interacted with software engineers , control-law designers , test engineers , and " mechanization " engineers . It took many years for the company to develop such a culture , where each member is concerned with the efficiency and safety of the aircraft . I speculate the helicopter manufacturers did n't catch up for a couple of decades because funding was limited . Here is an article which describes the Army 's experience : <URL> Funding aside , helicopters are ideal candidates for fly-by-wire systems . The obvious goal is to take a marginally controllable aircraft and make it both stable and maneuverable . That would dramatically reduce pilot workload . Most helicopter fly-by-wire systems accomplish hands-free hover and decoupled control inputs ( i.e. sideways flight without needing rudder inputs ) . The first helicopter which demonstrated a great fly-by-wire system was the Sikorsky RAH-66 . It even achieved sideways flight at 60 knots and backward flight at 25 knots , using only cyclic stick inputs . Unfortunately , that program was cancelled in 2004 . The first production military fly-by-wire helicopter is the Airbus NH90 , which entered service in 2007 . Soon , there will be production of the first civilian fly-by-wire helicopter too : <URL> .
The FAA treats large airplanes the same as any other airplane when it comes to VFR flight . They are required to maintain the same distance from clouds , only fly with the same minimum visibility , see and avoid other aircraft , etc. . However , since only IFR flights are allowed above FL180 ( without a special exemption ) , and large turbine airplanes are terribly inefficient at low altitudes , so it does n't happen very often . In the US , Part 121 flights have the most restrictions of any of the operating rules , and they have multiple regulations relating to VFR flight , including this one1 : <URL> No person may dispatch or release an aircraft for VFR operation unless the ceiling and visibility en route , as indicated by available weather reports or forecasts , or any combination thereof , are and will remain at or above applicable VFR minimums until the aircraft arrives at the airport or airports specified in the dispatch or flight release . So yes , even if it is operated by a 121 carrier , they are allowed to fly VFR by the regulations . However , they must also comply with their Operations Specifications and Flight Operations Manuals which will have detailed procedures covering the conditions where it is allowed . Outside of 121 there are even fewer restrictions on VFR flight . 1 There is also : § 121.347 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes navigated by pilotage . § 121.349 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes not navigated by pilotage or for operations under IFR or over the top . § 121.649 - Takeoff and landing weather minimums : VFR : Domestic operations . § 121.667 - Flight plan : VFR and IFR : Supplemental operations .
FlightRadar and similar websites use <URL> for aircraft detection , most commonly they use <URL> . Not all General Aviation aircraft , to which helicopters would count normally , are equipped with transponders that are capable of emitting ADS-B data , so they would not show via regular means on FlightRadar . The primary technology that Flightradar24 use to receive flight information is called automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ADS-B ) . ADS-B is a relatively new technology under development which means that today it 's rarely used by Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) . Our estimations show that roughly 65 % of all commercial passenger aircraft ( 75 % in Europe , 35 % in the US ) are equipped with an ADS-B transponder . For general aviation this number is probably below 20 % . But this percentage is steadily increasing as ADS-B will become mandatory for most aircraft in most airspaces around the world , by year 2020 . When mandatory , ADS-B will replace primary radar as the primary surveillance method used by ATC . Flightradar24 has a network of more than 4,000 ADS-B receivers around the world that receives plane and flight information from aircraft with ADS-B transponders and sends this information to our servers . Due to the high frequency used ( 1090 MHz ) the coverage from each receiver is limited to about 250-400 km ( 150-250 miles ) in all directions depending on location . The farther away from the receiver an aircraft is flying , the higher it must fly to be covered by the receiver . The distance limit makes it very hard to get ADS-B coverage over oceans . About 99 % of Europe is covered with ADS-B receivers . There is also good ADS-B coverage in USA , Canada , Mexico , Caribbean , Brazil , Russia , Middle East , India , Japan , Thailand , Malaysia , Indonesia , Australia and New Zealand . In other parts of the world the ADS-B coverage varies . The other option is to receive the regular Mode-S transponder signal by a technique called <URL> , however the FlightRadar website states that this is something that only works reliably at high altitude , at least 5 000 to 10 000 ft. In some regions with coverage from several FR24-receivers we also calculate positions of non-ADS-B equipped aircraft with the help of Multilateration ( MLAT ) , by using a method known as Time Difference of Arrival ( TDOA ) . By measuring the difference in time to receive the signal from aircraft with an older ModeS-transponder , it 's possible to calculate the position of these aircraft . Four FR24-receivers or more , receiving signals from the same aircraft , are needed to make MLAT work . That means that MLAT coverage can only be achieved above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet as the probability that signal can be received by four or more receivers increases with increased altitude . Most parts of Europe are today covered with MLAT above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet . There is also some MLAT coverage in North America , Mexico , Australia and Brazil . More areas will get MLAT coverage during 2014 and 2015 . For more information , check <URL> page .
Yes , the tips of the fan blades . Let 's look at an example : The <URL> has a <URL> of 3124 mm and a maximum rotational speed of 3475 RPM . Their circumferential velocity is d · π · 57.917 = 568 m/s or Mach 1.67 at sea level and ISO atmosphere . Now you need to add the flow speed of the air , but this calculation alone should be sufficient to prove the point . The inner part of the fan and all the compressor stages belonging to the core engine experience flow at subsonic speed , even if the whole engine is flying at <URL> ( see picture below ) . To make ignition as complete as possible , the flow speed is <URL> the closer you move to the fuel injectors . Since the air is heated in the combustion chamber , the hotter gas has a higher speed of sound , and all the flow through the turbine is subsonic , too . This includes the low-pressure turbine . Even the 1,600 ft/s shown below at the turbine is subsonic , because at 1100 ° C the speed of sound in air is <URL> or 2,362 ft/s . <URL> Overview of parameters in a typical jet engine . Only in the rear part of a <URL> with reheat switched on will supersonic flow again be attained . This is exactly aft of the narrowest section , called the throat , where airspeed is equal to the speed of sound , and the petals of the nozzle are the only moving parts here . And they move rather slowly .
Flow separation happens when the pressure gradient of the airflow along the flow path becomes too steep . In subsonic flow , the oncoming air is first decelerated ahead of the wing , then swiftly accelerated when it flows around the strongly curved nose section of a wing . This acceleration is the consequence of the wing 's curvature . See it this way : If the airflow would be along a straight line , it would move away from the surface , creating a local vacuum . In reality , the air settles at a compromise between the straight path and following the contour , creating decreasing pressure along a surface with increasing curvature and increasing pressure along surfaces with decreasing curvature . More precisely , it is always in an equilibrium between inertial , viscous and pressure forces.This suction not only bends the airflow into following the wing 's contour , but also accelerates the air ahead of it . The lower the pressure , the more the air speeds up , such that the total energy of air ( the sum of pressure and kinetic energy ) stays constant . Therefore , pressure and local speed change in sync.When the curvature decreases further downstream , the flow path becomes straighter and pressure rises again . However , the air particles close to the wing slow down because of friction . The layer of air where this slowing is noticeable is called boundary layer . In it , the deceleration effects due to pressure rise and due to friction add up , and at some point the air comes to a standstill relative to the wing . Where this happens , static air will collect and build up , causing flow separation . Thankfully , the exchange of air across a turbulent boundary layer kicks the slowest air particles downstream , so at moderate angles of attack the air still moves along until it reaches the trailing edge . Only when the suction peak around the nose becomes very high at high angle of attack , the consequent steep pressure rise along the remaining flow path overpowers the possibilities of the turbulent boundary layer , the air decelerates completely and the flow separates . This is a wholly subsonic affair . If the wing moves at high subsonic speed , the curvature-created suction accelerates the flow such that it reaches supersonic speed . Now something odd happens : Supersonic flow accelerates further when subsonic flow would decelerate . This is caused by the change in density which is dominant at supersonic speed . Incompressible ( = very slow ) flow has constant density , and all speed changes affect pressure . At Mach 1 , the pressure and density changes are of equal magnitude , and in supersonic flow the density changes dominate . Now we have a supersonic pocket of air on the upper surface of the wing where speed increases and density decreases downstream , and the surrounding subsonic air sees little change in density . This picture should give you some idea how it looks : The whole wing moves at Mach 0.68 . Compare the green color at some distance from the wing with the scale on the left side , which gives the Mach number for each color shade . At the airfoil nose , you see a blue area . This is where the air decelerates - it gets pushed together by the approaching wing . Now follow the colors along the upper side - they quickly turn green , yellow and red as the air is accelerated into the low pressure area ( remember , low pressure equals high speed , so the reddest area has the highest local flow speed and the lowest pressure ) . In subsonic flow , the suction peak would be somewhere between 20 % and 30 % of chord , and the colors would slowly change back to yellow and green if you move further downstream . Now we have local supersonic flow ( everything redder than light orange is supersonic here ) , and instead of slowly decelerating , the air is speeding up to a maximum Mach number of 1.23 at almost 60 % of chord length.This can not last , and at some point this supersonic pocket collapses . This happens instantly in a shock , and as you know , in a straight shock density increases suddenly and speed decreases such that the <URL> . In the picture above , boundary layer effects create a lambda shock , which has its name from the Greek letter which looks like the shock pattern here . Aft of the shock , you have subsonic flow again , and a much thicker boundary layer which moves very slowly ( blue shade ) . This is due to the energy conversion through the shock , which converts kinetic energy into heat . But the flow is still attached - even this shock did not cause separation . If this pressure rise is big enough , the boundary layer will come to an instantaneous standstill , and then the flow separates . This is the shock induced separation you asked about . Unfortunately , the picture above is the best I could find , and I have none with separated flow aft of the shock . But it helps to show that the center of pressure moves aft . This causes a strong nose-down moment . Also , with higher subsonic Mach numbers directional stability decreases . Now even more nasty things can happen : The location of the sho
The control problems are caused by a shift of the aerodynamic forces . In subsonic flight , they are mostly created in the forward part of the wing ( the lift increase with angle of attack works at the quarter chord point of a wing , regardless of sweep ) , while in supersonic flow they work equally over the full chord . The center of lift in pure supersonic flow is at mid chord , and in reality the aerodynamic center shifts slowly back when the aircraft accelerates through Mach 1 and more of the surface is exposed to supersonic flow . Since the c.g. position is mostly fixed ( Concorde pumped fuel between tanks to shift the c.g. ) , this shift must be compensated with elevator deflection . The elevator must move trailing edge up , which creates a break in the airfoil contour , which in turn creates a heavy shockwave at high subsonic and supersonic flight speed . This shock causes flow separation and can lead to elevator reversal . Only when the fixed part of the horizontal tail can be moved , too , or you have a full-flying tail ( the whole stabilizer is moved , not only the rear part of it ) to create the needed lift change without a contour break , the aircraft can be trimmed for both subsonic and supersonic speed . The benefit of the X-1 was a stabilizer with variable incidence , which the P-51 lacked . Sweep would have helped , too , but was not really necessary .
It 's typically stored in the cargo bin with the checked luggage . If it is to be returned to the jetway , it will be tagged with a distinctive tag so that it 's clear that it has been screened already ( i.e. it came in through security , so it can go back out into the terminal with you at your destination ) . In many cases , though , once an item has been gate-checked , it will be delivered to baggage claim to be picked up there . The exception to that is baby strollers -- they should be returned to the jetway since parents tend to need those to get the young ones around the airport . Individual airline policies , of course , will vary . With small jets ( not a 737 , but a regional jet or turboprop , perhaps ) , the carry-on space is so limited that all sorts of things that would be accepted as a carry-on for a larger aircraft ca n't go into the cabin , so those may go into a dedicated cargo hold &amp; all returned as the passengers deplane .
Depends on what you mean . Get to high altitude ? Yes you can . It is really inefficient to get there , but some aircraft already do it . Achieve a stable orbit and be able to maintain control ? No , at those altitudes you do not have enough oxigen to keep your engines running , you have to bring your own ( and thus use a rocket ) For the sake of clarity , some definitions : reactive engine : includes both rockets and jets . The engine pushes some mass in one direction and by reaction it achieves thrust in the opposite one . jet ( engine ) : is used to refer to air breating engines . The aircraft carries the fuel , but not the oxidiser , that is taken from the sorrounding atmosphere . rocket ( engine ) : is used to refer to non breathing engines . The ( space ) craft carries both the fuel and the oxidiser . No atmosphere is needed . space : above 100km of altitude . <URL> : staying in space : Images from <URL>
There is n't much non-flying duty for airline pilots . The most important is recurrent training . Pilots are required to attend a refresher course at least annually . This school covers regulations , aircraft systems , and performance . The performance part involves computing weight and balance , airfield/weather restrictions , fuel required , etc ( basically the same thing as a Cessna 172 , but with much bigger numbers ) . Additionally , full flight simulators are used to teach and/or evaluate normal and non-normal ( we do n't get emergencies anymore ) procedure . This training is usually concurrent with the groundschool . Pilots are required to maintain their approach charts and aircraft manuals ; changes come frequently . A junior First Officer will spend an eternity ( at least it seems like it ) doing standby duty . This involves being available to take the place of any pilot who calls in sick or is otherwise unavailable . All pilots must pass a flight physical . The implication is that they must maintain themselves in at least minimal health . I hope this at least partially answers your question .
It would chop it <URL> . Watch the video . It 's fun . When the helicopter pitches up right after refueling , the rotor disc can not follow the movement ( its hinges allow the blades to pitch up and down , and inertia makes it change its plane of rotation only slowly ) . The refueling probe is cut cleanly in half . However , I would not try this on purpose . The risk of damaging a blade is considerable . I am sure the rotor blades needed to be replaced after that incident .
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
end question
start question
Is trigonometry used by commercial pilots ?
Note that this answer was given to the original question , The question was subsequently edited , after this answer was accepted . Much of the information provided in this answer does not now apply directly to the current question , but it does serve to provide context and for this reason it has been retained . Pilots use trigonometry primarily for calculations involving wind angles , either for navigation or for cross-wind components for takeoff or landing . Note that pilots often accomplish these calculations with a flight computer such as the <URL> , a circular slide rule : <URL> Image by Dave Faige -- <URL> -- used under <URL> Many such flight computers are available , including electronic versions , such as the <URL> . Personally , I now prefer to use web-based software , but in flight school my preferred calculation method was a <URL> programmed to do vector addition and other pre-flight calculations . In the cockpit , the <URL> -- a pocket version of the larger E6B mechanical flight computer and which can be operated with one hand -- is usually the most functional method . Regardless of how they are performed , such calculations are typically for the purpose of either : Calculating wind correction angles for cross-country navigation based on forecast wind conditions , or Calculating crosswind component for takeoff or landing based on reported wind conditions . The later are fairly straight-forward ; the former are more complex . Crosswind component is a simple tangent calculation . Wind correction angles are more complex involving vector addition taking into account magnetic course , true airspeed , forecast wind angle , and forecast wind speed . Now , the original question was merely , do pilots need to use trigonometry . The answer to that question is , " Yes " . The question has since been edited to specify the use of trigonometry " directly , with trigonometry knowledge " . The answer to that question is , " No " , pilots do not need to have a working understanding of trigonometry , though they do need to be capable of computing the above described wind problems . A pilot need not understand the trigonometry used by the calculator , slide rule , or FMS that he or she uses to perform these calculations . I know good pilots who have no real working knowledge of trigonometry and do quite well without it . For a pilot flying in the IFR environment , wind correction calculation is less frequently a needed calculation since most navigational means provide for wind correction in some way . This is especially true of GPS or RNAV navigation , because the ground track can be compared to the aircraft 's heading to show wind correction angle .
There is no regulation against doing so provided that the third person in the cockpit is type rated for PIC privileges on the aircraft and has a waiver from the FAA to operate the aircraft as a single pilot ( they are available with some additional training . ) In practice , this would almost never occur both for safety reasons and cost . In addition full motion simulators are available for most aircraft type rated for a two person flight crew , so it would just be more feasible to carry out the training in one of these using simulated IMC , which is arguably more realistic and accurate than flying the real thing under the hood .
<URL> lists a number of specific ways that PIREPs are used by meteorologists : To " assess the strength and position of the jet stream " For thunderstorm and snow level forecasting For <URL> of regional weather phenomena , like " downslope wind storms in the lee of the Sierra Nevada " To " determine the likelihood of clouds thinning or burning off " Their summary is : Better reports and observations , not only from PIREPS but also storm spotters , Webcams and road weather networks help improve the picture of what 's going on in the atmosphere . Automated temperature , wind and humidity reports from MDCRS and the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System in commercial aircraft also get incorporated into computer models . All of these observations lead to improved forecasts and warnings . There are a few very generic references out there too . A 2014 edition of <URL> says : The information will then be added to the distribution system to brief other pilots , help generate inflight advisories like AIRMETs and SIGMETs , as well as updates to the Current and Forecast Icing Products ( CIP/FIP ) , and improve overall forecast accuracy . And an <URL> has a brief mention : when the Aviation Weather Center ( AWC ) receives a pirep , meteorologists use it to verify that their weather forecast is correct or amend it if the pirep contradicts the forecast . Finally , PIREPs ( and <URL> ) are shown <URL> , although that probably is n't what you had in mind by meteorologists ' using ' the information .
Like @mongo , I am not aware of a regulation and do n't recall seeing anything about it in the AIM . However , the Airplane Flying Handbook ( FAA-H-8083-3B ) says this about engine start : Prior to engine start , the pilot must ensure that the ramp area surrounding the airplane is clear of persons , equipment , and other hazards from coming into contact with the airplane or the propeller . Also , an awareness of what is behind the airplane prior to engine start is standard practice . A propeller or other engine thrust can produce substantial velocities , result in damage to property , and injure those on the ground . The hazard of debris being blown into persons or property must be mitigated by the pilot . At all times before engine start , the anti-collision lights should be turned on . For night operations , the position ( navigation ) lights should also be on . Finally , just prior to starter engagement , the pilot should always call " CLEAR " out of the side window and wait for a response from anyone who may be nearby before engaging the starter .
Indirectly , yes . Friction goes up when dirt and smashed bugs accumulate on the wing . A low surface energy coating might well reduce their stickiness , so the wing collects less dirt and has less roughness . This is especially helpful when it helps to delay the transition from laminar to turbulent flow . Another way to delay that transition would be a soft surface which could help to dampen the characteristic <URL> oscillations from which the transition of boundary layer flow from laminar to turbulent springs . Accelerated flow is naturally damped ( the amplitude decreases relatively to flow speed ) , so it stays laminar on a smooth wing . Once the damping turns negative ( i.e. the oscillation is increasing ) , the turbulent transition is imminent . When the wing is not only smooth , but also soft and helps to dampen those Tollmien -- Schlichting oscillations , even unaccelerated flow might stay laminar for longer , which again reduces friction drag . So far , I am unaware that this effect has been exploited successfully on an aircraft , though . The friction between gaseous substances and solids is not affected by the surface energy of the solid , so a direct reduction in viscous drag due to a polytetrafluoroethylene coating will not happen . I trust you know how drag depends on surface roughness . If not , please feel free to post another question .
Most helicopter do n't carry radar ; there is no need for it . In civil helicopters radar is typically used for weather detection . In most use cases there is not real need for it because helicopters are usually operating under daytime Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) and are staying away from clouds . For maritime helicopters that are used in search and rescue operations or off-shore operations on oil-rigs , weather is often installed . The typical location is in a radome in the nose of the helicopter . Examples are the <URL> or <URL> Military helicopters use radar for detecting objects . Depending on the nature of the mission the helicopter is designed for , the radar is underneath ( usually for navy operation , providing sea surface detection capabilities , see for example the navy version of the NH90 ) or on top of the rotor ( to look over obstacles such a hills / trees and provide fire control to their missiles ) . An example is the <URL> .
Assuming the question was referring to the US airport market , where indeed a big chunk of the airport fees are indeed taxes , here 's their composition according to <URL> :
Based on <URL> , the answer is yes . g. Deactivation means to make a piece of equipment or an instrument unusable to the pilot/crew by preventing its operation Collaring the circuit breaker prevents it from being pushed in , and therefore prevents its operation .
Both ! Some airlines operate simulator facilities . For example , United has a training <URL> with a number of simulators . In turn , they <URL> to others who will pay to use the facilities ( <URL> ) . They can also provide trainers , cabin crew training , ground school training , and other such services . Many airlines have similar programs . They 've even <URL> to customers willing to bid frequent flyer miles for the privilege . When an airline does n't own and operate the necessary equipment itself ( even an airline that runs its own simulators may not have a suitable quantity for every aircraft in its fleet ) , it can contract for such services from someone else . That someone else might be another airline , a company that provides simulators ( <URL> ) and may offer other training services like instructors , or a provider affiliated with the manufacturer ( <URL> ) .
For a proper answer we first need to define what " safe enough " is . If you want a significant reduction in risk over current standards , improving the restraint <URL> . Your observation is absolutely correct : The lap belt is the minimum the airlines get away with , and you would be much better protected in some kinds of accident by a proper 5-point harness . But fitting the harness alone will not achieve much : To stay in place in a crash , all seats need to be reinforced , so they can tolerate the increased loads at the shoulder belt attachment points . This will add weight and cut into the profits of airlines , so it will only happen when it is mandated . Please read <URL> for more details . It concerns GA aircraft , but much applies to airliner seats as well . The better the restraints are , the more deceleration load can be survived . Note that the points in the <URL> are from tests with additional leg , chest and arm restraints . If all you have is a lap belt , you might probably be able to tolerate only half as many gs . The better alternative to a 5-point harness would be to <URL> . This would help most to reduce injuries and improve chances of survival in a crash landing . Now I have to contradict @FreeMan : While the brace position will put all the load on a small strip around a person 's hips and lets the arms flail forward , a properly secured torso can take 10g for a duration of more than a second and up to 40g momentarily without ripping the head off . See below the famous sequence of Dr. John Stapp in a ride on his rocket sled " <URL> " : <URL> Dr. John Stapp in a deceleration test ( picture <URL> ) He clearly had his head bobbing about , but even though he lost dental fillings and suffered hemorrhage in his eyes , the head stayed intact . In the end , all what the lap belt is really good for is to keep you in your seat with negative acceleration due to gusts . This is by far the most common situation when a restraint is needed . The classical brace position ( torso over legs , head down ) is impossible anyway in economy class due to the ever reducing seat pitch .
Jetstreams generally do n't stay perfectly straight . They tend to follow a meandering , curved path so it would be rare for a flight to stay in the max tailwind for very long . Dispatchers will often take advantage of jetstreams and plan the routing to follow part of the jetstream core . There is a website called <URL> where pilots can post photos of high groundspeeds for an " Unofficial " record . Here is an example from that website giving a groundspeed of 736 knots from a 240 knot jetstream tailwind . That is probably about the highest jetstream speed you will see : <URL> <URL>
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
There 's a thread on <URL> about the same topic . One of the most prominent and useful aspects of the delta wing is the fact that it increases an airplane 's critical Mach number ( the speed at which some air passing over any part of an aircraft - usually the wing - reaches Mach 1.0 ) . By increasing the critical Mach number , it makes supersonic flight much more feasible on delta wings than on conventional wings . Delta wings are particularly happy even at a high AoA ( angle of attack ) . This is because of the reaction lift generated by the wing , and the vortex created at the leading edge of the wing . Hence , airplanes with delta wings have a much higher tolerance to stalling . This makes it easier to attain higher vertical speed , also known as " rate of climb " safely . But on the flip side : One of the downsides of deltas is that they create more drag , because of the bigger surface area , but they do have a bigger internal volume ( for fuel , for example ) which could lead to a smaller fuselage , or more space in the fuselage for other things . Another disadvantage is higher landing and take off speeds . The last point is particularly important . The Concorde 's already small number of usable airports was reduced because the runways needed to be long enough to accommodate for the 160 KIAS landing speeds ( for comparison , typical turbofan-based airliners lands at 130-140 KIAS ) . As a result of the higher takeoff/landing speeds , the cost of maintenance of vital components such as the brakes and tyres is higher . Moreover , the high landing speeds can even lead to greater stress on the airframe . So , indirectly delta wings do contribute to a higher cost of maintenance . Other disadvantages of delta wings I can think of is the lack of a flaps/slats system . Delta wings do n't require flaps as they can simply reduce their airspeed by increasing the AoA , but the lack of flaps reduces their subsonic efficiency , and increases the takeoff distance and takeoff velocity . For instance , the Concorde 's delta wings produced very little lift during takeoff prior to rotation , necessitating high takeoff speeds of nearly 220 knots ! As an answer to your second question , I could not find anything about regulations relating to the use of delta wings on airliners . All in all , delta wings work well for niche purposes such as supersonic aircraft , but their disadvantages and poor operating economics make them impractical for subsonic flight . However , as you can see here , the now-scrapped Boeing Sonic Cruiser attempted to make the best of both worlds by combining a conventional wing with a delta wing , to form a wide , " cranked-delta " wing design .
<URL> that the pressure decreases over the wing . We can also assume that a particle of air travelling above a wing does it so fast that does not have the time to exchange energy with the sorrounding ones ( called <URL> ) We can now look at a pressure/volume diagram for an adiabatic process that goes from " high " pressure ( the free undisturbed air in front of the aircraft ) to low pressure ( the air on top of the wing ) : image <URL> ( currently unreachable ) As you see from the diagram , if you move along the Adiabat line from the top to the bottom , the temperature drops . If the air has already a temperature near the water condensation one and a high enough humidity , it will condense . From the Wikipedia article linked before : Adiabatic cooling occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased , allowing it to expand , thus causing it to do work on its surroundings . When the pressure applied on a parcel of air is reduced , the air in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases , the temperature falls as internal energy decreases .
There are a few spots not covered by primary radar . Here are a few I can think off : Afghanistan , not really what you 'd expect from flying between Europe and South East Asia . I was told though by the pilots that the Americans were keeping an eye on us . I 'd imagine there are a few holes in the CIS countries as well . Multiple areas in Africa , but this is improving I believe . There 's a post on <URL> . Apparently known as the ' dark continent ' for spotty coverage and consistency . South Africa has good coverage , and I 'd guess the same for much of northern Africa as well . A few remote areas in South America , then again , improving . Oceans are not covered . Determining factors are population density , aircraft density and economic development . As more you Malaysia map , if there 's a radar at Kota Bharu [ KBR ] airport , here 's the map assuming a range of 200 Nm for the radar . It should in theory be well within reach . <URL> And an extended version : SGN Ho Chi Minh City ( Saigon ) [ Tan Son Nhat Intl ] , VN KUA Kuantan [ Sultan Abmad Shah Airport ( Pedang Geroda Airport ) ] , Pahang , MY KUL Kuala Lumpur ( Sepang ) [ Intl ] , Selangor , MY KBR Kota Bharu [ Sultan Ismail Petra ] , Kelantan , MY <URL> Just for the interested , here 's a map showing <URL> , just to get an idea of coverage in a country full of people and planes . Maps from <URL>
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
Most modern commercial airliners are prohibited to power back . Ground operations in aircraft fitted with high-bypass engines is usually restricted to idle and low-idle operations ( enough to make the craft start moving , after which momentum enables further movement with idle only ) . Aircraft capable of power back are predominantly thus turboprops , several operators of these allow their crews to operate accordingly . It 's not in common use anymore , for the following reasons : Thrust reversing can kick up a lot of debris , posing a safety hazard . This would generally preclude any ground crew or spotters walking under the jet as is often done during pushbacks . The previous point 's especially true for under-wing jet engine designs , so only jets with fuselage-mounted engines are allowed to do it , and most of the bigger designs ( DC-9 , MD-80 , 727 ) are being phased out of most fleets . Pilots in most craft ca n't see behind them , another possible safety hazard requiring multiple spotters to be in contact with the pilot . Thrust reversing uses a lot of fuel , so it 's usually cheaper for the airlines to use a guy on a tractor for an assisted pushback . Thrust reversing is loud , and during a powerback that noise is in close proximity to the terminal . The tarmac 's a noisy place , but usually not that loud . If you want to see a powerback performed by a commercial airliner , fly out to L'Esperance in St. Martin . The runway there is very short and has no taxiway leading to the end of the runway from either end , so larger passenger turboprops that service that airport have to turn onto the runway about 2/3 down its length , face their desired takeoff direction , then powerback to the end of the runway in order to have enough to take off . The larger and ( relatively ) busier Princess Juliana International , on the Netherlands side , has taxiways and turnaround areas at both ends of its runway .
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
Motive flow is required in design of ejector pumps in fuel system . Ejector pumps ( also known as jet pumps or eductor pumps ) have no moving parts and therefore represent a highly reliable , low cost means to move fuel in an aircraft . All jet pumps contain the physical characteristics illustrated in below figure . <URL> In this pump , the motive flow comes from a high pressure source such as a primary boost pump , or the returned fuel from the engine . When the high pressure motive flow passes through the throat it creates a suction which sucks fuel from its neighborhood and the total fuel flow are sent to another location . The overall efficiency of an ejector pump is low when compared to electric motor powered pumps but they are frequently used due to their extremely long life , high reliability and low cost . The ejector pumps generally are used for two functions : Ejector pumps are often used to provide the primary fuel boost function in smaller transport aircraft applications such as business jets and regional aircraft . In order to minimize the unusable fuel , scavenge pumps are often employed to suck up fuel from the remote corners of fuel tanks and to discharge this fuel at the inlet to the main feed pump ( s ) . Ejector pumps are used for this purpose and the motive flow for these scavenge devices may be taken from the feed pump outlet if other motive sources are not available . Note : Most of above material are from : Langton , R. ( 2009 ) . Aircraft fuel systems . Chichester , U.K Wiley .
At first , I was tempted to close the question as a duplicate , but then I could not find one that would address the point directly . But there are many questions and answers on this site which allow one to cobble together the answer : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> To save you to read through all linked answers , here is the gist of it : Jet engines are run at close to their maximum power during cruise , but their thrust is much less at altitude due to lower air density . Airliners want to fly as high as possible to fly faster for the same drag and to gain efficiency , and their designs are balanced to achieve reasonable take-off distances and good cruise performance at close to maximum thrust .
end question
start question
How precise are altimeters ?
While Accuracy and Precision are closely related , they 're not the same thing . In the context of your question both are important : Accuracy In the US altimeters are broadly required to comply with <URL> limits for accuracy ( technically this is regulatory for IFR flight , but TSO 'd " sensitive altimeters " will generally meet these requirements - at least when they left the factory - and that 's what you 're going to find in most aircraft ) . The accuracy requirements provided in FAR 43 are based on mechanical altimeters , and are subject to a number of requirements ( friction error limits , hysterisis limits , etc. ) , but the test tables there are a good guide to the accuracy of " typical " altimeters . Also note that the accuracy of sensitive altimeters depends on the pressure setting the pilot enters ( an incorrect pressure setting could mean substantial error ) . In " the flight levels " everyone uses the same standard altimeter setting ( 29.92 inches of mercury / 1013 millibars ) to avoid this issue ( similarly the ATC transponder transmits an altitude assuming a pressure of 29.92 inches of mercury - ATC 's computers correct that value based on local altimeter settings as required ) . Depending on the design digital altimeters may also be immune to some of the accuracy-affecting issues in an analog/mechanical altimeter - for example a solid-state digital altimeter should not suffer from " friction error " as there 's no rotating/moving shaft involved . Precision Analog altimeters are " reasonably precise " -- take this example : The tick marks are every 20 feet . One could easily eyeball 20 foot increments , and even 10 foot increments ( with the pointer directly between two ticks ) . Similarly the pressure settings are marked every 0.02 inches of mercury ( or 1mb ) , allowing for a fairly precise setting of the value . Digital altimeters are extremely precise ( often offering one-foot precision in their display , and 0.01 inches of mercury for the pressure setting ) . I believe the precision requirements for altimeter markings are specified in the relevant TSOs , but I do n't have those documents handy . In both cases the precision of the markings can exceed the accuracy of the device : At 10,000 feet the FARs allow an 80 foot tolerance , and whether your measurement is presented as a needle position ( roughly to the nearest 10 feet ) or a number ( to the nearest foot ) you could still be 79 feet higher or lower than you " think " you are and be " within tolerance " . So , combining all of this together - If we have two aircraft flying along indicating the same altitude ( say 10,000 feet ) and both altimeters are perfect there will be zero feet of vertical separation between them ( the static ports of each aircraft will be at the exact same altitude ) . On the other hand if both aircraft are at the outer edge of tolerance ( one +80 ft , one -80 ft ) there will be 160 feet of vertical separation between them ( discounting visual " slop " in the analog altimeter and assuming the pointer is perfectly on the line and the pressure setting is perfectly dialed in ) . ( In either case the answer would be " WAY TOO CLOSE ! " )
As a tower controller , in case of an unexpected unusual situation for an aircraft on final approach , this will be my list of priorities : Clear the runway of other traffic Determine if fire and rescue services need to get involved ( Call fire and rescue services ) Call approach and ask them to stop inbound traffic . In case of other traffic on final behind the emergency , coordinate missed approaches Instruct other aircraft on final to go around , in accordance with the coordination with approach The above points will take me no more than 30 seconds to get through . This takes care of the most immediate priorities . I will then await the landing of the emergency plane , and coordinate with fire and rescue as appropriate . As for departing traffic on the ground - aircraft on their gate will be instructed to stay there . Aircraft taxiing to the runway will either continue to the runway holding point or be turned around to a gate , if available - this depends on whether I expect the runway to be closed for a long time ( say , more than 20 minutes ) . The same , more or less , applies to VFR traffic in the control zone intending to land . They can hold in the air if I expect to reopen the runway shortly , otherwise they might have to find an alternate ; I will coordinate any diversions with approach . Once I have a hold of my own traffic , I will call the operational supervisor and inform them of the situation . They will take care of stopping additional inbound traffic if required , and coordinating with adjacent units and sectors . I might also call approach again directly to let them know how the situation is developing . It will be up to approach , in cooperation with the supervisor and based on the information I provide , to determine if aircraft on initial approach should be diverted , or if they can hold in the air awaiting a runway reopening . Each individual aircraft will require individual handling , to determine if , where and how they want to divert . Once the runway is reopened ( after fire and rescue have finished their work , the emergency airplane has been removed , runway inspection carried out and so on ) , I will coordinate with approach and the supervisor to start inbound traffic again ( possibly with a reduced rate ) , and start getting my own departures rolling again . As you can see , there are a lot of " if 's " in the above . A lot of decisions have to be made , and the basis for making said decisions changes depending on the situation . There is no set checklist or rulebook for when something like this happens , because the required actions will vary . But that is what we get paid for after all - as an air traffic controller you have to be creative and flexible , especially when unusual situations occur .
This depends on the airport but at <URL> where I used to fly there was a $ 5 landing fee ( paid to the city of Philadelphia ) that was collected at the FBO ( where I rented the plane from ) when I paid for the rental . I think if you do not pass through an FBO they will hunt the tail number down and send a bill to the party that has the aircraft registered . Its tough to fly into an airport and not pass through the FBO ( unless you are just doing touch and goes ) . I would assume that for commercial traffic the airline/owning body pays and may even be billed by the airport monthly but I do n't know the specifics I only know what I have seen for GA traffic . If you are curious you can check out the Philadelphia Airport ( KPHL and KPNE ) <URL> which outlines the various fess and collection mechanisms the city imparts . Keep in mind these are city owned airports , see section V for details on collection but in short , Section V Part d Non-tenant Air Carriers and Operators not providing adequate surety or security in form and amount satisfactory to the Department of Commerce , to ensure payment of fees and charges , shall be required to pay all incurred fees and charges prior to aircraft departure . For the point of contrast lets take a small privately owned airport here in the US , <URL> in NJ has <URL> for parking and the such , but like most small airports like this , these fees are waved with the purchase of fuel ( usually at least some minimum amount ) . There would be no way to avoid paying ( well Im sure there is ) since usually the only way off the tarmac is through the FBO .
When I went through USAF pilot training ... Useful ? Absolutely invaluable . Many of our instructors had experience before " real " simulators were used in training . All of them commented on how obviously better we were on our very first actual flight . We had " cockpit familiarization " trainers . This looked like a cockpit , sat still on the floor , had all the switches but all they did was switch . They did nothing . We practiced " switchology " , checklists , and so forth . Beyond required time and tasks in this thing we could spend free time playing around with these . Not unlike checking out a book from the library . The above are very useful because it kept the " real " simulators available for actual flight training . We had quite a few hours in this simulator before we got in a real airplane . And simulator training continued throughout the year in flight school . But this does not give them the physical feel of controlling the airplane Yes it does . But as we got more expert in the aircraft , flying every day , sometimes twice a day , we could tell the difference . But the simulator feel was quite good and in no way did it hinder acquiring the touch for precision , when in formation for example .
As far as the FAA is concerned , it 's just an airspace violation . There is a restricted area over the center/base that extends up to 5000 feet . This is active continuously . There are other restricted areas that extend up to ' unlimited ' that are " Intermittent by NOTAM normally 24 HRS in advance . " So high altitude traffic is not impacted by the continuous restriction and when there is a launch the restriction is published by NOTAM in advance . This gives ATC the ability to route traffic around the area without any significant impact . Since the safety area extends out into international airspace , the FAA ca n't control it as restricted airspace . They have been defined as FAR 91.143 airspace , which states : § 91.143 Flight limitation in the proximity of space flight operations . When a Notice to Airmen ( NOTAM ) is issued in accordance with this section , no person may operate any aircraft of U.S. registry , or pilot any aircraft under the authority of an airman certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration , within areas designated in a NOTAM for space flight operation except when authorized by ATC . So violation of the NOTAMed airspace is a violation of 91.143 . In my experience ( 5 years working launch ops ) the issue usually arises with GA aircraft that want to watch . If someone enters the area , ATC will try to contact them by radio . There are also helicopters and or plane that can intercept and escort the aircraft clear . Space Shuttle launches had the largest contingent of aircraft . Some small booster ops might have one helo or a King Air to deal with intruders . The aircraft can also be used to get the attention of boats in the area . Whether you scrub a launch or not depend on the launch window . I 've seen them range from a few minutes to several hours . A violator at the wrong time will cause a scrub with a short window , while you can handle the delay with a larger window .
The receiver has to be programmed . It 's important to remember that A429 is a unidirectional hard-wired bus with a single transmitter and multiple receivers . Each connection is physically unique and the reason for all the pin-out diagrams and bus definitions in the ARINC Characteristics . To help with data integrity and fault detection , each transmitter includes Label 377 on the bus which contains its equipment ID . For each type of equipment , the label assignments and coding are fixed . So , if you 're building an LRU that 's receiving GPS data , you would program the port assigned as the GPS # 1 Input to verify the equipment code is 00B hex and the find the specific labels your LRU needs ( it 's likely to be a small subset of all data on the bus ) . Since you know the source LRU and the Labels you 're looking for , you know the individual label coding and can program the receiver to decode the data . Most avionics companies have developed custom ASICs to act as the A429 UART . It simplifies the design and saves costs .
On a light aircraft , the answer is somewhat similar to the mechanism you might be used to in a RC aircraft . The image below shows the important parts - a hinged flap and a " control rod " which is attached to an electric actuator . <URL> This is controlled internally by a simple switch <URL> ( Both images source : <URL> ) By looking at the actuator of a Cessna 172 , it clearly only has one linkage , which implies there is one per flap - and it is situated within the wing . <URL> ( Image source : <URL> )
Altimeters are calibrated to a standard atmosphere model ( International Standard Atmosphere , <URL> ) . What the altimeter shows you is the vertical distance between the altitude equivalent to your current pressure ( pressure altitude ) and a reference " pressure altitude " . The reference pressure altitude is set in pressure units ( hPa or In . Hg ) on the altimeter subscale . This is known as the " altimeter setting " , set in the " altimeter setting window " . Image credit : <URL> Flying at lower altitudes ( below " transition altitude " ) , the altimeter is set to airport/regional QNH , which is a pressure calculated so that if you were standing on the measurement point , the altimeter would indicate your exact elevation . At other altitudes , it would approximate altitude above mean sea level , although it would show incorrectly if temperature differed from ISA . Above transition altitude , the altimeter is set to QNE , or standard pressure ( 1013.25 hPa , or 29.92 In . Hg ) . The altimeter will now only indicate correctly if both temperature and pressure are in accordance with ISA . You are now flying on " flight level " ( where the FL is your QNE indication in hundreds of feet , ie 20,000 ft = FL200 ) . For the purpose of avoiding obstacles , both QNH and QNE have to be corrected using various methods , which are described in various manuals . ( QNH for temperature , QNE for both temperature and pressure , both for other possible factors such as wind etc ) . For instance , this diagram shows three different aircraft , all flying the same pressure altitude , but with three different true altitudes : Image credit : <URL> However , altitude is also used for the purpose of traffic separation , and for this purpose , neither QNH or QNE is corrected . This might sound counter-intuitive , but as long as your altimeter is showing the same error as any conflicting traffic , you can be safely separated , therefore : The altitude shown on the altimeter is not corrected at all ( except by calibration for possible aerodynamic interference , such as compressibility , venturi-effects etc ) . In technically sophisticated aircraft , barometric altitude input is used for vertical navigation . Since vertical navigation is concerned with the true altitude of the aircraft , the aircrafts Air Data Computer ( ADC ) will calculated a true altitude based on information available to it ( either through sensors , or through pilot input ) . The true altitude is however , as stated , not shown on the pilots primary flight instruments .
Here are a few ideas : First and foremost , we 're not handling metals here . Composites have the advantage of being able to be made stronger by adding on a few layers around high-stress area like windows . This was difficult with metals since this needed some sort of fasteners or adhesives to do . This reinforcement is seen in the photo below . The windows are designed to keep an even pressure all around in the context of the fuselage shape at that point . You 'll notice the flange design which keeps the fuselage shape and stop it from popping open . This is a little like the thicker part of a bottle neck . This is very difficult ( if possible ) to do well in a metal fuselage to this extent . <URL> The usage is completely different . Concorde was a commercial aircraft , intended for many years of operation . This is a very low-cycle aircraft which will see a fraction of that flying . The number of pressurisation cycles is a lot lower , putting much less force on the windows . As for safety , the style of flying is completely different . Probably flown by test pilots , the aircraft might never even experience rain and will fly under very predictable conditions , with very few flight cycles . Periods of elevated temperatures gradually degrades many materials , this is much less a concern with short flights . If I gather correctly this is the main issue with sustained high-speed flight , as seen on Concorde and SR-71 and other aircraft . <URL> Composites have a lot lower thermal expansion ( CFRP vs. Aluminium is an order of magnitude lower ) which reduces issues with expansion in the fuselage . Concorde was a commercial aircraft with weight and operating price in mind . This aircraft is built for this purpose , with the windows considered as a main feature from the start . You could probably have been able to make the windows a lot larger on Concorde , at the unacceptable price of weight , production and operating cost . Needless to say that knowledge of materials and structures has advanced substantially , all our these features can be modelled in detail on computers , not necessitating the traditional conservative approach . As for redundancy , predecessor SpaceShipOne had double pane windows and double seals everywhere . For the passengers without suits , if a window were to blow entirely , you 're most probably out of luck .
The <URL> of FAAviation News ( now <URL> ) has a detailed article on owner-produced parts , including advice on best practices if you want to make your own parts . It does confirm that owners have very broad authority to do so , provided that they document everything properly . Typical reasons for producing your own parts are ( I 've paraphrased them from the article here ) : The aircraft has been out of production for years The aircraft is an orphan without a Type Certificate There is no technical support because the aircraft is so old There may be long delays in getting parts from the manufacturer The price of official parts is extremely high As for requirements of the part itself , the article list four characteristics that a part must have : The part must be properly designed The part must be produced to conform to the design The part 's production must be properly documented The part must be properly maintained The owner must be involved in the production but does n't actually have to do the manufacturing himself : The aircraft owner must participate in the manufacture of the part in at least one of five ways for it to be considered an Owner Produced Part . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the design or performance data . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the materials . The owner provides the manufacturer with fabrication processes or assembly methods . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with quality control procedures . The owner personally supervises the manufacture of the new part . More recently , in the September 2014 edition of the <URL> magazine , <URL> has an article on replacement parts that calls the current regulations on owner produced parts " extremely liberal " : " Owner-produced parts " do not require a PMA . These are parts produced by an aircraft owner for use on his own aircraft , and not offered for sale . There is an FAA letter of interpretation that sets forth precisely what an owner 's involvement must be to qualify a part as " owner-produced , " and it is extremely liberal . The owner need not actually manufacture the part himself , so long as he provides specifications or materials or supervision or some other meaningful participation in the part 's production . Unfortunately , he did n't mention exactly which letter of interpretation covers these parts but the FAA magazine article refers to an " FAA Memorandum dated August 5 , 1993 " and I guess it 's probably the same one . I was n't able to find it on the <URL> .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau recently published a comprehensive research paper on reported stall warnings in high capacity aircraft - <URL> The report says that 30 % of all stall warnings were false . Note that stall warnings are n't limited to the stick shaker . The report says that of all reported stick shaker events , 16 % were false warnings . Have a read of it , you 'll find lots of interesting bits of information .
For an application that were controlling a hobbyist UAV one could use something like the Google Maps API . It provides services and data that will scale as the user scrolls in and out and as the UAV transitions to different areas . It also has the advantage of having visual and road data as an option . The downside is that unless you download enough data ahead of time you must have some sort of data connection to the application . But , with the greater availability of the fast cell based data connections this is becoming less of an issue .
As you 've guessed , there are two options : a ferry flight , or shipping the aircraft in a container . Ferry flights are quite common ; the recent <URL> in the Pacific was a ferry flight to Hawaii . As well as planning a suitable route and dealing with permits and paperwork , refueling etc. , the ferry company may install <URL> to give more range , and provide the pilot with specialized survival and communications gear . And an airline ticket home , of course :-) This might all seem expensive , but considering that a new top-of-the-range Cirrus SR22 has a <URL> of almost USD 800,000 you can imagine that ferry costs are n't necessarily a big deal in comparison . The second option is to put the aircraft in a container and ship it , and there are <URL> who specialize in this ( the page has some small photos of aircraft in containers ) . The major concern in this case is removing the wings : gliders and many experimental ( e.g. home-built ) aircraft are designed to have their wings removed for storage and transportation ( towing behind your car ) but most typical Cessnas , Beechcraft etc. are n't . You need to have the aircraft professionally and carefully prepared and then re-assembled and checked after delivery . Which option is best depends on the costs of each option and the value of the aircraft . There 's also the consideration that if you buy a 60-year old aircraft from the other side of the world , ferry companies may decline to fly it to you because of the risks of subjecting it to the stresses and weather of a very long series of flights . Or their/your insurance company may refuse cover for a ferry flight for the same reason . Or perhaps the aircraft is certified for VFR only , which would make a long ferry journey much more difficult to plan and execute . In those cases , container shipping may be the only available option .
This differs from airline to airline , at a large ME carrier the staff is divided in groups based on their personality . People from each group are randomly assigned to flights . Then there is a list where you 're at a certain position , with each flight you take you move one spot higher on the list . The higher you are on this list the more they will take your preference for a flight into account . Lets say that this list has 7 positions , once you 've hit the top you are moved back to the bottom of this list . Then with each flight you 're going one step up in the list again . So after each 7 flights you have the flight of your preference . But say that you 're almost at the bottom and file a preference for a very unpopular flight then you have a high change they will schedule you on that flight .
The ILS is <URL> . The ground based bits The vertical range is 1.4 ° ( 0.7 ° above glideslope , 0.7 ° below ) and the horizontal varies , but is a maximum of 6 ° wide . What this means in terms of how many feet or meters off the centerline an aircraft is varies depending on where the aircraft is on the approach , but it 's generally correct to say that the closer an aircraft gets to the ILS antennae , the more precise the system is . The specifications for a localizer antenna require that it be no less precise than ± 10.5 m - this is for a Cat I approach , and it gets correspondingly more precise as the category increases . There 's always the risk of interference with the transmitters ; as noted in the comments , accidents have been caused by airport vehicles parked in the ILS critical area , interfering with the signals , and as the equipment ages it can require recalibration . The airborne bits It 's possible for receivers to have issues that could affect precision ; antennas can get loose connections or become covered in ice , while pilots might interpret indications incorrectly , misread reverse sensing , or <URL> . Regarding accidents You 're correct - there are many accidents related to landing operations . That said , you may be including those which were n't flying an ILS approach - it 's hard to say since you are n't citing anything . Still , it 's possible that there 's confusion between navigation precision and safety of flight . Many ( not all ) of landing accidents involving instrument approaches do center around human error rather than equipment failure ; pilots tuning in the wrong frequency or incorrectly setting avionics and instruments ( reversing the inbound course on an HSI causes reverse sensing , that sort of thing ) , or people on the ground screwing up .
Depending on where you are it will take around 4 hours to 3 days , if the location is know . Depending on how remote your location is , and if the SAR team knows your location ( Sometimes forgotten by pilots after a emergency landing . ) . If the location is n't known , the search can take up to 2 weeks , finding you and your passengers dead . Let 's say temperature is -10 degrees Celsius , it will take around 1-3 hours without any clothing or external heat source ( like a camp-fire ) to start hypothermia . Although the critical point of Hypothermia is 25 degrees Celsius , people survived 14 degrees Celsius . The best thing you can do during this plane crash is stay closely together and if possible start a camp-fire . Drink hot water ( just take some ice and put it on the fire ) with a lot of sugar ( or anything else that gives you energy ) and just do anything to keep yourself heated until help arrives . If possible , keep the navigation lights , strobe lights on of the plane until battery runs out of fuel . This increases the chance being found in time .
I reached out to the <URL> and asked this question . To my surprise , I got an answer back in less than 12 hours . As of December 31 , 2014 , they report : 219 private pilots 951 commercial pilots 4007 ATPL holders 20 MCPL holders For a total of 5197 pilots licensed in Hong Kong .
The key in holding the same speed as your wingman or the other aircraft is not to find the " perfect " throttle position , the key is to slightly adjust the throttle . When you look at cockpit-videos of those formation pilots ( like <URL> - move the camera to the throttle , it 's a 360-degree video ) , you can see that they are constantly moving the throttle . They almost never stick the throttle at one position . In that way , they can slightly adjust the speed and stay in formation with the wingman for a long time . While flying in close formation at high speed , it 's the same . Little adjustments of the throttle helps the pilot to keep the same speed as the wingman-aircraft . Flaps are not used in high-speed-flying because they can only operate below a maximum speed , otherwise they could get damaged . By using the air-brake , the handling of the aircraft changes , therefore the air-brake is not used very often while flying in formation . tl ; dr : Skill
Runways are usually numbered according to their direction , more precisely called runway magnetic bearing or QFU ( <URL> ) . Consider a plane flying toward the runway on final approach in a day without any wind . Divide its magnetic heading by 10 , round it to the nearest whole number and you 'll usually get the runway number . For example , if the magnetic heading is 345 ° then 345/10 = 34,5 , so the runway number will be 35 which will be a runway used for landings ( and takeoffs ) to the north . Opposite ends of the same runway have different numbers , 18 ( which represents 180 degrees ) apart . A runway with 35 for landings to the north will have runway 17 for landings to the south . Even though these are the same strip of concrete , they are treated as separate runways by pilots and controllers . If there are two airports near one another with runways at the same angle , sometimes one of the airports will add or subtract one from the runway number to help planes differentiate between the airports . Occasionally a runway number will change when the magnetic declination angle changes in such amount , making the runway magnetic bearing divided by 10 and rounded to the nearest whole number increase or decrease . Some runways in areas of large magnetic declination use true instead of magnetic headings for the runway numbers . This is not unusual in northern Canada and Greenland . When there is more than one parallel runway at an airport , L , R , or C may be appended to the runway number for Left , Right , or Center . These are based on the approach direction , so , for example , the runway 35L would be called 17R from the opposite direction .
I found a <URL> from 2007 that analyzed TCAS performance . They analyzed recorded data to come up with 1 RA per 116 flight hours . Over this time period , monitoring took place for approximately 190 days , and roughly 200,000 Mode S flight hours were observed within the sensor 's 60 nmi coverage area . We observed a total of 1725 RA events , corresponding to an average of 9 RAs per day , or approximately one RA every 116 flight hours . They explain that the data was taken in the Boston area , so the high amount of traffic contributes to the high number of RAs . <URL> on Airliners.net suggest differently , at least in the sense that for those pilots it is a matter of a few over years , depending on where they typically fly .
end question
start question
Why a parachute for aerobatics only when carrying a passenger ?
Well , as with many issues involving the FAA , the " why " is a bit of a mystery . Perhaps they thought that the pilot can " lead by example " if a bail-out is needed . I 'd imagine that a lot of passengers would be a little reluctant to jump out of an airplane , but once they see the pilot go I can see them becoming highly motivated ! As far as not needing the parachute if only crew members are on board , the FAA has long held the view that they are n't protecting pilots from doing stupid things to themselves since they are knowledgeable and informed , but their regulations are to protect the " general public " , or the passengers in this case , who do n't know any better .
If your parachute fails to open entirely you are almost certainly extremely dead no matter where you land , however occasionally people do survive . A partial failure of a chute is much more survivable . You will be coming down much faster than you would with a good chute , and you are going to get injured , probably badly . Think broken legs and arms with neck or back trauma . You may sustain a concussion as well , and you will certainly go into shock . If you come down in the water you will be injured and unable to keep yourself afloat , and it will be much harder to rescue you . On land help will be much closer and , and as <URL> , you ca n't drown on land . Land has features which may help you survive : trees , vegetation , hay bales , crops , snow , and many other things may cushion your impact enough to make the difference between life and death . Water is the same wherever you go , and does n't have nearly enough give to cushion an impact .
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
Systems vary . Transport aircraft and larger biz aircraft have airpacks handling the AC and at flight idle power settings there is less bleed air , and pressurization is a priority . The packs simply do not have full power when in a flight idle descent on many aircraft . The aircraft I routinely fly have separate radial compressor driven refrigerant systems , and have large heat loads from onboard electronics and laser systems . They have to remain cool , and normally both AC systems are left on until just prior to engine shutoff after taxi . If it is a hot environment , we use the APU and keep the AC on after engine shutdown . Once again , the situation is different in different aircraft , and is dependent upon the cooling system , the power plants , the installations and the design and operational goals . Addendum # 1 : Some aircraft APUs can provide bleed air for cabin pressurization , but this is not universal . Also , some aircraft , such as the 787 do not use engine bleed air for pressurization , and rather use electrical compressors . The flow of pressurized air is rather constant in flight .
It is called a <URL> and I do n't think that any of the present generation large commercial aircraft use them . That said , a number of older commercial aircraft have used them , a good example being the Sud Caravelle . <URL> Image from eu.airliners.net There are some issues with using drogue chutes in a commercial airliner , which would limit their effectiveness . Most commercial airliners have thrust reversers already . For it to be effective , the parachute has to be quite huge . For example , the Handley Page Victor , which had MTOW in the range of A320 , had a drogue chute 48 ' ( or 14.6 m ) in diameter . The chute would occupy volume and increase weight . If drogue chutes are used , they have to be packed before every flight , which will increase turnaround times . Another option is to replace them at the end of every deployment , which would increase costs . Deployment failure/partial deployment/Uncommanded deployment will affect the safety of the flight . The need to use a drogue chute can limit the crosswind landing of the airliner significantly . Aircraft dragging a huge chute during taxiing back to the ramp is not a good idea from FoD point of view .
The short answer is , when the surrounding environment requires it . The procedure here is perhaps most akin to a short field take off over a 50 ft obstacle but a few things are going on . The aircraft , as soon as it leaves the ground is climbing at <URL> . Vx is the speed for best angle of climb while Vy is the speed for best rate of climb . In your linked video its mostly for show . In practice short field over a 50ft obstacle takeoffs are used for , well , short fields ... or when you need to get off the ground fast so as to get over some obstacle at the end of the runway . Generally speaking most commercial airports have long runways that are more or less obstacle free ( <URL> ) so short field maneuvers are not what they are in general aviation . There are lots of small fields all over the country that have trees ( also known as 50 foot obstacles ) power lines , buildings , church steeples or any manner of obstacle at the end of the runway . On top of that many of these strips are on the shorter side ( under 3000 ft. ) so you simply have less runway to work with and your margins can be far smaller . <URL> It is the pilots responsibility to operate the aircraft safely and these kinds of maneuvers are well within operating limitations . In small planes they happen more often than you would think , especially if <URL> . and even us lowly private pilots are trained in short field 50ft obstacle clearance maneuvers . As for the big guys if the airport environment calls for it , it may be performed but I would think it is less common as most commercial airliners can pitch up far more than people in the back would be happy with . Someone with more commercial experience may be able to elaborate on how often they happen in practice there . There are a few things to keep in mind as well , military planes simply have a much higher thrust to weight ratio than commercial airliners and can in some cases sustain vertical climb outs . Military jets also often have afterburners for an added boost . The commercial planes you see in the linked video are more than likely lightly loaded carrying only a partial fuel load . <URL>
At that point it was indeed the flaps extending in preparation of takeoff ( you can see them moving through the rain ) . You would typically also be able to hear the cargo doors closing ( before the plane starts taxiing ) and the engines ramping up as you start to take off ( <URL> in the same video ) .
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
Airframe parachutes are becoming an increasingly popular option on newly-certificated aircraft , thanks in part to the track record of successful deployments on Cirrus aircraft . If I had to speculate on why they 're not showing up in older certificated designs ( like the Piper PA-28 or the Cessna 172 &amp; 182 ) I 'd go with the reason I mentioned in my comment : " New " Pipers and Cessnas are basically extended manufacturing runs of very old designs - going on 50 + years . Changing an existing aircraft design to include the required hardpoints , breakaway panels , etc. for a parachute system would be a substantial change to the type certificate , and under Part 23 certification rules doing so would cost the manufacturer an equally-substantial sum of money for the design , engineering , and testing required . Light GA aircraft sales at the moment are , shall we say , lackluster -- the additional costs for the engineering , the type certificate update , and the parachute itself would certainly not help matters , as that cost would need to be passed along to the eventual purchaser of parachute-equipped aircraft ( which would probably mean putting a 50 + year old classic Piper or Cessna design in the same price category as a clean-sheet Cirrus SR20/SR22 ) . In addition to the mainly-financial reasons above <URL> has a point regarding weight . <URL> . This kit costs about 80 pounds of useful load , and on many light GA aircraft the useful load is marginal enough that this added weight means you 're effectively sacrificing a passenger to the installation . The Cessna retrofit kit also takes up a substantial amount of space in the baggage compartment <URL> , which is certainly a negative factor as well . Were the chute to be incorporated into the design by Cessna it would likely be installed in a similar location ( there just are n't many other places to put it ) with a similar cost in weight and cargo space .
The majority of the heat developed during reentry of a space-vehicle comes from air compression not friction . Remember , to go into space , you do n't have to go very high , but to orbit you will have to <URL> , and it 's not the fall that produces the heat , it 's the slowing down part . If you had a human fall without a chute , the <URL> ( where air resistance cancels gravity and you continue downward at a constant speed ) would be around 100-200 mph , not nearly enough to cause any kind of heat ( or cars would burn up by going normal cruising speeds ) . To get higher terminal velocities , you 'd have to go a lot higher , where the air is a lot less dense , higher than any skydiver have , and as far as I can tell <URL> did not experience any incineration during his jump . The unfortunate skydiver will almost certainly die , but there 'd definitely be a body , and it 'll probably be in one piece .
Generally the planes are scrapped by a <URL> . The parts will either be removed and sold as spares , or chopped up and recycled or disposed of . So a lot will depend on how easy it is to remove the part , and how much of a market there is for it . Airplanes are disassembled to a large extent during heavy checks , which can provide an opportunity for substituting in spares . Engines : Probably the most valuable part of the airplane . These will be removed and either used as whole spares or for spare parts , depending on the condition and how many of the type are still in service . Cockpit instruments : These will be removed and used as spares as well , if there is enough of a market ( everyone wants those <URL> these days ) . Interiors : These may be removed as well , they can be used as spares . Control surfaces : These can be removed and used as spares as well . Windows : These can be removed and reused . Systems : Pumps , electronics , lights , actuators , etc. : Most of these can be removed and sold as spares . Landing gear : This can also be removed and reused , depending on the number of cycles it already has . Tires : The tires may be reused if not worn out . The <URL> may not be reused . Airframe : Although some parts may be able to be used , generally the effort and the fact that there are probably many cycles on the part will prevent much from being used as-is . The metal will be chopped up as scrap . They are already working on recycling major <URL> as well , since manufacturing scrap is already being created . <URL> , with modern recycling processes , the metal , plastic , wires/electronics , and carbon fiber composites are used for : 15 % High-grade industrial 50 % Low-grade industrial 35 % Landfill As it often is with business charts , it 's not clear if these are by weight , volume , or what . <URL> claims to recycle 90 % of the weight of an aircraft . There are of course cases like <URL> where the plane is donated to some institution , but this does n't happen to most planes . There are also ways that airplane parts find <URL> .
Generally , sweep makes the wing less efficient in creating lift and complicates structural design . Therefore , aircraft designers try to use as little sweep as they can get away with . However , <URL> onset of <URL> and allows jet aircraft to improve their maximum transport performance ( the product of speed and payload ) . <URL> both help to fly faster , but backward sweep is preferred because it makes stalling less dangerous , improves <URL> and allows to make the wing lighter . The shortest take-off distance will be achieved with zero sweep - if it were not for the need to limit compressibility effects , sweep would only be used in tailless aircraft . The main factor for choosing wing sweep is the desired <URL> , and Mach 0.85 has become the de-facto standard . Other factors are : Relative wing thickness : A thicker wing needs more sweep , because thickness adds its own compressibility effects . Maximum local Mach number of the airfoil where recompression is shock-free : So-called <URL> help to reduce sweep , and older designs ( before the A310 ) had generally more sweep because their critical Mach number would had been lower at equal sweep . Regulations have nothing to do with it , only engineering determines the sweep angle . Since the design cruise Mach number is <URL> at Mach 0.85 for long-range airliners , the sweep angle of different aircraft is very similar . Regional jets normally fly a little slower to improve fuel efficiency , and their sweep angle is less than that of their big , long-range cousins .
I always track my flights , so here is my experience : App using offline maps As it has been said , you will need an app which can download maps prior to the flight . I never had a flight with onboard wifi , but I guess , there 's usually a data volume constraint , which could make it expensive . I use <URL> ( Android ) , which is an offline navigation system for cars etc. . The maps can be obtained from within the app , the user has the choice between free maps from the <URL> project and TomTom maps , which you have to pay . The maps can be downloaded per country , and big maps are subdivided into smaller pieces . For example , the very detailed map for Germany is divided into four parts , together about 0.8 GB of data . The entire USA can be downloaded per state , all together 1.7 GB . It 's possible to configure several fields at the bottom of the screen to display speed , altitude , GPS coordinates , distance to destination and so on . I mainly use this app to explore a country ( e.g. by car ) on vacation , but it 's also fun to use it on board to see what 's that location below us . You may switch off speed camera warning . I once got a warning over Switzerland . The 840km/h were well above the max speed limit of 120km/h , and the fine should have been in the order of seizing all property of the airline . For some reason , the pilot did n't care ... OK , lots of advantages , but there 's also a drawback : The app can not just record your flight , though a menu for tracking exists . Nor can it display your currently covered track . It can only record a track when it 's navigating you , but you do n't want to hear " turn around ! turn around ! " all the time ... Tracking app Again , there should be thousands of apps out there . I 'm using <URL> , which can also display your position / track on an online map . So , you just see a point moving on a gray screen while flying . However , this app allows to record your track , with up to one point per second , and at the end , you can export it as GPX file , which is the standard . It can be opened by many map tools , also by googles MyMaps or what it 's called . The file contains coordinates , precision , time , altitude , speed , number of satellites and course . One hint : This app makes a sanity check between speed reported by the GPS module and speed calculated from recorded points . If this fails , it does n't display/record any speed . This often happens onboard , so switch this check off . Here is a flight from Düsseldorf ( DUS ) to Las Palmas , Gran Canaria ( LPA ) , including altitude profile , drawn with Marble ( Linux KDE program ) : <URL> Precision An airliner is usually made of aluminum , which makes it a huge faraday 's cage . The reception of any radio waves is very limited ( through the windows ) , and so is GPS . And as GPS needs a line of sight to several satellites spread as much as possible over the entire sky , the only chance is to have a window seat . There , I usually get a very good GPS signal , while it 's already very bad to unusable on the next seat , and do n't even think about it on the aisle seat . Having a window seat , I usually get a good signal . While taxiing , the precision is quite good , as on this flight from Frankfurt ( FRA ) : <URL> Of course , the strength and accuracy of the GPS signal relies on the quality of the GPS module of your phone . My last phone was n't so good , I often had jumps of several 100m sidewards , or from 7000m to 10000m altitude . This is just because accuracy comes with the number of satellites , which usually increases with altitude . And : The first aim of GPS is to locate your position , the altitude usually is less important . With my current phone , I do n't see such problems . No sudden steps aside , and altitude and speed were quite the same as displayed on the entertainment system . Well , not entirely . I noticed my phone showing an altitude about 50m too high when landing on my last flight . The 20m shown by the entertainment system were plausible , as the airport was nearly on sea level / in the sea . But the too high altitude was still there , even at the beach . Keep in mind the earth is n't a sphere , it 's an ellipsoid , though even that 's not correct , it 's more like a potato . So , sea level is n't the same everywhere . High quality/price GPS receivers know this and contain data to compensate it , but cheap ones just use the ellipsoid model . ( However , 50m is nothing during flight , and what do you expect from a phone inside the cabin ... ) More hints For a working GPS , the receiver needs a list of all GPS satellites and their precise orbits ( " almanach " ) , current time and its rough position . If it does not have its rough position , it takes much more time to get a fix ( first GPS position ) . And if it does n't have a recent almanach , it has to listen to the satellites for a while , as they slowly broadcast it . As reception of radio signals is quite difficult inside the cabin , it may be very hard to get a fix , and even impossible to get the almanach . So , it 's good practice to prepare your phone before the flight , as
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
Some useful texts are <URL> by Cockrell , <URL> by Lingard , and the Parachute Recovery Systems Design Manual by Knacke . The Lingard and Cockrell papers both have extensive references that are worth pursuing . The Knacke manual is , as far as I know , only available in hardcopy . It seems that the designers of modern sport ram-air parachutes and paragliders are more concerned with protecting trade secrets than they are in publishing research . The paragliding side of the aisle is a bit more willing to share . There is an online <URL> , and there are several open source paraglider CAD software packages available .
To the best of my knowledge , all commercial aircraft being tested have their pilots take on parachutes and hi-vis clothing in addition to creating a possible means of egress on all important flights , such as the first flight and high-speed tests . Since getting the cabin doors open is practically difficult , the solution I think most producers use is to built a chute down the front cargo entrance which can open . Bombardier produced a <URL> for their new CSeries . Here 's the solution employed on the Concorde : <URL>
For the Cirrus at least , it sounds like that the odds are that the plane will be a loss . Thus far of 53 CAP deployments , only " 9 CAPS Planes that Were Repaired and Flew Again " Revision A7 of the Cirrus SR22 POH currently states " CAPS deployment is expected to result in damage to the airframe " that updates the earlier language that " The system is intended to saves the lives of the occupants but will most likely destroy the aircraft . " <URL>
As you have intimated in the question , how hard you hit the ground is very dependent on a number of factors . When I did my training to jump using a classical tethered round chute we practiced landing from a platform of about 5 feet , so six is perhaps a hard landing . That 's , roughly , hitting the ground at 12mph . Folks like the Red Devils typically use an parafoil chute . Basically a self inflating wing . These can be steered and pitched upward to bring the trooper to a stall or even go up if they have enough forward velocity . So yes , you will often see them stop in mid-air and step down . This means this type of parachute has NO equivalent jump height . In fact if flown incorrectly you can crash into the ground at serious speeds . <URL> Regular " military style " parachutes provide no control over lift and only minor control over direction . With these your descent rate is totally dependent on size , weight and air quality . <URL> Interestingly , with a regular chute , what makes landings " harder " is not so much the effective height but the amount of horizontal velocity . You are trained to drop and roll when you hit the ground to absorb the impact . <URL> This works great if you have any horizontal velocity to help you initiate the roll . If however you are coming straight down it 's not so easy . . and your knees end up in your chest ... as I found out the one and only time I jumped out of an aging Cessna . Too much horizontal velocity and that roll gets rather violent .
Best case scenario : You 're straight and level , on frequency with some form of human being , there 's no immediate danger and you have the know-how to transmit . In that case , that human will provide you with everything they possibly can to help you . Most important thing for you to do is keep the aircraft away from clouds , away from terrain and not panic . You 'll probably be in an aircraft that is more-or-less easy to fly in this situation . Most GA aircraft are quite stable and will not be a beast to control . Once talking to ATC they will tell you to set your transponder to a number . You should find somewhere a 4-digit readout with a knob below/above each digit . Set the number indicated to help ATC identify you easily . Otherwise , look around you for big landmarks ( Mountains , Lakes , even a large Church/Cathedral ) as one of the first things ATC will want to do is work out where you are . That 's best case ; let 's look at some alternatives . You 're out of range of the tuned frequency on the radio , or there is no response : Tune 121.5 MHz , this is the <URL> . Someone will be monitoring this channel and be able to give you further advice - if nothing else a local ATC channel to tune . Failing this see if your pilot has a chart handy , he may have drawn his intended route on it - look along that route for anything that looks like a frequency to tune into the radio . Aircraft is climbing , or descending : Get the aircraft into safe , level flight . Remember controls work in the opposite sense to what you might expect ( probably not if you 've ever played any flight simulator ) . If the engine is roaring reduce power slightly . If you appear to be losing altitude with the nose on the horizon increase power slightly . Do everything with tiny incremental changes . Try not to fiddle too much with controls , only what is necessary . Aircraft is heading directly for a cloud/out to the sea/towards a heavily built up area/a big airport : Turn 180 degrees - do n't try to turn too quickly , it should take roughly 30 seconds to 1 minute to complete this turn . There are courses which are aimed at non-pilots who regularly fly in the right hand seat . Here 's some interesting reading : <URL>
end question
start question
Why do airports have to close in bad weather ?
Adding to what the others have mentioned , bad weather is often a combination of low visibility , low ceilings , precipitation , high winds and lightning . Visibility and ceilings As mentioned in @fooot 's answer , ILS is available to land when in these conditions . Every airliner and crew ( and just about every airport they 'd go into ) is trained and equipped for ILS operations . A standard ILS approach is good in weather down to 200 ft ceilings and 1800 or 2400 ft visibility along the runway ( RVR ) . Further airplane and airport equipment and aircrew training can allow ILS category II and III operations , which reduce these numbers ( cat II is 100 ft vertical visibility and RVR 1200 , cat III goes down to essentially no visibility ) . To takeoff , a 2 engined airliner needs 5000 ft RVR ( 1 mile vis ) normally . Airport lighting and airline opspecs can reduce this as low as RVR 300 . Wind High winds are fine , but can make the landing more challenging . When the winds are strong and particularly gusty , a lower flap setting can be used to land and a faster approach speed flown . This will , however , necessitate a long landing rollout . Exceptional crosswinds can also present problems aligning the aircraft with the runway , and if you ca n't line up , you ca n't land ( note that some larger airplanes can land in a crab and do not need to align with the runway until the main gear are on the ground ) . Runway condition You mention the wheels are not powered , and this is true . However , the friction between the runway and the contact patch on the tire is the only thing keeping the airplane on the runway in strong crosswinds , so you need friction to land ( or takeoff ) if there is a crosswind component . Anything reducing friction is problematic ( rain , snow , ice , rubber , etc ) , With high water you risk hydroplaning and this ( or snow/ice ) can lead to departures from the runway sides or an overrun if braking action is insufficient due to lack of friction . Ice needs to be chemically treated and snow must either be treated or plowed at regular intervals ( while it is snowing ) . Ground handlers at the airport must also have deice fluid and the equipment to apply it to aircraft available for operations in snow . Lightning When lightning is in the vicinity , ground crews go inside as it is a deadly hazard to be on the ramp in those conditions . Summary All of these things contribute to lowered arrival rates into the airport and as conditions deteriorate you reach a point where you are spending more time dealing with keeping the airport open than departing airplanes and it makes sense to close the airport temporarily .
The National Weather Service 's 148 WSR-88D Doppler radars can detect most precipitation within approximately 90 mi of the radar , and intense rain or snow within approximately 155 mi . However , light rain , light snow , or drizzle from shallow cloud weather systems are not necessarily detected . -- <URL> As Ron Beyer <URL> , the METAR shows light drizzle .
Gates are usually not charged to airlines separately . Gate fee is usually part of the landing fee package . Landing fees are an important part of the airport revenue , with passenger fees . Airport pricing is subject to recommendations from ICAO , IATA , and other organizations , as regard scope of costs to be taken into consideration , and non-discrimination of airlines . Pricing is determined by the organization managing the airport and/or State or local administration . Single till vs dual till : Distinguishes between aeronautical and non-aeronautical ( commercial ) charges . Airport schedule pricing may use single or dual till . See : <URL> - IATA . <URL> . ICAO guidelines tries to maintain some principles for airport business across all countries : Landing charges : Should be based on the aircraft weight formula . The maximum certificated take-off weight as indicated in the certificate of airworthiness ( or other prescribed document ) should be used , while considering local restrictions that may affect aircraft maximum take-off weight . Allowance should be made for the use of a fixed charge per aircraft or a combination of a fixed charge with a weight-related element , in certain circumstances , such as at congested airports and during peak periods . Parking and hangar charges : For the determination of charges associated with use of parking , hangar and long-term storage of aircraft , maximum permissible take-off weight and/or aircraft dimensions ( area occupied ) and length of stay should be used so far as possible as the basis.Any period of free parking time for aircraft immediately following landing should be determined locally by considering aircraft scheduling , space availability and other pertinent factors . Other charges : -- Passenger service charges -- Security charges -- Noise-related charges -- Emissions-related aircraft charges Albeit a bit old , The Airport Business by Rigas Doganis has a chapter on <URL> which discusses this topic in depth . Extracts : Landing fees : Charged per aircraft , usually based on MTOW ( maximum takeoff weight ) . On most airports covers ATC , runways , taxiways , parking at stand or apron for a certain time ( e.g. 2 hours ) , use of gates / fingers / terminal for disembarking ( use for departure may be paying ) , take-off . Surcharges or rebates in addition of landing fees : For noise , peak-hour operations , Parking and hangar : Beyond the free-parking period covered by the landing fees . Usually based on weight . Passenger charges : per departing passenger , sometime per arriving passenger too . It is easy to find pricing for airports online . <URL> airport ( 2015 ) Rates are different for domestic and international flights . Charges per passenger for landing and passenger facility . For domestic flights , additional landing charges per ton of MTOW . Charges for diversion . Parking charges beyond 2 hours , paid per arrangement with airport . New York <URL> ( 2015 ) Charge for aircraft landing , per thousand pounds of MGLW ( maximum gross landing weight ) . Additional charge for day landing or takeoff ( not for schedule airlines ) . Charge for using public passenger ramp and apron area ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking and storage , per 8-hour slot , based on MGTOW ( maximum gross takeoff weight ) . Agreement possible for operators of aircrafts . No charge for air terminal use . Charge for each passenger departing . <URL> ( 2013 ) Landing fee , based on MGLW , different between permitted and non-permitted air carriers . No charge for remote gates bussing service . Charge for using ramp , apron and remote area , ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking , per 1000 lbs of MGLW , per day , after 3 hours .
Ground operations are just as dangerous as air operations . Strictly speaking the <URL> ( not saying seatbelt played a role or not however severe accidents do happen on the ground ) . The comments cover things well , ( <URL> , <URL> etc. ) Planes are not safe simply because they are on the ground , they are only safe from flight related incidents and once on the ground they are susceptible to ground related incidents . <URL> happen a year . The fact remains there are plenty of things to hit on the ground and plenty that can go wrong in taxi . These accidents are <URL> ( RAMP ) and ( GCOL ) codes ( and potentially others ) . <URL> ( taxi and ground ops make up about 10 % ) . <URL> as well as <URL> requires it ... ( 3 ) Except as provided in this paragraph , each person on board a U.S.-registered civil aircraft ( except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola or an airship type certificated before November 2 , 1987 ) must occupy an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and , if installed , shoulder harness , properly secured about him or her during movement on the surface , takeoff , and landing . For seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface , the person pushing off the seaplane or rotorcraft from the dock and the person mooring the seaplane or rotorcraft at the dock are excepted from the preceding seating and safety belt requirements ...
The Local Area Augmentation System was the FAA term for the Ground Based Augmentation System ( GBAS ) , which is an International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) standardized system for local area differential systems . The FAA has migrated to the ICAO term GBAS , though Several historical FAA documents still retain the LAAS terminology . According to the <URL> page , Currently , two U.S. locations have obtained operational approval for public GBAS use and support revenue airline traffic . These stations are located at Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) and Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) . According to FAA , development of GBAS continues and , The FAA and other States are in the process of validating proposed ICAO GBAS standards to support Category III ( CAT-III ) precision approach operations . The FAA expects ICAO will approve GAST-D Standards and Recommended Practices in 2015 Also , The FAA continues to validate the GBAS CAT-III requirements as part of the Next Generation Air Transportation System ( commonly known as NextGen ) . The FAA has currently deferred any Federal acquisition decision on GBAS . Also , though GBAS and WAAS are mutually exclusive at present , some future aircraft like A350 are expected to support both GBAS and WAAS .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
In the Boeing world , LNAV is Lateral Navigation , and VNAV is Vertical Navigation . When LNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the Flight Management Computer ( FMC ) guidance laterally , i.e. left &amp; right . When VNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the FMC guidance vertically , i.e. climbs &amp; descents . LNAV is conceptually pretty simple : you have a magenta line on the map , your desired course , and the autopilot will follow it . The points defining your course are database points in the FMC that may but certainly do not have to correspond with VOR 's or other conventional NavAids . You can use LNAV to fly VOR-to-VOR , or it can fly point-to-point-to-point equally easily . ( You do n't have to tune any frequencies in either case . ) VNAV is a little more complicated , because you may only be cleared for some of what the FMC wants to do vertically . Simple example : you 're cruising at FL370 , planning to start down at a given point so as to cross AAA at FL240 , and then continue the descent to cross BBB and 10,000 ' and 250 knots . ATC clears you to " descend at pilot discretion , maintain FL 290 . " That means you can start down at whatever point you want , but until you get cleared lower later on , you ca n't descend all the way to FL240 or 10,000 . Yet . Or maybe the controller needs to put you at FL350 right now to avoid a traffic conflict 100 miles ahead , and your clearance is " descend now and maintain FL350 , pilot discretion FL290 . " It 's a lengthy section of Ground School how the pilot sets up the FMC and the mode control panel to accomplish all of this , but hopefully that illustrates some of the complexity of VNAV . It 's a good system ; under typical conditions you can go into LNAV and VNAV shortly after takeoff and stay in them both until shortly before landing , and the FMC gives you smooth ( mostly ) and efficient guidance .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
It depends on the type of bird and mammal species in native to the area and also the type of grass used in turfing ; some of them may not survive if mowed very closely . FAA 's <URL> concedes : Species-specific responses may be expected . ... Airport managers need to work with airport wildlife biologists to determine what species of concern in regards to aircraft safety are in their area and what the habitat needs are for those species . For most airports , FAA recommends a height of 5-8 " of grass . Considering bird , mammal and vegetation limitations , mowing at least monthly at a target of 5 - 8 inches may work in many airport environments as part of a wildlife hazard management program . ... Mowing at 5 - 8 inches should also reduce small mammal abundance .
The estimated off block time , EOBT , which is the time at which the flight is planned to leave the gate at the departure airport , has a validity of + / -15 minutes . If the plane is not able to depart within this window , the company must send a new ATC flightplan with an updated EOBT . In some cases a calculated takeoff time , CTOT , is issued to a flight . This is the exact time the plane must begin its takeoff roll . It is given based on airspace or airport congestion along the planned route of the flight , to prevent overload in individual ATC sectors . The flight must begin its takeoff roll within -5 / +10 minutes of the CTOT . If unable to comply , a new CTOT must be requested .
Aircraft have fixed gears ( when they have gears at all ) ! However in a sense a variable-pitch propeller can be considered analogous to transmission in a car and it was manual in some aircraft . The power transmitted by propeller is , within some reasonable range , proportional to its rotation rate . And so is , again within some reasonable range , the power produced by the engine . So for slow planes a fixed pitch propeller with connected by fixed gear does a decent job . As you open the throttle , the engine speed increases , so does the propeller and that 's exactly what it needs to do to transmit the power . Simpler aircraft have no gears at all and propeller is mounted directly on the engine shaft , higher power engines often have 2:1 reduction gear as the engine rpm would be too high for a propeller . Now at higher speed , the apparent propeller pitch is reduced as the air is already moving , so it would spin faster and faster and eventually too fast for the engine . To counter this , faster propeller-driven aircraft have variable pitch propeller . As speed increases , it is set to higher angle of attack ( coarser ) so it keeps delivering power without increasing rpm . Early variable pitch propellers had manually controlled pitch , but quite quickly constant speed propellers were developed ( many WWII aircraft had them already ) where a weight-on-spring controls the propeller pitch so that constant rpm is maintained . The manually controlled units required a lot of attention and the constant-speed system is rather simple , so manual pitch control was quickly abandoned . And that is kind of equivalent to perfect variable gear transmission . The pilot still has a throttle lever and a propeller pitch lever and selects power and rpm independently . Higher rpm allow higher power , but do n't require it , so landing is usually done with low power , but max rpm so the engine reacts quickly if power is added ( does not need to spin up ) . During cruise some more moderate value is selected ( according to manufacturer recommendation ) to reduce wear of the engine . Turboprop engines always have constant-speed propellers , because in a turbine engine the difference between turbine speed at idle and at full power is not actually that big . Again the rpm limits maximum power , so landing is done with low power , but high rpm and the engine reacts quickly when power is added . Last the turbojet/turbofan engines just turn the turbines and compressors as they need . It 's not much different from the fixed propeller really , though the jet engines now usually have variable guide vanes in the stator ( that are just linked to rpm ) .
Well , the short version is that there really is n't a standard ( and this applies to small as well as large airports ) . Some airport authorities charge fees that are billed through the FBO , some do n't . Some airport authorities bill you directly , some do n't . Normally you pay at the FBO before you leave . Most of the FBO 's set their own fees ( although they may come from corporate ) . Some FBO 's do n't charge any fees ( although not very many these days ) . Some FBO 's waive some ( or all ) of their fees if you buy fuel , some do n't . Most FBO 's charge a fee based on the size/class/weight of aircraft , some do n't . In short , call ahead to the FBO that you will be using and ask them what the fees are and whether or not any of them can be waived . They are used to this question and will have the information handy for you .
It depends on the country where you are flying , and also what the message is . For example in the <URL> Chapter 2 , section 2.48 : 2.48 Ground to Air : Aircraft callsign -- message or reply . Air to Ground : Initiation of new information/request etc. -- Aircraft callsign then message ; Reply -- Repeat of pertinent information/readback/acknowledgement then aircraft callsign . In Germany the normal procedure is to start a message with the call sign , a reply may have the call sign at the end . From the AIP , GEN section 3.4-9 : 6.1 Procedures for Radio Communications ... ( 4 ) The call sign shall be transmitted at the beginning of a message . A direct answer to a message may be terminated by the call sign instead .
Small planes tend to have keys , but not all . The bigger the plane the less likely a key is needed and once you get into jets , I ca n't think of any that need keys for engine starts . The starting and securing of engines with no keys comes down to switches and knobs . Likewise with exterior doors , on smaller planes including private end executive jets , you can find keyed exterior doors and luggage compartments . With transport jets at airlines you wo n't find keys . To secure those doors the jet bridge is pulled away from the airplane so there is no physical access to the boarding door .
One way to approach this question is to look at the annual budget for an airport . I 'm going to assume that you mean a large passenger airport as opposed to one focused on serving general aviation , cargo , etc. . . Let 's use SFO ( San Francisco International ) as our example . It 's a city-owned airport , so the budget is a public document . Here 's <URL> . Page 5 ( page 7 in the PDF ) breaks down major sources of revenue . We have some that fall into the category of " direct " revenue in your question : landing fees , terminal rentals , etc. . . under the " aviation " category . Some of the terminal rental fees include space for purposes you might not consider aviation uses , like back offices for airline staff We also have $ 60-80M in " PFC Revenue . " PFC stands for <URL> ; it 's a charge that is added to the ticket price of everyone flying out of that airport . Finally , there are the non-aviation revenues . The bulk of those come in two categories : parking and concessions . Parking is self-explanatory . Concessions describes all the independent businesses that operate at the airport . Many businesses lease terminal space for retail shops ( including duty-free ) , restaurants and take-out food , lounges , currency exchange , etc. . . They all pay rent and/or a share of revenue to the airport based on the terms of their lease . SFO also books about $ 23M/year in revenue off the sale of electricity , as the airport sells electricity to its tenants ( airlines , concessions , etc. . . ) . I suspect , but am not positive , that these electricity sales are a nice moneymaker for the airport , as it can purchase hydropower from the City at extremely low cost and resell it at market ( utility company ) rates to its tenants . This is a quirk particular to San Francisco however . If you scroll through the detailed budget in the PDF , you 'll find entries for other revenue categories . Examples include advertising fees ( Clear Channel pays the airport to put up ads in the terminals and other areas ) , revenue for things like ATMs and baggage carts , leases to rental car companies , fees paid by taxicabs and airport buses for the right to access airport property , and even permit fees paid by filmmakers and photographers using the airport . Heck , the airport even charges the regional transit agency $ 3.2 M/year in rent and custodial fees for the airport train station . Browsing through the budget should give you a pretty good idea where a large US airport can make money from non-aviation services .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
Update with relevant info from <URL> ( I 'm skipping the FTD portions as not relevant to the question , and including the simulated parts but italicizing them as they 're useful but also not relevant ) . Translated , you can log an approach when : it is flown solely by reference to instruments , and it is flown in IMC , and Actual Instrument time is logged , or the PF is using a view-limiting device , and Simulated Instrument time is logged ; you must fly the complete approach from a feeder or the IAP ( or Vectors to Final ) and remain established the whole time . This means you fly initial , intermediate , and final segments , unless you 're on vectors . if flying the approach in IMC , you may log an approach that : continues to DA/DH or MDA in actual , or becomes VMC before DA/DH or MDA , provided you are inside the FAF . if simulating the approach , you must continue to the DA/DH or MDA under the hood ( or other VLD ) ; That 's pretty much it . Here 's the source text : A pilot may log an IAP for currency or training when the pilot accomplishes the IAP in accordance with the following conditions : When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must operate that aircraft or authorized training device solely by reference to instruments [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] ; When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must be established on each required segment of the IAP to the minimum descent altitude ( MDA ) or decision altitude/decision height ( DA/DH ) ; When conducted in an aircraft simulating instrument flight conditions , a flight simulator , a flight training device , or an aviation training device , the simulated instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) must continue to MDA or DA/DH ; and When conducted in an aircraft , the flight must be conducted under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] . When conducted in an aircraft maneuvering in IMC , and the aircraft transitions from IMC to visual flight conditions on the final approach segment of the IAP prior to or upon reaching MDA or DA/DH . Previously , I linked to Rod Machado , who cites the FAA in an <URL> to this that I quite like , and which was pretty frequently referred to when I was instructing at a flight school : Once you have been cleared for and have initiated an instrument approach in IMC , you may log that approach for instrument currency , regardless of the altitude at which you break out of the clouds . ... but this is not the latest knowledge anymore . It 's functionally pretty close to the InFo rules for IMC approaches , though !
Honestly ? It 's probably because they heard someone else do it , and thought it sounded cool ( or otherwise just got it stuck in their head ) . You 're 100 % right - saying the runway name is , if slightly longer , certainly a bit more informative . It 's the kind of thing that can help arriving pilots know which runway is in use , keeping later radio clutter ( " Um , uhh , Jeffco Traffic , um , say runway in use ? " ) to a minimum for pilots already on frequency . Even a ' one runway airport ' still has two runways ( 09/27 , for example ) , and it 's nice to know which one you should set up for when winds are light . The preferred terminology is more like " Jeffco Traffic , 3AC , clear 29 " .
end question
start question
Why is a control surface that allows two sides of airflow better than those that allow one ?
For low drag , you want to minimize the surface changes presented to the air flow . Large changes in the surface will create turbulence and pressure changes that contribute to drag . Small changes will minimize these sources of drag . When you move a control surface like an aileron or elevator , air is flowing past both sides of the airfoil . Although this changes the direction of the flow , which gives the control force as well as some drag , the air can still flow past both sides . In the case of a spoiler , the air can not flow past both sides . This increases the frontal area presented to the flow , and creates a low pressure area behind the deployed surface . Creating a low-pressure area behind an object is a big contributor to drag , which is why <URL> . Spoilers on the wing also have the effect of reducing lift . By disrupting the smooth low-pressure flow over the upper surface of the wing , they reduce the effectiveness of the wing , effectively <URL> . For an illustration of both principles in action , <URL> of a speed brake on a Mooney . This shows how even a relatively small object , when disrupting the air flow , can add a significant amount of drag .
Two reports are published and everybody is free to believe whichever they choose . According to ICAO rules the ( investigation board1 of ) country of occurrence ( or country of operator if it happens over international waters ) leads the investigation and ( investigation boards of ) country of operator , country of aircraft registration and country of aircraft manufacture are asked to take part in the investigation2 . So it is expected that the investigators from country where the accident happened will publish the official report . But some investigators may choose to publish their own report if agreement about the probable cause is not reached . Since even the official report does not have any legal effect ( the investigation boards do n't have any legal power ) , so it does not really matter much . An accident report identifies factors that contributed to the accident and suggests improvements to safety practices to reduce risk of the accident reoccurring . But whether the recommendations are implemented depends on aviation authorities3 , which are separate governmental bodies with legislative power . And they decide which recommendations they will incorporate into the legal rules . Of course each such authority only has power over that country . So while the accident is investigated just once ( even when multiple reports are published , the investigation is joint effort , just the investigators do n't agree on the conclusion ) , the rules may be implemented differently in different countries . ICAO tries to coordinate , but it does not have any legal powers itself either . So it is up to the aviation authorities to choose which report they believe more . Assigning blame is explicitly not purpose of the investigation according to ICAO rules . A criminal trial or civil litigation may be started about the accident by complaint from police , state attorney or damaged person , in which case the investigation report will likely appear as expertise in the court , but if there is not agreement between the investigators , it is again up to the court to decide which explanation it believes most . Finally , the investigators not agreeing is rare in practice . Usually the investigation continues until they get something they can agree on ; for several years if needed . Suspected intentional crashes by pilot ( which is both cases you mention ) seem to be the main exception as there may be political reasons why the leading investigators ( from the same country the pilots were ) do n't want to accept that resolution . 1Investigation board in USA is NTSB , in Canada TSB ( the most rigorous investigation board in the world ( or at least they very carefully collect and report even the smallest incidents , see <URL> ) ) , in UK AAIB , in France BEA etc. . 2It is not strictly necessary , but it is the usual setup . The country of occurrence handles most investigation on site , country of registration takes care of interviewing operator and maintenance personnel and country of manufacture cooperates with manufacturer on identifying mechanical damage and usually reads the FDR and CVR data as there are only a few labs in the world that do that . Plus some of the large investigation boards may be asked for additional help . And in politically sensitive cases like MH17 additional countries may be involved to reduce risk of manipulation with the results . 3Aviation authority in USA is FAA . In Europe there is EASA , which coordinates the regulations , and separate authorities in each country that carry out the actual oversight .
My short answer : Stability is reduced by shifting the center of gravity aft . Shifting it past the neutral point makes the airplane unstable , so movements away from the trimmed state are accelerated . This increases maneuverability . Flight computers are multiple redundant , if one dies the others take over . Slow unstable airplanes can be flown by a human pilot , but not fast unstable airplanes . For the long answer , let me first clarify terms : Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to it 's old state after being disturbed . Take a pendulum : If you pull it to one side , it will return to the middle . Eventually . Dynamic stability is the tendency of an oscillating system for the oscillations to die down over time . Take the same pendulum : It will swing from side to side , and friction will ensure this happens with ever smaller amplitude . Now we need to add dimensions , all three of them : Pitch , roll and yaw . An airplane can be stable in one dimension and unstable in a different one . I understand your question such that you ask about the static pitch stability ( or longitudinal stability ) of fighter aircraft . The Wright Flyer was longitudinally unstable ( see <URL> for more ) . Once aircraft designers learned that aircraft can be made to fly stable , and learned that this is of immense benefit in pilot training , static stability became a requirement for new aircraft . When war in Europe broke out , the British forces were equipped with a superb <URL> , but it was so stable that it took effort and time to convince it to change course . They were shot down in droves . From now on , low stability was a prime requirement for fighters and aerobatic aircraft . Static stability is proportional to the control forces ( more precisely : To the hinge moment of the respective control surface ) , so reducing stability gave pilots more response for the same effort . Longitudinal static stability is measured as the relative distance between neutral point ( NP ) and the center of gravity ( CG ) . See <URL> for more . Longitudinal static stability is achieved by placing the CG ahead of the NP . Shifting the CG back gives you a more responsive airplane , but also one which is more easily disturbed by gusts . This is the design technique you asked about . Pretty simple , right ? Once you shift the CG aft of the NP , stability is lost and the airplane will increase deviations from the trimmed state . This can be helpful if you want large angle changes , and quickly . An unstable aircraft only needs a small kick and will do the rest of the maneuver all by itself . This is how it helps in maneuverability . But it is even more helpful to reduce the inertias , especially around the roll axis , for a faster response . That is why all combat aircraft have their engines close to the center . Of course , negative stability is not acceptable when you need to take your hands off the stick to get a map out or to pee on a long flight . So without computer control , the limit was a CG position near , but not aft of the NP . With supersonic aircraft , things got more complicated . Now the aircraft operates in two flight regimes , one where lift acts at the quarter chord of the wing and one where it acts at mid-chord . Aircraft with low static stability become very stable in supersonic flight , and the tail surface has to create a high down-force so that the sum of all lift stays where the CG is . Creating lift always incurs a drag penalty , and in supersonic flight it has to be payed twice : One for the excess lift on the wing ( which is needed to compensate for the tail 's down-force ) and one for the down-force on the tail . Using a flight control computer offers the possibility to allow the pilot to let go of the stick without the aircraft going off course . Now the stick does not command elevator deflection , but pitch rate , and the CG can be moved back from maybe 12 % of MAC ( mean aerodynamic chord ) to -2 % . If you compare the wing areas of stable and unstable jets ( Jaguar and Mirage F-1 are prime examples ) , you will see how much is achieved just by going back with the CG by a few percent of wing chord . Both configurations have the same airfield and combat performance ! Can a human still fly such an aircraft ? In glider competitions , the more daring pilots fly with relaxed static stability and have no problem to keep the aircraft under control . Even the Wright brothers could handle their unstable airplane , and handling improved when they moved the CG further back ( If you want to know why , please post a new question . This answer is getting too long already ! ) . However , the speed of an aircraft 's pitch response is proportional to flight speed ( and inverse to the pitch moment of inertia ) , so faster aircraft are harder to control . You can compare dynamic pressure with the stiffness of a spring : A stiffer spring moves the eigenfrequency of a spring-mass system up , and the same is true for the eigenvalues of the <URL> of an aircraft . Given that the reaction time of a good pilot is a
Flow separation happens when the pressure gradient of the airflow along the flow path becomes too steep . In subsonic flow , the oncoming air is first decelerated ahead of the wing , then swiftly accelerated when it flows around the strongly curved nose section of a wing . This acceleration is the consequence of the wing 's curvature . See it this way : If the airflow would be along a straight line , it would move away from the surface , creating a local vacuum . In reality , the air settles at a compromise between the straight path and following the contour , creating decreasing pressure along a surface with increasing curvature and increasing pressure along surfaces with decreasing curvature . More precisely , it is always in an equilibrium between inertial , viscous and pressure forces.This suction not only bends the airflow into following the wing 's contour , but also accelerates the air ahead of it . The lower the pressure , the more the air speeds up , such that the total energy of air ( the sum of pressure and kinetic energy ) stays constant . Therefore , pressure and local speed change in sync.When the curvature decreases further downstream , the flow path becomes straighter and pressure rises again . However , the air particles close to the wing slow down because of friction . The layer of air where this slowing is noticeable is called boundary layer . In it , the deceleration effects due to pressure rise and due to friction add up , and at some point the air comes to a standstill relative to the wing . Where this happens , static air will collect and build up , causing flow separation . Thankfully , the exchange of air across a turbulent boundary layer kicks the slowest air particles downstream , so at moderate angles of attack the air still moves along until it reaches the trailing edge . Only when the suction peak around the nose becomes very high at high angle of attack , the consequent steep pressure rise along the remaining flow path overpowers the possibilities of the turbulent boundary layer , the air decelerates completely and the flow separates . This is a wholly subsonic affair . If the wing moves at high subsonic speed , the curvature-created suction accelerates the flow such that it reaches supersonic speed . Now something odd happens : Supersonic flow accelerates further when subsonic flow would decelerate . This is caused by the change in density which is dominant at supersonic speed . Incompressible ( = very slow ) flow has constant density , and all speed changes affect pressure . At Mach 1 , the pressure and density changes are of equal magnitude , and in supersonic flow the density changes dominate . Now we have a supersonic pocket of air on the upper surface of the wing where speed increases and density decreases downstream , and the surrounding subsonic air sees little change in density . This picture should give you some idea how it looks : The whole wing moves at Mach 0.68 . Compare the green color at some distance from the wing with the scale on the left side , which gives the Mach number for each color shade . At the airfoil nose , you see a blue area . This is where the air decelerates - it gets pushed together by the approaching wing . Now follow the colors along the upper side - they quickly turn green , yellow and red as the air is accelerated into the low pressure area ( remember , low pressure equals high speed , so the reddest area has the highest local flow speed and the lowest pressure ) . In subsonic flow , the suction peak would be somewhere between 20 % and 30 % of chord , and the colors would slowly change back to yellow and green if you move further downstream . Now we have local supersonic flow ( everything redder than light orange is supersonic here ) , and instead of slowly decelerating , the air is speeding up to a maximum Mach number of 1.23 at almost 60 % of chord length.This can not last , and at some point this supersonic pocket collapses . This happens instantly in a shock , and as you know , in a straight shock density increases suddenly and speed decreases such that the <URL> . In the picture above , boundary layer effects create a lambda shock , which has its name from the Greek letter which looks like the shock pattern here . Aft of the shock , you have subsonic flow again , and a much thicker boundary layer which moves very slowly ( blue shade ) . This is due to the energy conversion through the shock , which converts kinetic energy into heat . But the flow is still attached - even this shock did not cause separation . If this pressure rise is big enough , the boundary layer will come to an instantaneous standstill , and then the flow separates . This is the shock induced separation you asked about . Unfortunately , the picture above is the best I could find , and I have none with separated flow aft of the shock . But it helps to show that the center of pressure moves aft . This causes a strong nose-down moment . Also , with higher subsonic Mach numbers directional stability decreases . Now even more nasty things can happen : The location of the sho
The <URL> used two separate PT-6B to drive a single pusher propeller through a common gearbox . <URL> LeraFan 2100 in flight ( picture <URL> ) If you want to know why its official first flight date is December 32 , 1980 , read <URL> . <URL> LearFan 2100 engine arrangement ( picture <URL> ) This engine arrangement was the LearFan 's eventual undoing when the FAA denied it a proper certification because of concerns that the single gearbox constituted a single point of failure .
The relevant regulation is in 14 CFR 61.1 ( b ) ( 3 ) : Cross-country time means -- ( i ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( ii ) through ( vi ) of this definition , time acquired during flight -- ( A ) Conducted by a person who holds a pilot certificate ; ( B ) Conducted in an aircraft ; ( C ) That includes a landing at a point other than the point of departure ; and ( D ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . ( ii ) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements ( except for a rotorcraft category rating ) , for a private pilot certificate ( except for a powered parachute category rating ) , a commercial pilot certificate , or an instrument rating , or for the purpose of exercising recreational pilot privileges ( except in a rotorcraft ) under § 61.101 ( c ) , time acquired during a flight -- ( A ) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft ; ( B ) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure ; and ( C ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . Note that the rule under paragraph ( ii ) ( B ) is " a flight " that includes " a " point of landing more than 50nm from the point of departure . It does not specify that all points of landing must be further than 50nm from the departure point , or even that the first point of landing must be further than 50nm . Since the overall trip was over 50nm , does the FAA allow you to consider that 24nm leg to be part a single overall flight ? Unfortunately , the FAA does n't provide a definition of " flight " in this context . However , it is generally accepted that short stops ( to pick up a passenger , refuel , eat lunch , etc. ) can be logged as part of a single flight . Edit to add : Please also this this <URL> , and especially the <URL> it links to .
The answer is probably indeed A. Pegoud with a Bleriot monoplane in the fall of 1913 , as answered by RedGrittyBrick . After that , a real craze started in Europe with stunt pilots flying briefly inverted at air shows . The first purpose-designed airplane for inverted flight was probably a Grade monoplane which flew first in the spring of 1914 . I have found this picture on a <URL> which lists lots of photos from early issues of Flight magazine . You have to scroll down 80 % to find it . It gives the name as " Tweer monoplane " , but it was actually built by the Grade aircraft factory right after the inverted flying craze was started by Pegoud . Gustav Tweer was an aerobatics pilot ( one of many at this time ) , who was famous for diving his airplane almost into the ground at flight shows . This airplane was designed for inverted landings , and with the uncambered wing I would expect that also the fuel system was adapted for inverted flight , however , there is no mention of that anywhere I have searched .
Short answer : Because you only use one hand on the yoke . Longer answer : In an airplane , you almost always fly with only one hand on the yoke ( or none , as the case may be . ) You will be using your other hand for power adjustments , setting flaps , adjusting radios , setting instruments , writing , etc. . In a car , power is adjusted with your feet , so you do n't need your second hand for power adjustments and there are n't really any other particularly critical controls that need to be manipulated frequently or precisely . However , in an airplane , you have to be able to precisely control three axes of rotation , not just one like in a car . As such , your feet are needed for yaw control ( and differential braking , ) which means power must instead be controlled by hand . So , there 's no need for the various grip positions that you could use with a wheel because you do n't want your second hand on the yoke in the first place . Additionally , having a 90-degree angle ( or nearly so , as the case may be ) allows for a better grip than the smooth curve of a steering wheel . You can place 2 or 3 fingers above the horizontal bar and the others below , which prevents your hand from slipping up or down the control wheel , as is possible with a normal car steering wheel . As far as the second question of whether it would be better to have 180 degrees equal full deflection , that would mean you would either need 2 hands on the yoke in order to command full deflection , which is not good for the reasons already mentioned , or have a weaker grip on the yoke that would allow you to rotate it 180 degrees either direction . If you have a firm grip on the yoke , your wrist will simply not be able to rotate enough to turn it upside down without releasing your grip . It 's also important to note the difference here between what the yoke controls versus what a car steering wheel controls . A car steering wheel directly controls your turn rate . Thus , a car whose steering wheel is in the neutral position will not be turning . In an airplane , however , your current bank angle controls your turn rate . An aileron deflection changes your bank angle . Having the ailerons in the neutral position will not cause you to fly straight forwards , but rather will simply leave your bank angle ( and thus your turn rate ) at its present value ( <URL> . ) Thus , you do n't need as much possible input control range to get precise turn rate control .
It happens when the airplane levels off after takeoff , usually either at the first assigned altitude or at a safe altitude where it will be accelerated in order to retract the flaps . The feeling is a result of negative vertical acceleration . It can also happen at other times during the flight , such as during turbulence or when starting a descent . Basically you and the airplane are both in a steady climb and when the aircraft levels off you continue to move up faster so it ( via the seatbelt ) keeps you at its same level and decelerates your own personal vertical climb . It is just like the feeling you get in a roller coaster . My wife calls it a wee-hill ! :-) EDIT : Another more familiar example happens anytime that you are traveling in a car : If you are in a car moving at a constant speed ( let 's say 55 MPH ) you are moving at the same speed along with it . When the brakes of the car are engaged , they slow the car down but your inertia tends to keep you moving in the direction that the car was going . This will be more noticeable as the brakes are applied harder and harder because the deceleration of the car is more extreme . You will notice this as pressure against the seat belt as the car holds you in place . You are still moving forward , but you are getting slower ( decelerating ) . In an airplane the exact same thing is happening only it is in a vertical direction instead of a horizontal direction like in the car . What you are feeling is your stomach floating up a little inside your body , because while the seat belt is holding you down , it does n't hold your stomach in place !
Generally speaking , pilots do n't like it when a computer interprets or limits their actions . They want final control . They do n't always get their way on this but that 's their preference . If I recall correctly , Boeing tends to stick with the philosophy that " the pilot is the final arbiter . " Airbus is more likely to preempt pilot inputs and modify them . Although the majority of crashes and incidents wind up being pilot error , there is a serious flaw to modifying pilot inputs . That flaw is in the case of systems failure . By definition , failure modes involve things going wrong . When things go wrong it 's effectively impossible to plan , in automation , for all contingencies . People are much better at responding to the unknown than automation systems are . Take for instance the rule that " bank angles > 45 degrees are dangerous , and are therefore prohibited " . How does the plane know that the bank angle is > 45 degrees ? Well it 's a sensor of course , but what if the sensor has failed ? A failed sensor will either signal to take action when none is needed or fail to signal when action is called for . What if the control surfaces have failed and the plane can not correct the bank angle ? The usual answer to that is redundant systems , high reliability parts and design , etc. . All those are great of course and certainly help a lot . However we still have incidents and accidents . In the end the question is : Who do you trust more ? A pilot or a machine ? And statistics and science only help you part-way here . A person 's experience , biases and feelings will have a lot to say about how they answer . And by " person " , understand that I 'm including the customers , the paying public .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
The only real answer here is to <URL> . I searched on the AOPA forums ( members only ) and the information was n't encouraging : all current ( as of 2014 , which was the more recent relevant post I found ) neuropathy drugs are disqualifying . AOPA 's <URL> does show some approved drugs for pain relief , but it looks like it 's all OTC stuff . But , the usual medical disclaimer applies here : every case is different so the above may be irrelevant to you personally ; I 'm not a doctor and I do n't know what I 'm talking about anyway ; only an AME can give you meaningful information .
Normal autopilots do n't . They expect all systems to work correctly , and in case of failure of a single control surface they will stubbornly command actions which are no longer possible . For them , thrust is only for controlling the vertical speed , and the application of asymmetric thrust for yaw control is not possible . There are experimental autopilots which compare the result of their actions with a number of pre-programmed scenarios and select for their next commands the scenario which agrees best with reality . These really do what you assumed , but the specific scenario must have been considered before so the specific control laws are part of the code . Computers small enough to be carried on airplanes became powerful enough to do this in real time maybe 20 to 25 years ago , but I am not aware that regular autopilots of airliners have this capability even today . It is , however , used for unmanned vehicles .
In fact , most militaries do n't take colorblind people into flight school . Colorblindness can be a serious problem for a pilot , because in the interest of cost and/or simplicity , not all indicators in an aircraft cockpit are colorblind-accessible . It 's really cheap to use a two-way red/green LED as a status indicator ( and by quickly alternating the current through the LED you get amber ) ; it 's much more expensive in electro-mechanical systems to combine text and color so that the status can be deciphered by someone who is red-green colorblind . It becomes easier again in a glass cockpit , but that increases cost and there are still concerns like screen resolution to consider when designing text-and-color displays . While it 's in the general interest of aviation manufacturers to design certain avionics with as many overlapping visual cues as possible , it 's not always feasible to specifically design towards colorblind accessibility in every circumstance . Here is a set of spectra simulating how various forms of colorblindness would change a person 's perception of the normal color set : <URL> Protanopia and deuteranopia are various forms of red-green colorblindness , the most common form of dichromia ( protanopia is a deficiency in red cells , deuteranopia a deficiency in green ; the results are similar because red and green are close in wavelength ) . Tritanopia is commonly called blue-yellow colorblindness and is less common , with full colorblindness ( monochromia ) being very rare . From this chart , we can deduce the following basic difficulties for a red-green colorblind person attempting to operate a plane : Red on brown , or any dark color , would have no contrast . That would make reading ( and setting ) this Cessna radio stack nearly impossible : <URL> ... as well as decreasing the contrast of red lines on high-elevation sectionals ( like Charlie/Echo space boundaries , non-towered airports , NDB frequencies etc ) : <URL> Green and yellow are practically indistinguishable . That would make discerning the borders of inhabited low-lying areas on sectionals difficult : <URL> ... as well as making the color-coding of this airspeed gauge much less useful at a glance : <URL> Blue and magenta are indistinguishable , as are cyan and white . That makes your GPS useless over water ; where 's the magenta line ? <URL> While you could probably get around most of these difficulties ( buy a nav stack with blue LED displays , trace the borders of your sectional charts in something , configure the GPS to give you a white line , etc etc ) these are all images that people with full color vision would be able to discern at a glance , which in an emergency situation is often a life-or-death advantage . That point is especially true for military pilots , who are typically subject to more rigorous medical screening and training including very high requirements for visual acuity ( often better than 20/20 uncorrected vision ) . If you ca n't see extremely well in a combat situation , you will either fail to spot an enemy until he has gained a significant advantage over you , or you will fire on friendly forces ; either way , you 're a liability . Coupled with the fact that everyone and their brother grew up dreaming of being a fighter pilot , flight schools get to be picky . Therefore , military aircraft cockpits are typically designed with the assumption of full color spectrum perception , because the only people who will ever be in them will be able to tell red from green , blue from yellow . Consider , just as one example , a hypothetical conflict in the Middle East involving the Turks and Iranians , where NATO and thus the USAF is also involved . Both of these countries still operate variants of the F-4 Phantom . With an ROE requiring visual confirmation of a hostile , if you are in a USAF F-22 , in a visual-range tangle with an F-4 whose IFF is inconclusive ( either non-functioning or malfunctioning ) and you ca n't tell the difference between these two rondels ... ... you are screwed . The fact the Phantom is maneuvering against you is what any pilot would do when approached by an aggressor aircraft ; a Turkish pilot is n't just going to sit there and be shot down by friendly fire , he 'll engage defensive , so you can either shoot and risk spending the rest of your life in Leavenworth for dereliction of duty , or break engagement , presenting your tailpipe to the other craft and hoping it 's not hostile . Fifty-fifty shot either way with a hundred and fifty million dollar plane on the line , not to mention your life . Your first clue it 's an Iranian would be a missile launch , and no matter how much more advanced USAF craft are now than in the era of the F-4 , an aircraft that has successfully launched a short-range missile at you has you by the wrinkly ones . In addition , ground lighting systems are often not differentiable either . For instance , there is an important difference between a heliport beacon flashing green-yellow-white versus white-green-red ( the one including a red fla
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
... however , I ca n't find a reference to where IATA would publish these codes . You can find it <URL> . Before committing to the purchase of the document , check the free Table of Contents to make sure it has what you want .
As long as the vertical tail surface sits above the centerline ( more precisely the longitudinal axis of inertia - for now we can assume both fall together ) , any side force will also create a rolling moment . This is undesirable because now a yaw command will not only create the intended yawing moment , but also a rolling moment . If you want to yaw in order to turn , the vertical tail above the centerline will even roll the aircraft in the wrong direction , so you need more coordinated aileron command than with a symmetrical vertical tail . So the short answer to your question is : Terry is right : Extending the vertical tail below is clearly a benefit . This can be seen by the widespread use of ventral fins in combat aircraft . Adding area below the centerline helps to reduce the roll contribution of the vertical tail in a sideslip , which improves handling characteristics ( more directional stability AND lower yaw-induced roll ) . See the picture below for an example where the effects of additional vertical tail area are compared to the effects of a ventral fin of the same area . At supersonic speeds , the low aspect ratio ventral fin has a nearly constant contribution to directional stability , whereas the wing-like vertical tail loses effectivity in proportion to the Prandtl-Glauert factor $ \ frac { 1 } { \ sqrt { Ma ^ 2-1 } } $ . The small ventral fin of the F-104 raised directional stability by 30 % at Mach 2 . At high angles of attack , the vertical tail is in the wake of the fuselage which reduces local dynamic pressure and , consequently , effectivity . The ventral fin then is in ideal flow conditions , so it can help to stabilize the aircraft at high angle of attack , just when the fuselage contribution to instability is largest .
Only a mechanical inspection is likely to give you a definitive answer for why the AI tumbled , but typically it 'll happen for one of two reasons : either the vacuum pump has decided to take a break , in which case the AI gyros slow down and will eventually no longer hold the instrument up , or you 've exceeded the instrument 's pitch and/or bank limits and caused it to tumble . In the case of the former , there 's not much you can do in a stock -172 about that . Section 3 in the PIM just tells to verify that the vacuum pump is operating with normal parameters ( green arc is 4.5-5 .5 in.hg ) . I 've seen PA-28Rs with electric vacuum pumps that served as standbys to the engine-driven ones , but never seen one in a -172 , not even as an STC mod . You could always try increasing the throttle ; pumps in older aircraft will sometimes fail to perform as expected at lower throttle settings , but there 's no guarantee there . The latter case can happen during maneuvering flight if you exceed + / -30 degrees of pitch and 60 degrees of bank on a non-acrobatic AI . This can inadvertently happen when certain training maneuvers such as power-on or cross-controlled stalls are performed ... enthusiastically . I 've also seen tumbling occur during spin training . And then there was the Husky we used for banner-towing and which was pitched to 45 degrees on a regular basis during banner picks ( waivers are wonderful things ) . The AI tumbled so regularly , the owner gave up on having mechanics reset it . But yea , should this happen to you again , run any checklists that might exist on the topic ( either directly concerned with the AI or with the vacuum pump system ) , and switch to partial panel ops if necessary .
Yes , since the ILS is just a set of radio signals emitted and received by aircraft , there can be more than one aircraft established on localizer and glidepath . The ILS does not lock or tune onto one single aircraft , it continuously broadcasts the localizer and glidepath signal . Since the localizer and glidepath antennas are located at the end of runway for the localizer and at the side of the runway for the glidepath , you will only need to worry about interference by aircraft on the ground , where they are close to the antennas and can deflect the signal due to proximity . This is why there are protection areas and aircraft need to hold at certain holding points , e.g. CAT II holding points when CAT II approaches are in use . Aircraft in the air can also interfere and deflect the signal , however the emitted signals spread in a cone , so other aircraft still can receive the correct signals . To quote <URL> from one of the comments : [ ... ] basically , the localizer is projected from the far end of the runway , and the glideslope is projected from the side of the runway at or near the touchdown target . Thus , aircraft in line to touch down on the ideal target will have good line-of-sight to both transmitter pairs ( unless there 's an aircraft in the ILS Critical Area ) <URL> ( Image Source : www.aopa.org ) ( Image Source : <URL> ( found via <URL> ) ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
According to the Payload/range diagrams from the <URL> ( page 95 ) , the fuel capacity is 32 539 kg ( 71 737 lb ) <URL>
end question
start question
If I have a float plane , can I land on any body of water ?
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
For best results , put good flaps on the wing and forget using a winglet . If you insist on bending the wing up at its end , just continue with the tip airfoil and select the incidence such that your circulation distribution over the wing and winglet will become elliptical when you plot it in a straight line . The small size of your airplane implies that you will not need to unload the tips to reduce root bending moment .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
You can find this information in the Airport Facility Directory which is published in print by the FAA and is available <URL> . REIL will be listed for the specific runway for the airport in question . For example I fly out of KDYL and if we take a look at the page in the AFD for KDYL you will see REIL listed for RWY 23 <URL> ( <URL> )
From the <URL> , page 4-41 ( as part of the Missed Approach section ) , there is a quote about what to do when you need to go around when operating beyond the missed approach point : In the event a balked ( rejected ) landing occurs at a position other than the published missed approach point , the pilot should contact ATC as soon as possible to obtain an amended clearance . I have seen several other references in FAA documents which say to " contact ATC as soon as practical " in similar situations , but nothing which specifically says to do it any time that a go around is initiated by the pilot ( i.e. under VFR ) . That being said , if you have received a specific clearance ( for a touch and go ) , and decide that you prefer to do something else ( low approach/go-around ) , you should always receive an amended clearance first . If you know ahead of time , your best option is probably to request the " option " , in which case you have a clearance to do either one . On the other hand , if the reason for the go-around is due to a safety issue then execute the go-around immediately when needed , and follow the above guidance to contact ATC as soon as practical if they do n't call you first . I was taught by my flight instructor to always report it , and the tower certainly needs to know about it in order to provide proper separation with other aircraft operating in the area . If nothing else , it is a " best practice " to ensure that the person in the tower does n't get distracted and not notice that you did n't land .
For my answer I 'm going to assume that someone is genuinely trying to shoot you down for some reason , it 's not some sort of legal intercept . If you ignore a legal intercept then I can see a warning shot being fired to get your attention , in which case I would tell ATC I 've been intercepted and get on guard ( 121.5 ) and communicate with them and follow their instructions , evasive maneuvering in this case is a bad idea . I 'm also assuming that no missiles are involved because if you are against a missile equipped enemy in a PA-28 the missile 's going to win . It may be called a Warrior but let 's face it , it ai n't . In the incredibly unlikely event that someone is trying to kill you without warning then communication with the ground would be my last priority in the situation you describe because ATC can not help you and you do n't have time to explain it to them anyway . If you have a one-button squawk emergency button by all means hit it , but first and foremost you need to keep positive control on the airplane . If you exceed your critical AOA and end up in a spin you are in a worse emergency and if you rip the wings off you are dead . If it is at night then turning off your lights would be a smart idea , this wo n't help if the fire is radar guided but it will if the fire is visual . If there 's a cloud very close by going into it is probably a great idea . Next you need to determine whether the fire is air or ground based . If it 's ground based you will know because the tracers will be going from below you to above you ( hopefully not through you ) then your best bet is to throttle up and clear the area as quickly as you can by staying on the same track so you get away from the guns . Diving will increase your airspeed allowing you to clear the area faster but keep it below the vne ! Some small left/right turns may help to throw of the aim of the guns , but large turns will only serve to keep you close to the guns for longer . If there 's terrain nearby which you can put between you and the guns then use it . If the fire is air based then the tracers will be closer to the horizontal . If you are being shot at from another aircraft then flying in a straight line is likely the worst possible idea , you need to maneuver . If your airplane is faster than theirs then dive and outrun them , but chances are you are n't going to be able to do that , so personally I would corkscrew down and cling to the nap of the earth . Use your short turning radius to its best effect and do n't fly a predictable path . Ideally I would use terrain and/or clouds to try and break visual contact so I can escape . If you can spare a few cycles in all this you should make a mayday call to ATC and tell them you 're being shot at , and whether it is another aircraft or someone on the ground . Say your intentions , your aircraft condition , and the number of people on board . This is n't likely to immediately help you , but it may help to keep someone else from flying into the same situation if there 's a nutcase on the loose with an anti-aircraft gun or someone 's strapped a 50 cal to their SR-22 and is playing red baron with passing aircraft . If you 're lucky local law enforcement or the military may be able to scramble something fast and take the heat off you , but most likely it 's all over by the time they get there .
Well " any " is an awfully broad statement , but the answer is " Theoretically yes . " -- You would just need floats that displace enough water to provide buoyancy for the aircraft at its maximum gross weight . For a 747 that would be impractical : We 're talking about a plane with a maximum takeoff weight in the neighborhood of 700,000-900 ,000 pounds depending on model and variant , and that would be an ENORMOUS set of pontoons . The form drag alone would be prohibitive , nevermind the structural work required to attach the pontoons in such a way that they wo n't be ripped off at takeoff speed in the water or blow off the plane in cruise flight . For smaller aircraft it 's certainly do-able : You can take a Piper Cherokee 180 , remove the landing gear , and install floats ( Piper kit # 756-746 ) to make it into a seaplane : <URL> <URL> Note the structural bracing for the floats , which attach both at the main landing gear point and the nose landing gear point to enable them to take the loads imposed by taxiing through water . There are also <URL> to prevent the aircraft from taking on water . Note however that just because something is possible does n't mean it 's a good idea , and the PA-28S is an example of that : The low-wing design of the Cherokee coupled with its single door on the right side makes the seaplane version an exercise in impracticality .
As shown on page 77 of <URL> FAA document , the various tests needed for an AMES ( air multi engine sea ) rating depend on the ratings you already hold and your area of operation . Depending on your area of operation , holding an AMEL ( air multi engine land ) rating can allow you to skip most or all of the required tasks for an AMES rating . In many cases , an AMEL rating is actually better for getting an AMES rating than a single engine sea ( ASES ) rating will be . So in short , you do not need an ASES rating first , but having one can make the process of getting an AMES rating easier in certain areas of operation .
Generally speaking you continue your climb after rotation although this will depend on the runway , runway conditions and airport procedures . <URL> : In some cases if you are leaving from a grass strip ( still technically a runway ) you will go for your soft field take off maneuver . In this case you will actually pop the plane off the ground into ground effect as soon as you can ( you will be flying at this point ) . Then build up speed in ground effect ( at a level attitude so you can see the runway fine ) then begin your climb out when you have sufficient speed at a climb attitude . <URL> : If the runway is short ( or there is an obstacle to clear ) you will execute your short field maneuvers . In this case you will take off with 1 notches of flaps . Gun the engine but hold the breaks and let the prop spin up . Then as soon as you hit rotation speed pull back to your best angle of climb . Then when you have cleared your obstacle you can level it out to a normal climb t ( best rate or what ever you planed for ) . In this case clearing the obstacle may be more important than strictly maintaining the runway heading ( depending on where the obstacle is ) . In this maneuver you will focus on your airspeed ( to keep from stalling ) as well as your attitude indicator and your heading indicator to keep as on course as possible . Air Port Procedures : Some airports have special procedures for departing because of obstacles , air spaces , noise abatements etc. . For example I fly out of DYL and they have a procedure on runway 23 that calls for a turn to 250 and climb out to 1200 ft before executing any other turns or maneuvers . Once I have cleared the trees I will usually begin my turn . Generally speaking you fly the runway heading after you have rotated and you do this using the heading indicator NOT the compass . Since you are in accelerated climbing flight your compass is inaccurate .
There are two basic classes of G-load ; static and dynamic . The difference is time ; static loads are those placed on the airframe and its contents during relatively sustained maneuvers like climbing , banked turns , etc. . Dynamic loads are transient ; turbulence and touchdown are the two big ones . Which one we 're talking about is very germane to the question ; most maneuvers deal primarily with a static load caused by the change in direction of travel over a sustained turn or pitch-up , however dynamic loads from turbulence while maneuvering must also be accounted for . Also very relevant is the weight of the aircraft at the time of a g-loading event ; g-forces are always a multiple of this mass relative to the force of gravity on that mass . The weight used for rating purposes is usually the aircraft 's max take-off weight , because this is the heaviest that a plane is expected to be while flying ( and thus subject to maneuvering loads ) , and so the most pessimistic . For static G-forces , the 737 class operating G-range is between +2.5 g to -1.0 g at MTOW in " clean " configuration ( reduced to between 2.0-0 .0 g under full flap ) . Multiplied by the 737-800 's MTOW of 79,000 kg ( 174,165 lbs ) , we get a critical number when talking about such things , which is known as the " design load limit " , which for the 738 is 197,500 kg ( 435,412 lbs ) . The aircraft 's combination of mass and G-loading should not exceed this number . This means the aircraft can , theoretically , withstand much higher g-forces on a ferry flight when there are no passengers or cargo ; at the 738 's operating empty weight of 41,145 kg ( 90,710 lbs ) , the DLL represents a maneuvering of 4.8 g . You are unlikely ever to get anywhere close on the average passenger flight in a sustained maneuver ; such a banked turn would be hard even for the pilots to sustain . A " steep turn " , using wing bank in the 20-40 * range , is about the steepest maneuver you 're likely to experience on a commercial airliner , when ATC asks for a " nonstandard turn " during approach or departure to fit the plane through a gap in traffic . Even in this maneuver , you 're unlikely to feel more than about 1.25 g of force pushing you more firmly in your seat . The aircraft , however , can take even more . The DLL is the " safe working load limit " of the aircraft under normal conditions , which pilots and airlines should n't exceed . To prove the airframe can handle that load , every flying airframe is " proofed " to 1.125 x the DLL ( representing a 2.8 g load at MTOW ) which it must survive without structural compromise ( " bending " ) . A sacrificial example of the airframe is also failure-tested to the " Design Ultimate Load " , a static load of 1.5 times the DLL ( representing a 3.75 g load at MTOW ) ; it must withstand at least this load for 3 seconds without structural failure ( " breaking " ) . FAA regs ( Title 14 Part 25 ) state that any " Transport " - category aircraft ( encompassing virtually all commercial airliners ) must be demonstrated to withstand a loading of at least 2.5 g at MTOW , but do not have to be able to withstand more than 3.8 g at MTOW . In addition , there is a general requirement that the aircraft must be able to withstand any vibration , buffeting or turbulent forces that could occur at any speed up to the " design diving speed " VD , and must withstand any additional forces that could be imparted to the aircraft by a failure or malfunction of any part of the flight control system at speeds up to the airframe 's " design cruising speed " , VC . So , all airliners from the little Bombardier narrow-bodies up to the A380 have to be able to at least match the 737 in their g-loading capabilities .
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
You can descend down to 100ft above TDZE if you have any ALS in sight . You need an ALS with red lights ( ALSF I &amp; II ) to go below that . Red terminating bars/red side row bars help you find the threshold . Think of an ALS with red lights as being in the same category as Runway/lights/markings , Threashold/lights/markings , Touchdown Zone/lights/markings , VASI/PAPI , and REIL . Any other type of ALS ( MALSR , MALSF , etc. ) has the 100ft above TDZE restriction put on it when it is the only thing you can see . @mins linked to a couple of helpful articles in the comments .
By motor oil , I assume that you mean automotive motor oil . In that case , it 's a bad idea for a bunch of reasons . First , every airplane POH I 've seen has specified that the oil must qualify to a standard - either MIL-L-6082 or MIL-L-22851 ( though those have been superseded by an SAE standard ) . Modern automotive oil does n't meet that standard , and therefore is effectively forbidden by the POH . More to the point , automotive oil is bad for aviation engines . Aviation and automotive engines work on the same basic principles , but many of the details are different .1 One significant difference is that aviation engines normally burn some oil as they run , while well-performing automobile engines burn little or none . Automotive oil contains a number of additives , such as detergents and wear inhibitors , intended for use where the oil does n't burn off . Some of those additives do not burn completely , but instead stick around in the form of ash , where they can foul the engine and create deposits that lead to pre-ignition . That is why aviation oil is ashless dispersant : it cleans the engine by dispersing combustion byproducts into the oil ( to be removed on the next oil change ) , while being ashless when burned . Lycoming considers it serious enough to put in an all-caps " CAUTION " section in their <URL> document : UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD AUTOMOTIVE OIL BE USED . THE USE OF AUTOMOTIVE LUBRICANTS IN TEXTRON LYCOMING ENGINES IS NOT RECOMMENDED BECAUSE ITS USE COULD CAUSE ENGINE FAILURE . If all of that was n't enough , use of an improper oil may void your engine warranty . In short : do n't use it . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> 1 ) Note that I 'm referring to air-cooled aviation engines that burn 100LL - made by , say , Lycoming or Continental . Rotaxes and new aero-diesels are different , and more like their respective automotive counterparts ; in fact , Thielert engines are actually based on automotive diesels .
The term bearing is not so clear , as the <URL> . But let 's say bearing means the angle between the track ( over ground ) of an aircraft and a fixed location . This position usually is the magnetic or ( true ) geographic north , but within the context of this question , it could also be any location on earth . If the bearing is 90 ° or 270 ° ( perpendicular to fixed location ) , the aircraft just flies circles , in case of using the geographic north , it flies along a line of constant latitude . If the aircraft is flying at a different angle , the trajectory is a spiral , more precisely a <URL> , with curls around that location and the location at the opposite side of the earth : <URL> ( <URL> ) BUT due to the magnetic deviation , the magnetic field does n't point to the ( magnetic ) north pole everywhere on earth . I simulated the trajectory for a quite similar <URL> . The red arrows indicate where the needle of a compass points to . The black line is the trajectory for an aircraft flying a 90 ° - track with respect to the local magnetic field . It is just a deformed circle . The blue line is the trajectory of an aircraft flying a 93.6 ° - track . This is a deformed Rhumb line , and the aircraft coming from KLAX will circle around the magnetic pole at some point like a moth around a light . ( at least mathematically ) <URL>
I assume you 're talking about a light GA airplane ( Cessna/Piper singles or twins ) . The short answer is " Maybe , but you probably should n't . " : The parking brake should only be used for as long as necessary to get wheel chocks in , and should then be released . Aside from making it inconvenient for the local ramp personnel if they need to move/tow your plane , setting the parking brake has a few other downsides which are related to the way the parking brakes work on your typical light aircraft . When you set the parking brake you 're doing two things : You are pressurizing the hydraulic lines that run to the plane 's brakes . You are doing something to prevent that pressure from bleeding back out . ( Exactly how you accomplish this varies depending on the plane - the " parking brake " on a Piper Cherokee is a tab that prevents the brake handle from returning to the " released " position , maintaining pressure in the cylinder . I think the Cessna 150 pressurizes and then turns a valve . ) Because of how the parking brake works it has two common failure modes when it 's set : Pressure can bleed out or it can blow out . Bleeding Out happens because fittings , seals , hoses , etc. in the brake system are n't perfect . Hydraulic fluid will escape past whatever little opening it can find , and eventually there will be insufficient pressure in the system to keep the aircraft from moving . If you happened to be parked on an incline steep enough to get the plane rolling it will then go off on its own down the hill just as if you had n't set the brake ( and you will be very confused when you get back to where you left it ) . Blowing Out typically happens on hot summer days when there are n't many little openings for pressure to leak out through : 5606 Hydraulic Oil ( the stuff in the brake lines ) expands as it gets warm , and with the parking brake set it does n't have anywhere to go ( it ca n't get back to the main brake reservoir ) . If you land at 11:00 ( local time ) , set the parking brake , and go have a nice leisurely lunch there is a good chance that when you return to the plane at 13:00 or 14:00 you will find that the hydraulic fluid in your brake system has blown out of whatever the weakest point in the system is ( often the seals on the toe brake cylinders , sometimes around the calipers , occasionally a hose fitting fails ) . This means you 're going to have a mess of hydraulic fluid to clean up at best , and at worst if you 're on a hill you 're in the same situation as above ( the plane has gone rolling away ) , only now there 's hydraulic fluid all over as well ( sometimes in a little red trail to wherever the plane has wound up ) . So bottom line : Try to avoid leaving the parking brake set for extended periods of time , especially if there might be a temperature increase while it 's set . Instead bring your chocks with you ( if you own your own plane , or even if you 're a renter , pick up a set of " travel chocks " - they 're right at or just under 1 pound , you wo n't even notice them ) and chock your wheels when you leave the plane . Ramp personnel will be able to spot the chock easily , and they 're unlikely to fail . Ideally you would also tie the aircraft down if possible , but some ramps do n't have tiedowns ( and others are bring-your-own-rope ) .
You should wash your aircraft in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . We could all offer opinions and product recommendations in response to this question . However , the best answer is : in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . Since you ask the question generically , without any information on what aircraft you might have , I will answer generically . Your manufacturer 's instructions can generally be found in at least two places : the owner 's manual/AFM and the maintenance manual . For example , in the owners manual for a 1975 Cessna 172M , you will find Section V : Care of The Airplane containing instructions on how to wash painted surfaces , bare aluminum surfaces , interior surfaces , and the windscreen and windows . The maintenance manual for the same aircraft contains nearly -- if not exactly -- identical information in chapter 2 . Now , for that aircraft and others , Cessna recommends use of mild detergent in certain applications ; you might not find that overly helpful in choosing what to use . Based on my research and experience , and time honored practice that I 've observed , Dawn dish soap is widely used for cleaning painted Cessna aircraft with no apparent long term harmful effects . The airframe that I fly for work has tens of thousands of hours on it , and while I can not vouch for how often it was washed in the past , I try to wash parts of it a few times a week . There is no apparent washing damage to the paint . I will also highlight Cessna 's instruction to use Stoddard solvent on areas of stubborn oil or grease ; this can be especially helpful in cleaning the belly with it 's typical collection of oil and dirt . My practice is typically to wipe down the belly with solvent first , and then follow with a water and detergent wash . If the manufacturer 's instructions are not clear , or are otherwise insufficient to answer your question regarding your specific aircraft , I would recommend asking your maintenance professional . He or she should have both the knowledge and experience to steer you in the right direction . For more insight into the world of aircraft cleaning , and especially for the specific product recommendations you want , you might take a look at this AvWeb article by Kim Santerre : <URL> .
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
end question
start question
What sort of issues related to extreme heat ( 115 ° F , 46 ° C plus ) would prevent takeoffs or landings ?
Short Answer Very high temperatures limit how much payload and/or fuel you can load on a plane . Engines To help you visualize it , in hot air the air molecules are more energetic , which means the engine will have hard time compressing hot air vs. cool air . Losing thrust . Wings Hot air -- with the molecules spaced farther apart -- has less density , which reduces the lift capability of wings . Hot and High Vegas is not only hot , but also high , which means the air pressure is already less than at sea-level . Each plane has its own performance charts , and on each flight , the flight dispatcher and crew make sure the weather , elevation , etc. , would allow a safe take-off and climb . A plane is configurable for such changing elements . For example using higher thrust setting , or more flaps to augment the lift . If you have a very heavy plane , hot and high situation , and a short runway , then things become very marginal -- Engine Out -- not just for the take-off run , but also in case of an engine out during take-off , i.e. , losing an engine . The plane still has to be able to climb . That 's why in places like Ethiopia , South Africa , Australia , etc. , airlines preferred1 quad-jet planes over twin-jet planes . To have bigger margin of safety in hot and/or high operations , i.e. , to be allowed to carry heavier loads . 1 When tri/quad-jets were commonly offered alongside <URL> twin-jets of same class . Example of Impact ( Map generated using <URL> ) A cargo MD-11 plane taking off from Ethiopia en-route to Europe ca n't take off fully fueled , and has to stop in Cairo for a re-fuel . Note that if Ethiopia were at sea-level or cooler , a direct flight would have been possible . Landing For landing in a hot and/or high airport , the landing speed will be higher , so what matters is the runway length available for landing . Again there are performance tables for that . Rest assured , those things are checked and double checked . And no one can tamper with reported weather , because it is very critical to flight safety . Also , planes do have their own temperature sensors . Newer planes can even alert the crew if the gross-weight , configuration , runway length , temperature , and elevation <URL> .
No , there is no decrease or change with the use of pitot heat . The pitot system measures pressure . There is no airflow through the system in normal operation . Any airflow through the system would be due to a system failure which led to leakage .
A single engine plane yaws to the opposite direction of the engine spinning . This is called the <URL> It 's the same with a twin , with both engines rotating into the same direction . Rudder input is needed to fly straight . When the engines operate symmetrically , this effect cancelles out . The plane is easier to fly . It 's also explained in <URL> . An example of a counter-rotating multi-engine plane is the <URL> . [ The P-38 ] featured two 1,000 hp ( 746 kW ) turbosupercharged 12-cylinder Allison V-1710 engines fitted with counter-rotating propellers to eliminate the effect of engine torque . Counter-rotation was achieved by the use of " handed " engines , which meant the crankshaft of each engine turned in the opposite direction of its counterpart . If the engines are turning in the same direction , then if either fails , the net p-factor will not be the same . See : <URL> .
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
I am not sure about all aircraft types , but on the 777 cabin pressure is still used to positively lock the door into position in flight . When the door is open , the door is in a slightly raised position . As the door is closed , rollers on the door are lowered into tracks on the door frame . The tracks are curved slightly outwards , so to open the door the it most be moved slightly inward , which is impossible even with a slight amount of cabin pressure . The actual pressure load on the door is carried through the stops , which are inboard on the door and outboard on the frame . Once loaded with the pressure , these stops would also have a tremendous amount of friction preventing the door from sliding upward . Note the vent door near the top of the door in the picture below , this door is attached to the latching mechanism and it opens in the first movement of the handle , again preventing the door from unlatching if the cabin is pressurized . Refer to this picture of the 777 door , to see the rollers , tracks and stops ( <URL> ) . <URL> I believe the 777 design is very similar to the Airbus design . There is a very good video showing the operation of Airbus doors on YouTube , <URL> . It shows how the door must be lifted above the stops , before it can open outward . If you watch closely you can see the move slight inboard before lifting . This is a quote from the A340 maintenance manual : The lifting arms of the lifting shaft ( which support the passenger door in roller fittings attached to the door frame ) move the passenger door a small distance into the cabin and then upwards . " Note , some people ( including Airbus and Boeing ) still consider these doors plug designs since pressure still loads the door against the stops . For example , Boeing specifically states the 777 doors are plug type doors .
VERICOR POWER SYSTEMS has a patent for these valves , number and title The patent includes the following image : SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide for a control and method for arresting flashback in a gas turbine engine combustion system having a venturi for delivering a mixture of air and fuel to a combustion chamber and a valve for controlling the amount of air flowing to the venturi . The present invention achieves this object by providing a flashback control system and method having a flashback detection routine , a valve position trim routine , and a reference flame temperature adjustment routine . The flashback detection routine detects a flashback in the venturi by comparing the temperature at the venturi to the temperature of the air entering the valve . The valve position trim routine receives this flashback signal and in response causes the valve to open until the flashback is arrested . Finally , to prevent the flashback from recurring , the reference flame temperature adjustment routine adjusts a reference flame temperature in the control system so as to prevent the valve from returning to the position at which the flashback occurred . These and other objects , features and advantages of the present invention , are specifically set forth in , or will become apparent from , the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings . The patent can be <URL> , however , it has expired .
Lets back up a minute and discuss what is required to enter C and D airspace . For C and D airspace you must establish 2 way radio communications with tower or approach controller . Let 's first discuss how this works if you are not taking Flight Following . As you approach Class C airspace you hail them and wait for a response , for example , You : " Allentown Approach Piper 1234J @ 3000 en route to Queen City Municipal " Controller : " 1234J Squawk 1-3-5-2 and Ident " Since the controller responded with your tail number you may enter the Charlie airspace ( Delta has the same requirements ) . Now when you are under Flight Following , ATC will coordinate a handoff to the Approach or Tower for the airspace you are about to enter , or ATC will say " radar services terminated , " and you must contact the controller/tower yourself before entering . You SHOULD NOT change frequencies until you are told to do so , since ATC may be trying to give you a traffic advisory . You can however tune your second radio ( if you have one ) to the approach/tower you are approaching , and begin to monitor traffic .
No . This would require a docile pitch behavior of the airframe up to approx . 110 ° angle of attack . The <URL> is based on a geometry that has been carefully optimized by <URL> to behave nicely over its full AoA range , a care that has not been spent by <URL> . The specifications did not call for it , because the idea was to create a low-cost lightweight fighter to complement the heavy F-15 . However , even the F-15 is AoA limited because less care was spent on its aerodynamic refinement . At higher angles of attack , both the F-16 and the F-15 show a nasty pitch-up which can not be controlled with the aerodynamic control surfaces - only thrust vectoring can manage this . Contrast this which the Su-27 , which shows balanced and slightly negative ( nose down ) pitch moments over the full AoA range , so the limited control authority coupled with the aircraft 's dynamics can make the Cobra maneuver possible .
None . While a number of aircraft are certified for autoland with automatic rollout until safe taxi speed , and some can have the autopilot control rollout until the aircraft completely stops , no commercial aircraft has autopilot control of various critical parts for landing such as the flaps and the landing gear .
In general , land based aircraft do not lend themselves well to carrier conversion . On the other hand , conversion in opposite direction is ( relatively ) easy , as shown by F-4 and F-18 . Conversion of aircraft to carrier use require a number of modifications : Tail hook has to added and rear fuselage reinforced for arrested landings . Landing gear has to be strengthened for high sink rate ( ~ 24 ft/s ) . Atleast in USN , the front landing gear and fuselage has to be strengthened for catapult launches . Also , it requires additional equipment , like th Carrier Landing system , redesigned refueling system ( pretty much everyone use a system different from USAF ) . Carrier based aircraft usually are expected to have better low speed capabilities as they have to fly slower approaches and wave-off ( go-around ) at lower speed compared to the land based aircraft . This dictates the wing loading , resulting in increased wing area and/or high lift devices . There are also issues in corrosion prevention etc. . The weight penalty due to these reasons can be non negligible . For example , the naval Rafale M version weighs nearly 500 kg more than the Air Force Rafale C variant ( which has ~ 10 ton empty weight ) . USN calculated that the NATF ( Naval Advanced Tactical Fighter ) will be around 1800 kg heavier than the Air force version ( ATF was supposed to weigh ~ 15 ton ) . Another thing is that the USAF and USN had different requirements , for example , the USAF wanting a single seater and USN wanting a double seater , requirement of different sensors ( for fleet defence ) etc. in the end , the aircraft proposed for the NATF looked nothing similar to the one that finally became the F-22 and the project was quietly buried . <URL> F-22 NATF proposal , image from aerospaceweb.org Note that the design has swing wings , as the aircraft was being proposed for replacing F-14 Tomcat . Another important result of the navalization of the aircraft is the reduction in the number of planform alignments , and their negative impact on the stealth characteristics . Carrier conversion of F-22 could have been done if it was considered early in design . Doing it now ( note that NATF was considered due to the insistence of Congress ; it is doubtful if USN ever wanted it ) . Doing so later in the design process will result in another F-111B fiasco . As for doing it now , it is better to design a new aircraft ( which was what the F-35 is ) .
As of now , there are no commercially available engine particle ingestion sensors , though a few are under development . One of the companies involved in development lays out the <URL> : As of today , no commercial off-the-shelf particulate sensor is in use because of the special design and difficult requirements for operation and performance in this harsh environment , according to Dr. Hai Lin of Hal Technology in Fontana , California . There are multiple sensors under development like the <URL> which is used to determine the particle ingestion by the <URL> , where dust and sand is a bigger problem , if anything . All of these sensors work on a similar principle - they measure the scattering of light by the particles using a optical sensor . The sensor detects light scattering from moving particles as optical pulsed signals whose amplitudes are proportional to size and whose number is proportional to concentration . This sensor technology can determine particle size , distribution , concentration and further be extended for composition . In future most of these systems are expected to available commercially , as While continuing to advance this technology for particulate composition determination , Hal Technology is pursuing a licensing agreement or partnership with sensor or engine manufacturers to have the sensor integrated into engine heath management systems of the future .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
If someone can get chemicals on board a flight , they can also get a bomb on . Bombs are easier to make and more effective . Better air-conditioning wo n't help here , better security will . It is possible to isolate the toilet ... but the problem apparently was n't just inside the toilet . The toilet is n't pressure sealed , so some smell will escape regardless . It 's impossible to completely seal the toilet from the rest of the aircraft , and could be potentially dangerous if it was The aircraft does introduce fresh air into the cabin , but the compressors to do so only have a fixed capacity . The capacity of these could be increased , but at the price of extra weight , fuel consumption and cost , it 's not worthwhile for the 1 time in 100 million that a flight has to turn around for this reason . Even with higher capacities , it 's not possible to just constantly flush the cabin air - and remember that all that air needs to be compressed ( to maintain pressure ) heated , and filtered . All of that costs more money , and adds more complexity , weight etc. .
The Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) or Second In Command ( SIC ) can not log the approach . FAA has <URL> : You then ask if , for the purposes of maintaining instrument currency , an instrument approach on the above flight flown by the PIC can be logged as an instrument approach by the SIC . The answer is no . As the SIC you have not " performed " the approach as contemplated by FAR 61.57 ( c ) because you were not the sole manipulator of the controls during the approach .
A <URL> is that a stick pusher is a : ... device that pushes forward on the elevator control system whenever the aircraft 's angle of attack reaches the pre-determined value , and then ceases to push when the angle of attack falls sufficiently . A <URL> is : A stick pusher system incorporates both a passive monitoring component and an active intervention component that consists of an hydraulic or electro-mechanical pusher mechanism . The monitoring component constantly evaluates critical flight parameters such as airspeed , load factor and flap setting against the aircraft angle of attack . If the angle of attack reaches a predetermined value , the intervention component of the system is activated and pushes forward on the elevator control system until the angle of attack is reduced to an acceptable value . The system operates autonomously and without any required action by the pilots . FAA has an <URL> for stick pusher training . For Embraer 145 , <URL> shows a demo of stick shaker , stick pusher and the warning systems .
Incidental costs specific to the passenger , such as O2 for the passenger 's medical condition , may be paid by the passenger and need not be factored into the cost of the flight for flight sharing costs . In your example , the Hobbs charge for the aircraft is the flight cost . If the passenger wants a headset , or anything else that is not a flight expense , the cost need not be shared . Landing fees , navigation fees and the like are grey areas , and I would split those . But something like a tie-down or hangar fee is not a flight expense , and the passenger may pay for in full . If you read cases where the FAA has prosecuted pilots for conducting operations " for hire " or similar , they tend to be egregious . So in your example , $ 60 would be the right answer . I would suggest that you could even split the cost of the charts you might buy for the trip . As a final word , I would make certain that your passenger understands that you are just sharing expenses , not that they are " paying for a ride . "
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
The air is compressed in the compressor section of the engine and heats up . Hot air is able to hold disproportionally more water in gaseous form than cold air , so all that water will vaporize and enter the combustion process together with the air . Since it is already vaporized , it will not absorb that <URL> again that makes water such a good extinguishing agent . On the other hand , since the evaporation enthalpy was sucked from the air in the compression process , the air will be cooler when it enters the combustion chamber , so more fuel can be burnt ( up to the <URL> ratio of course ) and power can be increased . This trick was used on high performance piston engines and early jets . The <URL> would inject water into the compressor on purpose on hot and high take-offs to increase engine thrust . If the amount of water entering the engine overwhelms the absorbing capacity of the hot air , the engine runs the risk of flaming out . Regular precipitation does not pose this threat , however .
tl ; dr The flame would progress upstream into the compressor until it and damage it , fatally disrupt the carefully balanced flow and stall the engine , or both . long answer : In a turbine engine , there is a continuous flame where injected fuel is ignited by the already burning fuel downstream . Now you ca n't match the flow speed and the flame propagation speed exactly , because a small disruption could then blow out the engine and because both depend on the power setting in non-trivial way . So in normal operation , the flame can propagate upstream until it gets to the point where the fuel is not yet sufficiently mixed with air to burn and there it stays . If you injected the fuel before the compressor , the flame would progress into it and as it would engulf the last stage , it would damage it and it would also increase the pressure beyond what the preceding stages could maintain , which would stall the compressor and cause the engine to stop , either immediately due to lack of oxygen , or by causing more damage with each stall cycle . Note that spark-ignition ( gasoline and LPG and CNG ) engines usually do inject fuel before compression , but it limits their compression ratio to around 12:1 with high-octane gasoline , 14:1 with clever tricks . If the compression ratio was higher , the fuel-air mixture would ignite from the compression heat before the piston reaches the top-dead-centre and act against the rotation . In contrast compression-ignition ( Diesel ) engines have compression ratio at least 14:1 and inject the fuel only when it should start burning . While early turbines had rather low compression ratios , the newest generation is getting into the range comparable with Diesel engines where the fuel might ignite due to the compression heat alone -- they still use sparks for ignition , because the starter wo n't build up as high pressures in them , but it clearly shows they ca n't inject the fuel before it should start burning .
<URL> it says on page 4 : ... for a new Class B cargo compartment definition as well as design criteria for a new Class F cargo compartment type . This latter class of compartment was introduced because whilst it was concluded that manual fire fighting was not feasible for larger compartments , alternatives other than just the existing Class C were identified . And a bit further on page 5 ( emphasis mine ) : ... Further , a new Class F cargo compartment definition is added , which is not limited in size and which provides the means to control or extinguish a fire without requiring a crewmember to enter the compartment . This proposed Class F compartment standard accommodates the carriage of large amounts of baggage and cargo loads on Combi aeroplanes as well as in compartments of smaller sizes exceeding the new Class B definition . New aeroplanes designs can take advantage from the variable solutions under the Class F definitions to ensure an acceptable level of fire protection . And more concrete : The AMC further provides guidance for usage of other fire protection means in the new Class F compartment such as Fire Containment Covers ( FCC ) or Containers rather than having a liner installed to contain a fire and to protect the critical systems and structure of the aeroplane . I guess it 's meant to allow storage of cargo in non-cargo areas ( which do not have the adequate fire protection measures such as liners ) if other non-traditional measures are installed ( such as the Fire Containment Covers )
end question
start question
What is the average time taken to load and unload the luggage ?
Another Airbus <URL> mentions ( on page 188 , section 5-2-1 ) full load of A380 as and rate of loading and unloading as From this calculation best case is they can finish unloading and loading within just above 30 minutes . However this is not possible since there will be some delay due to the fact that there are other things to be done during turn around that may disrupt exchange of cargo . Also other services such as cleaning need to be done during turn around time . Airbus provides 2 scenarios for turn around time - 90 minutes if both decks are serviced at the same time . - 140 minutes if both decks are serviced only from the main deck .
The time taken for the daily maintenance or ' A ' checks ( or any other checks for that matter ) depends on a number of parameters like : The aircraft configuration . The experience and skill level of the aircrew . The condition ( or age ) of the aircraft and its components . Requirement of any special checks ( whether manufacturer/regulator mandated or operator requirement ) Usually , the checks to be carried out during each schedule ( hourly or calender based ) are determined by the manufacturer ( sometimes in co-ordination with the operator ) and laid down . The time required is then calculated by actually timing the operations and adding correction factors or by statistical analysis over a period of time . One thing to note is that this is not exact and will vary based on a number of factors . For the same checks , different operators ( and manufacturer ) may allot different time periods . If two different checks ( for e.g. airframe and the engine ) are required to be carried out at the same time , the time required will differ .
Just imagine an aerobatic aircraft going straight up and rolling at the same trime - sure it will have positive lift on one side and negative on the other while accelerating into the roll or when stopping the rolling motion . Note that during a constant rolling motion while in a vertical climb the overall rolling moment and the <URL> both are zero . Also , wing twist will cause very little lift or even a small downforce at the wingtip at low angle of attack . I remember that the wingtips of the <URL> and <URL> gliders would point downwards from the negative lift at high speed . The high aspect ratio glass fiber wing would bend a lot and indicate the local lift with a local change in curvature . However , if you were flying an approach , the aircraft should have flown too slowly to allow for that condition , unless it also started to roll violently from the lift asymmetry . If you had to apply full aileron to counter a gust-induced rolling moment , that very aileron deflection would avoid any negative lift on one of the wingtips . This only leaves the possibility that you had negative lift for a very short moment and over a small part of the wing when the gust hit you and before you countered the rolling motion with the ailerons .
Modern Air Combat Maneuvering takes place between about 350 to 600 KIAS ; There is no specific speed but each aircraft has a specific optimal cornering velocity which gives it the greatest rate of turn in order to maximize its maneuverability . Pilots will seek to maintain this speed when entering a merge as it can give them the greatest maneuvering advantage in order to turn inside on opponent or for jinking to evade a cannon or a missile shot . As an example , the Lockheed Martin Block 50/52 F-16C has a cornering velocity of 420 KIAS . Traditionally air combat has been about energy management . Fighter pilots have something in common with economists in that they are engaged in the art of managing the flow of currency ; in the case of the pilot that currency is energy and not money . The total energy state of a fighter is : current energy state = energy in - energy out . The current energy state is the sum of the kinetic energy , proportional to the square of the velocity of the jet and the potential energy of the jet , which is proportional to its height above the ground . Energy leaves the system in the form of parasite and induced drag acting over a distance as well as loss of altitude , which is proportional to the flat plate area of the jet , load factor , AoA , etc. . Energy enters the system at a rate proportional to the amount of jet fuel burned ; this supply is limited to the fuel onboard which again affects the mass of the jet , the induced drag , etc. . So keeping this in mind , a good fighter pilot will seek a way in which he/she can maneuver through space , gaining the best speed and turning performance for the least amount of energy consumed , in order to land in an advantageous position to employ the weapons against an enemy jet . These kinds of speeds vary between if the jet is on the offensive or defensive in relation to a threat . So a pilot maintaining that optimal energy state is in the best position to attack , or defend against an attack , and a pilot in a very low energy state is very vulnerable - " low and slow , you 're outta dough " - and could be quickly killed in a multi-jet furball . The cornering velocity is preferred for this reason if maneuvering is anticipated ( a given if the jet is about to enter a merge ) . With the advent of terminal homing , beyond visual range missiles allowing pilots to stand off from the fight and shoot a threat before it could get close enough to turn with them , higher speed cruise , along with a capability to maneuver well at those higher speeds has become an advantage . It allows a pilot to more quickly close with an enemy aircraft into the missile 's ' no escape ' zone , fire , and then turn and dash from the threat , minimizing their presence in an enemy 's ' no escape ' zone whereby enemy missiles simple do n't have the available energy to catch you . This was the basis for supercruise - supersonic cruise without the use of afterbruners - on the ATF / F-22 program . Combined with good frontal stealth to minimize the detection range by enemy fighters , supercruise could give a Raptor jock a major advantage in the BVR areana - near invincibility in BVR engagements against non stealthy fighters , if the published results of the Red Flag and other military exercises are to be believed .
There is a ( relatively ) new requirement for Flight Attendants ( on aircraft with more than 20 passenger seats ) to be certified as per the FAA . This was done in the <URL> , in section 814 if you want to read it . The applicable CFR is <URL> . In summary it says : You have to have a certificate of demonstrated proficiency , this looks like a pilots license . Demonstrated compliance with the air carrier approved training program . Proficiency to read , speak , and write English Comprehend written material in English Ability to write incident reports and log entries/statements Carry out written and oral instructions Now , the actual physical requirements are up to the airline , as long as the individual can complete the training program , they are physically allowed to become a flight attendant ( physical appearance requirements aside ) . As for " legally " allowed , they need to be able to pass the same TSA background checks that pilots are subject to . So legally , almost all airlines require : U.S. Citizen or appropriate work visa Be able to enter/exit the United States without any issues ( no visa problems with other countries , although for regionals this may not apply ) Be able to pass a TSA/FBI background check No DUI or felony convictions within the past 10 years There is n't a lot more " legal " to it than that , they do n't have to demonstrate the use of safety equipment if the airline 's training program does n't require it .
A VNAV with localiser approach is normally a backup to a regular ILS should there be a glide slope unserviceability . The use of VNAV to manage the vertical portion of the approach would allow the use of APV minima which are normally lower than using a vertical speed mode . VNAV is a better mode when conducting non-precision approaches as the aircraft is still following a defined glideslope - albeit derived from a database - which is more accurate than trying to follow a tabled set of heights and distances using vertical speed .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
Yes , the limits are always set by the worst combination of weight , loading , flight speed and expected gust speed . They are valid over the full range of parameters for simplicity reasons . Note that the load factor limits are not directly proportional to the aircraft 's overall weight , but the <URL> . An empty fuselage and full wing tanks allow the aircraft to pull more gs or fly faster until the maximum wing bending moment is reached when flying through the maximum expected gust . Calculating the precise load limit during each stage of a flight would put excessive demands on any pilot and increase the risk of errors . All components should be sized so that they fail at 150 % of calculated maximum loads . In real aircraft some secondary considerations like the availability of sheet metal gauges or extruded profiles put a limit to this local optimization , but technically the chance for breaking is the same for all structural parts . All the failures described in your question have happened in the past when aircraft were overstressed or improperly designed .
As you measure temperature moving at high velocities , your outside thermometer will measure a higher temp than what is actually outside ( what a non-moving thermometer would get ) . That 's because as the air rams into your thermometer it gets a little bit compressed , and that makes it heat up a little bit . Amazingly , some smart people have even calculated how much that " ram rise " is , and you can actually compensate ( well , in theory ) from the indicated temperature to calculate what the actual outside air temp is : $ $ Ram ~ Rise = SAT \ times0 .2 \ times { M } ^ 2 $ $ Where $ SAT$ is Static Air Temperature in Kelvin , $ M$ is Mach number Problem is , not all instruments will compress that air in the same way , and not all of them will pick up this Ram Rise entirely . So they will publish a $ K$ , a ram-rise-coefficient ( also called recovery factor ) meaning how much of from the theoretical Ram Rise they actually pick up . ( OAT/SAT ) Static Air Temperature = noted as $ T_S $ , actual temperature of the air outside , the same your thermometer will pick up if you were not moving ( say , in a balloon ? ) ( RAT ) Ram Air Temperature = noted as $ T_M $ , actual measured temperature by your instrument . $ $ RAT = SAT + k \ times { Ram ~ Rise } $ $ ( TAT ) Total Air Temperature = noted as $ T_T $ , total temperature as measured by an instrument with $ K$ - coefficient of $ 1 $ . $ $ TAT = SAT+R am ~ Rise $ $
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
Independent of airspeed , angle of bank gives you the " G " force in a level coordinated turn . A 60 degree bank = 2 G 's , at any speed . At low speed , a given G force will give you a greater heading change than it would at a high speed . Driving your car at 10 mph you can complete a U-turn , 180 degrees of heading change , in a couple seconds without pinning passengers against the door , but at highway speeds , even a hard turn that does impose big side-loads will take much longer to give you that much heading change . Related to all this is turn radius : at low speed , your turn radius for any given loading ( bank angle ) is smaller than it would be at a higher speed with that same loading/bank angle . Thus , even though you 're going slower , you have less distance ( circumference of the circle ) to cover , and so you are able to complete the circle ( or one 360th of it ) more quickly . ( ( For the pedantic ones , everything here assumes level , coordinated turns . Change those assumptions enough , things can be different , but those are n't particularly instructive cases until the base case is understood . ) )
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
The answer is 19,428 , but I could only get there by <URL> ' MRJT ' to get the missing information : <URL> DOM + all of the fuel is 43,372 . And since MSTOM is 62,800 , that leaves you with 19,428 for payload ( allowable traffic load ) . $ $ 62,800 - ( 27,372 + 12,000 + 4,000 ) = 19,428 $ $ Below you can see the calculations for MTOM , MLM , and MZFM . Since the traffic load for the ' MTOM limited case ' is the lowest , the maximum traffic load for the flight is 19,428 kg . ( Table courtesy of DeltaLima . )
Having recently weighed my plane I can tell you what 's involved for determining the Basic Empty Weight for a small aircraft : The aircraft equipment list is checked and updated . This is kind of important as the equipment list includes the weight and arm of everything installed on the airframe . If this list is not accurate future weight and balance updates based on adding/removing equipment using the weights and arms on that list will be incorrect , and your computed weight and balance will start to diverge from the actual weight and balance until the plane is weighed again . The aircraft interior is cleaned to " factory empty " status . Pens , pencils , 3-year-old charts , note pads , and other things not on the equipment list are all removed , and things like tow bars are placed in their appropriate location/holder . The aircraft is serviced with " fluids " per the manufacturer 's procedures for weighing . For most small planes this means de-fueled , full engine oil , &amp; full hydraulic/brake fluid . The shop sets up and zeros their scales . You tow/push the aircraft onto the scales . ( Or lift it on jack stands with integrated scales designed for this purpose . ) The aircraft is leveled on the scales . The plane must be leveled laterally ( left-to-right ) and longitudinally ( nose-to-tail ) , otherwise the computations made later will be inaccurate . The numbers on the scales are recorded . The Weight and Balance is determined : Add the numbers from all scales used . This is your Empty Weight . You do some math on the scale numbers to determine the Center of Gravity . ( Since you know the station/arm of each scale you can figure out the CG based on the weights ) As Terry mentioned , setting up took more time than the actual weighing and calculations . In my case I spent about a day straightening out the equipment list , and the shop that did the weighing spent about 20 minutes verifying that I had n't missed anything . Defueling the aircraft adds a significant amount of time to the process as well . Moving the plane onto the scales and leveling it took approximately 15 minutes , and doing the math took maybe another 5 minutes . On larger aircraft <URL> - load cells integrated into a taxiway or ramp area are another option for doing this . I 'm not sure if aircraft that can determine their operating weight ( by load cells installed in the gear assembly ) can also determine their own empty weight - I know the weighing report I received includes calibration information for the scales used , so presumably weighing a large aircraft using its built-in load cells would require those cells to be properly ( traceably ) calibrated prior to using them for this purpose .
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
These terms obviously stem from an Airbus flight deck . Anything selected represents pilot 's discretion . If you want to keep a certain speed , HDG or altitude , you would pull the corresponding FCU ( Flight Control Unit = Autopilot Panel ) knob . This means in Airbus philosophy : I have control . Anything managed represents a flight management calculation . If you want to fly , e.g. in the most economic way , you push the corresponding FCU knob and therewith " handover the controls to the aircraft " . The calculations for managed autopilot options are derived from e.g. gross weight entries on the INIT page or current gross weight , Angle of Attack , Air Data Computers , Cost Index , ... depending on the flight phase . So , you always prefer to follow the economically calculated way and use managed modes . Whenever ATC requests you to keep a certain speed , sink/climb rate , heading whatever , you pull the knobs and select the target values .
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
According to Wikipedia <URL> an American carrier type Kitty Hawk has a catapult capable of accelerating a mass of 35000 kg to 139 knots ( 71,51 m/s ) , and the system 's stroke is 76 m. From the terminal speed and the stroke , a simple calculation gives a mean acceleration of 33,64 m/s/s . Hence , and assuming the acceleration constant along the stroke , the time needed to reach 60 mph = 26,81 m/s is t = v/a = > t = 26,81 / 33.64 = > t = 0,796 seconds ...
end question
start question
Which refers to CFI renewal based on pass rate , " activities " or " duties and responsibilities " ?
You want to check the Activities box . The phrasing is a little weird , and it certainly does n't line up with the regs ( see <URL> ) , but that 's what you want : ( 2 ) Submitting a completed and signed application with the FAA and satisfactorily completing one of the following renewal requirements -- ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . [ ... ] So , best as I can tell , that means : § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( i ) is activity - 80 % pass rate on 5 + students in the preceding 24 calendar months . § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( ii ) is duties and responsibilities - serving in a position that involves standardization flights or stage checks . Disclaimer : unfortunately , all of the AOPA material on CFI renewal is designed to get you to buy their FIRC ( eyeroll ) , and the unhelpful <URL> says squat as well . I 'm having a hard time finding a reference that proves my interpretation , but I know it 's correct !
I think one thing that does not get emphasized enough : Pilots do not land airplanes!In fact , we try to keep the airplane flying as long as possible ! We systematically rob the airplane of energy ( energy from engine power , energy from airspeed , energy from altitude ) until the plane can no longer fly , and settles gently on the runway . But even as the plane is landing , the pilot is still trying to coax it back into the air to remove as much energy as possible . A big student mistake is to point the airplane at the runway , and try to force it to land there . That leads to landings too fast , too high , big bounces , porpoising , and sometimes nose-in crashes . So do n't think about " how am I going to land this thing ? " Instead think about " How am I going to remove more energy from the equation to lose altitude and airspeed ? " A landing is a series of precise targets you are aiming to hit , each with less energy than the last one ( but each one still with enough energy to keep flying and be safe ) Each target consists of Position ( horizontal and altitude ) , airspeed , and descent rate . You hit each of these targets at 3 different points on a square ( abeam the numbers , downwind-to-base , and base-to-final ) Hitting a target that consists of a position + airspeed + descent rate is not easy ! But the more precisely you can hit each target , the easier the next part is . Although I hope I 'm repeating the same instructions you 've already heard , for the sake of the Site , let me re-iterate the standard instructions for a C-172 . Be level at TPA ( airport + 1000 feet ) , and at a cruise speed of approximately 100 kts . The runway should be approx 3/4 of the way up your strut . When you are abeam the numbers , Carb Heat ( if applicable ) , throttle back to approx 1,600 RPM , and pull-back as necessary to maintain altitude ( the consequence will be that you slow down ) . Watch your speed , altitude and position . Drop flaps 10 & deg ; when speed allows , and aim to hit a speed of 85 kts , an altitude loss of 250 feet , and have the numbers at 45 & deg ; behind you , all at the same time . Turn the corner to base , using approximately 30 & deg ; of bank angle . Continue to reduce speed ( by pulling back ) to hit 75 kts , and drop altitude another 250 ft. ( you 're now 500 ft above the runway ) . Add Flaps 20 when appropriate . Turn the corner to final . You can " oval " your turn if you are undershooting the centerline , but do NOT over-bank if you have overshot the centerline . Aim for the centerline , acquire a PAPI/VASI , keep an eye on your airspeed relative to approach speed ( 68 kts ) . Watch 3 and ONLY 3 things : Airspeed ( Slowing towards 68 kts ) Centerline ( left ? right ? on target ? ) Slope ( PAPI/VASI ? Light configuration ) . Keep repeating " Airspeed , Centerline , Slope " out loud , describe if you 're too far/too close on each one , and describe how you 're going to correct . For example : " Airspeed : 75 kts ; too fast ; pulling back to slow down " " Centerline : Left of center ; coming slightly right " " Slope : 3 red +1 white is too low ; adding power to slow descent " ( repeat ! ) When the runway is made , drop final flaps , engine to idle , and prepare to flare when you 're about 10-15 feet , and hopefully right at the numbers . Remember that your altitudes are 1000 , 750 , 500 , touchdown . And your airspeeds are 85 , 75 , 65 .
I 've heard about lots of bird strike incidents that occured during a takeoff roll or the early phase of takeoff climb but hardly heard of bird strikes on approach or landing . This is always a dangerous thing . Only because you hear more bird strikes that occur on takeoff , it does not mean there are more at takeoff . I found , for example , <URL> about bird strikes from the year 2000 . It says : [ ... ] 38 % of the bird strikes occurred during take-off and climb , and 56 % during approach [ ... ] That means there are more bird strikes during approach than on takeoff . I assume things have n't changed a lot since then . This question is even answered in the <URL> : Q : Do most bird strikes occur while in flight , at takeoff , or landing ? A : About 60 % of bird strikes with civil aircraft occur during landing phases of flight ( descent , approach and landing roll ) ; 37 % occur during take-off run and climb ; and the remainder occur during the en-route phase . A more specific statistic : <URL> <URL> Possible reason for subjective perception of bird-strikes happening more often during departure I thought a little about it and came to following possible reason : After a bird-strike on final , the pilots will continue landing . It would be unwise not to land immediately . For the passengers it will look like a normal landing . If the bird damages the engine , there is only a small change of sound , because the engines are running very low . However , when a bird-strike occurs while taking off , there is immediate action taken by the pilots . And because the engines are at or near full thrust , the sound of a dying engine can be perceived by the passengers . Last but not least , a departing aircraft has a much higher speed than a landing one , which means more damage . So , for newspapers , a bird-strike at take-off is more <URL> . More damage to the plane than a bird-strike on final Passengers not reaching their destination Dramatic passenger interviews about their " near-death-experience " A newspaper is not interested in a bird-strike on final , where everything went fine and no passenger noticed anything . To support my theorem , I googled " bird strike " and clicked on the " News " - tab . I looked through every article that had to do something with an bird-strike incident . 5 out of 6 articles were about a bird-strike on take-off . That 's over 80 % .
This depends on the rules of engagement for a country and how the intercepting aircraft are instructed to act . Radio Contact The intercepting aircraft will try to establish radio contact on the <URL> available . 121.500 MHz or for NATO aircraft 243.000 MHz . Visual Contact Unless there is an imminent threat , the intercepting aircraft can position next to the intruding aircraft and establish visual contact with the pilots . There is also standardized procedures , such as the infamous rocking of wings . <URL> ( Image Source : <URL> ) Flares Unless at high altitude , ground based units can shoot flares to attract attention and inform aircraft that they are entering prohibited or restricted airspace .
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
There is more information available from NATS on the website on <URL> [ TBS ] and from a very descriptive <URL> PDF . While Heathrow ( EGLL ) is the first airport where this is being researched and tested , there are als other works , such as a research paper called <URL> PDF which applies TBS at Charles Des Gaulles ( LFPG ) . The main focus of using TBS is to increase airport capacity during strong headwind operations , which significantly decrease groundspeed and therefore traffic flow . None of the papers I have found speak of hazards related to decreasing the lateral distance between flights . The general idea seems to be that the minimal safety gain accompanying lower groundspeeds due to strong headwinds ( lower GS means lower closure rate to objects / stationary traffic on ground ) can be partially sacrificed and offset by TBS to maintain airport capacity or reduce the impact of the strong headwinds on airport capacity . This sacrifice becomes available since stronger headwinds also aid the dissipation of wake vortex . The below table is based on own calculations , assuming constant approach speeds . It should show you how the time to cover a set distance increases with decreasing ground speeds , which means that e.g. it takes longer to cover 3nm to reach the runway threshold . Reducing the lateral separation ( the values chosen are deliberately a bit extreme , as none of the papers mentioned a formula to calculate TBS distances ) reduces time to cover the distance , but covering 2.5 nm at 130 GS is becoming quite close to 3nm at 150 GS .
This is a tricky question , because it depends greatly on the laws of the locations you 're flying to / from . Here 's a few of the things you have to take into consideration . Transporting is generally ok <URL> Notwithstanding any other provision of any law or any rule or regulation of a State or any political subdivision thereof , any person who is not otherwise prohibited by this chapter from transporting , shipping , or receiving a firearm shall be entitled to transport a firearm for any lawful purpose from any place where he may lawfully possess and carry such firearm to any other place where he may lawfully possess and carry such firearm if , during such transportation the firearm is unloaded , and neither the firearm nor any ammunition being transported is readily accessible or is directly accessible from the passenger compartment of such transporting vehicle : Provided , That in the case of a vehicle without a compartment separate from the driver 's compartment the firearm or ammunition shall be contained in a locked container other than the glove compartment or console . 926A says nothing about the method of transport . Most often it applies to motor vehicles , but it can just as easily apply to aircraft . Therefore as long as you 're ok to carry at the departure airport and the destination airport , federal law protects you in between . Also , remember that 926A only protects you if the firearm is unloaded and locked / inaccessible . Ok , but can I bring my gun unloaded onto airport property , right ? Not in a sterile area You ca n't take a firearm into the sterile area of an airport . <URL> as : Sterile area means a portion of an airport defined in the airport security program that provides passengers access to boarding aircraft and to which the access generally is controlled by TSA , or by an aircraft operator under part 1544 of this chapter or a foreign air carrier under part 1546 of this chapter , through the screening of persons and property . So , if the terminal and the GA ramp are two separate entities , you 're probably ok . However , I 've flown to some smaller airports where the GA ramp and the TSA terminal are right next to each other . In these cases , you need to be careful that you do n't get into the sterile area with your firearm . Maybe not anywhere on the airport Local law might prohibit the possession of a firearm anywhere on airport property , or the airport itself might ban firearms on their premises . The only way to know is to check the specific airport you intend to fly out of . What if I want to carry loaded ? The first thing to remember if you carry loaded is that 18 USC 926A does not protect you . In that case , you 're exercising the privileges of either open or concealed carry according to the laws of the departure and destination states . Open carry Some states prohibit open carry . <URL> . Others allow open carry when loaded . Some require a permit . Some do n't . Some only require a permit for handguns but not long guns . If you 're going to open carry ( perhaps a hunting rifle on a sling ) , make sure that the local area allows this . Concealed carry Some locations prohibit concealed carry outright ( to the best of my knowledge , you still ca n't carry concealed in Chicago , for example ) . Other states allow concealed carry with a permit from either that state or <URL> . So , for example , a Mississippi permit would be honored in Texas , but not in Nebraska . Others allow concealed carry without a permit at all ( that is , the <URL> is your permit ) . First , be sure that your concealed permit has reciprocity with the destination state . Even if you think you 're open carrying , watch out . In some states , the act of being in a vehicle , no matter how visibly your firearm is displayed , makes it concealed carry . If you do n't have a concealed carry permit , you may be in violation . Is there anything else waiting out there to bite me ? <URL> For example , Rhode Island . A Rhode Island carry permit is generally required to transport a handgun in a vehicle . This requirement does not apply , however , to the holder of an out-of-state carry permit who intends to travel uninterrupted through the state . Is a fuel stop an " interruption " ? Or New Jersey . [ New Jersey ] State law generally prohibits any person from knowingly possessing or transporting any rifle or shotgun without first having obtained a New Jersey firearms purchaser identification card ( FPIC ) , or from possessing or transporting any handgun without first having obtained a New Jersey handgun carry permit . Or Chicago . Chicago , for example , bans handguns declared " unsafe " by the Superintendent of the Department of Police , so-called " assault weapons , " machine guns and other firearms regulated under the National Firearms Act , " laser sight accessories , " firearm silencers or " mufflers , " " high-capacity " ( i.e. , more than 12-round ) magazines , and " metal piercing bullets " ( which
Real Aircraft displays do not use ' off-the-shelf ' display adaptors . They will have some graphics processor ( often developed by one of the major companies ATI/Nvidia ) but this will often be an older/mature chipset . Each display also might have multiple graphic processors . The cost of an aircraft display is more closely related to the cost of developing/certifying the hardware/software than the physical cost of the components . You ca n't realistically compare an Aircraft display to your desktop PC . Aircraft displays are n't just dumb monitors , each is a computing device in their own right that processes the data from the aircraft 's systems . Each display will continue to work if another fails . Modern standards such as ARINC661 moves some of the processing/behaviour to other computing units , but the display unit itself is still responsible for drawing the graphics .
In shipping there are standard international rules about which way boats should dodge each other . Are there similar rules in aviation ? Why yes , there are - in fact they 're basically similar to the maritime rules ! They 're described in <URL> ( or for US pilots , <URL> ) . Basically , for aircraft of the same type ( e.g. two airplanes ) in the air the rules are : Approaching head-on : Both aircraft alter their heading to the right . Converging : Give way to the aircraft on your right . Overtaking : Pass " well clear " to the right of the aircraft being overtaken . ( The aircraft being overtaken has the right of way . The overtaking plane maneuvers to remain clear . ) The rules for converging aircraft are more complex when the aircraft are not the same type - basically the more maneuverable aircraft gives way to the less maneuverable aircraft ( because something like a balloon ca n't really maneuver to avoid a collision ) - you can read the details in either of the links above . Also while it 's not explicitly spelled out in ICAO Annex 2 ( or at least I did n't see it ) aircraft in distress generally trump the " right of way " rules . ( This is really common sense : if an aircraft is recognizably in distress you do everything in your power to stay out of their way and help ensure a safe outcome to whatever their situation is . )
Based on the ATA iSpec 2200 , ATA Standard Numbering System , which provides a standard for structuring maintenance data by the manufacturers . The structure helps the airlines by providing a common structure regardless of manufacturer . While voluntary , most aircraft manufacturers use it . The spec is organized into chapters by aircraft system . ATA Chapter 32 is LANDING GEAR . Chapter subsections cover subsystems . Subsection -10 is Main Gear and Doors and subsection -20 is Nose Gear and Doors . So that 's the ' common ' terminology in the aircraft manufacturing and maintenance world .
For subsonic aircraft , the nacelle lips need to be blunt and well rounded to accommodate the different flow regimes encountered during flight . At take-off ( right side of the image below ) , the engine will suck in surrounding air , so the stagnation line of the intake flow is well outside of the center of the lip , whereas in cruise ( left side of the image below ) only the center stream tube of oncoming air is ingested , and much of the air flowing towards the nacelle is spilled over the sides . Accordingly , the stagnation line is well inside of the lip 's center . A sharper lip contour would lead to flow separation due to the small radius ( and hence the rapid change in direction ) the flow would have to endure . <URL> Image from Aerodynamic Design of Transport Aircraft by Ed Obert , 2009 Added to this is the influence of angle of attack , which will shift the stagnation line up or down on the lip . Sideslip will shift it left and right . Nacelles are mounted far ahead of the wing not only for flutter suppression , but also to reduce the wing 's influence on the intake flow . I doubt that the added variations of sideslip would be stronger than those of angle of attack , so I agree with @fooot that more bluntness on the side is unusual . Earlier designs used less blunt lips and had problems with flow separation in the intake at low speed , which led to the addition of <URL> . Today , the intake is optimized with <URL> and this means that the radius may be continuously changing over the circumference , due to the influence of wing and fuselage on the flow around the nacelle . Here I have to disagree with @fooot , because accessories are mounted close to the engine , and intake lips are quite a bit ahead of the engine face in order to equalize the flow . The flow speed at the engine face is around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 , so the intake has to accelerate or decelerate the flow quite a bit , without separation or much cross flow . A lot of that happens already outside of the intake , but still needs some intake length , and most accessories are so far away from the intake lip that they do not influence it 's thickness .
Dogfight is about energy management . You care less about climbing than about being able to turn your nose and weapons into the right direction as quickly as possible without falling out of the sky . Maximum climb would be required in those scenarios : Fly as efficiently as possible . Flying higher means flying faster and in colder air , so the engines are <URL> . Note that todays airliners climb as fast or faster than fighter aircraft in WW II . Evade ground threats . After delivering its ordnance , an attack aircraft would desire to get away from hostile fire as quickly as possible . Sometimes this is achieved by flying with the <URL> , though . Break off combat : If you know you can climb faster than your opponent , you can choose whether you fight or get away , a luxury the other guy does not have . Intercept : If you were ordered to intercept an unknown aircraft flying high above , maximum climb speed is helpful . If you need to be fast as well , your optimum climb profile is that of <URL> , though . I interpret minimum rate of climb as maximum descent rate . Typical scenarios are : Pressure loss in an airliner , when higher density air should be reached in order to <URL> . Dropping parachutists : If the aircraft lands ahead of the skydivers , it can fly more often and earn more revenue . Extreme case : Dive bombing . Actually , most dive bombers employed air brakes to limit the speed in a dive .
Yes . <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must : ( a ) Be at least 18 years old . ( b ) Be able to read , speak , write , and understand English . If you can not read , speak , write , and understand English because of medical reasons , the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft . ( c ) Hold at least a sport pilot certificate with category and class ratings or privileges , as applicable , that are appropriate to the flight instructor privileges sought . A CFI never needs a medical certificate . It is not required for the operation of that certificate . A medical certificate may be required if the CFI has additional roles . For example , the CFI also is acting as the legal pilot in command . A sport pilot acting as the legal pilot in command does not need a medical . <URL> ( b ) Operations not requiring a medical certificate . A person is not required to hold a medical certificate -- ( 1 ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking -- ( i ) A sport pilot certificate with glider or balloon privileges ; or ( ii ) A pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating ; ( 2 ) When exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate with privileges in a glider or balloon ; ( 3 ) When exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating in a glider or a balloon , as appropriate ; ( 4 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with -- ( i ) A sport pilot rating in a glider or balloon ; or ( ii ) A glider category rating ; ( 5 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate if the person is not acting as pilot in command or serving as a required pilot flight crewmember ; ( 6 ) When exercising the privileges of a ground instructor certificate ; To answer your questions . A sport pilot or CFI will never need a medical because the operation does not require a medical but a valid driver 's license . A glider pilot or CFI never needs a medical or drivers license , if I am reading the regulation correctly . A sport CFI does not require a CPL as does a regular CFI . The CPL requirement is found under part 61 subpart H Subpart H -- Flight Instructors Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating § 61.183 Eligibility requirements . To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : ( c ) Hold either a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with : But subpart H specifies Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating . The rules for sport CFI are found in subpart K where no such requirement is found . ( see 61.403 above ) It does not relieve the pilot or CFI from adhering to <URL> though .
You need 2 things before you can start flight training in the U.S. : An appropriate visa . A tourist visa ( B2 ) , business visa ( B1 ) or VWP ( Visa Waiver Program ) is not accepted TSA clearance through the <URL> The <URL> is documented at the AOPA website . In a nutshell , this is what you need to do : Make sure you have a proper visa or permanent resident card ( green card ) . A visa that allows you to live in the U.S. is fine ( you do n't need a specific visa for flight training ) . Examples of appropriate visas : H1B , H4 , L1 , L2 but there are many others If you do n't have one of the visas mentioned above , you need to apply for a student visa ( M-1 ) . You need to contact a flight school that will assist you with the visa application . Contact a flight school if you have n't already done so in the previous step . They will register your " case " and provide you with information you need when applying for TSA clearance . Apply for the AFSP program on the TSA website Wait for approval by the TSA ( is a multistep process that could take a while . It includes having your fingerprints scanned , among other things ) Start your training
As of now , there are no commercially available engine particle ingestion sensors , though a few are under development . One of the companies involved in development lays out the <URL> : As of today , no commercial off-the-shelf particulate sensor is in use because of the special design and difficult requirements for operation and performance in this harsh environment , according to Dr. Hai Lin of Hal Technology in Fontana , California . There are multiple sensors under development like the <URL> which is used to determine the particle ingestion by the <URL> , where dust and sand is a bigger problem , if anything . All of these sensors work on a similar principle - they measure the scattering of light by the particles using a optical sensor . The sensor detects light scattering from moving particles as optical pulsed signals whose amplitudes are proportional to size and whose number is proportional to concentration . This sensor technology can determine particle size , distribution , concentration and further be extended for composition . In future most of these systems are expected to available commercially , as While continuing to advance this technology for particulate composition determination , Hal Technology is pursuing a licensing agreement or partnership with sensor or engine manufacturers to have the sensor integrated into engine heath management systems of the future .
In flying you never trust your inner ear because it is easily deceived , you ca n't block out the inner ear inputs , you simply learn to ignore them in favor of your eyesight . When you first learn to fly it is in visual meteorological conditions using the horizon as a reference , then in instrument conditions ( if you choose to get an instrument rating ) using your instruments such as the <URL> and the <URL> .
There is some link between the type of control and the design maneuverability of the aircraft . Consider a yoke . Imagine twisting it to bank . You are moving it with a twisting motion of one or both arms and in general , aircraft fitted with such yokes are capable of low to moderate roll rates . Big displacements are uncommon but small , rapid , alternating changes are common . Watch a wide body PF making control movements during a landing with any kind of xwind or turbulence . They are less sensitive and give more visual feedback as to the control positions . Now consider a stick , central to the pilot flying . This is moved with a movement of the arm , generally only one , and can be rapidly displaced easily . This is normally associated with aircraft with high rates of roll , especially in an aircraft designed to rapidly null out or reverse the roll . It is also physically easier to move a stick than a yoke under high-G as the arm movement gives a longer lever . A great example of this was the Vulcan which , despite it 's size , enormous wing area and large fin , was so rollable that it could out-maneuver the interceptors of it 's day . It has a control column rather than a yoke and the PF would throw it around at altitude as if it were a fighter . This would not be easy to do with a yoke . I 'm a bit long in the tooth and have n't flown fixed wing for many years . I am not familiar with the rationale behind side sticks which are fitted to both low and high performance aircraft . I am guessing they are fitted more for reasons of ergonomics than for performance .
Listen . Climbing aircraft need more thrust , so the noise they produce is related to their vertical speed . Since most excess performance is available at low speed , a slowly flying aircraft producing a lot of noise will most likely be climbing . Once you gain a little experience , the pitch of the engine and propeller sound of piston-engined aircraft will be a very good indicator of their thrust setting . This does n't work for gliders . Here you need to wait to be sure if they are climbing or descending . Only when you see that the glider flies with speed brakes extended you can be sure instantly that it is descending .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
When asked for altitude , you report the altimeter reading , utilizing the correct barometric pressure entered into the Kollsman window . ATC separates traffic based upon indicated altitude . The indicated altitude may include errors , such as the pressure ATC provides , but all aircraft in the area will presumably be using the same barometric pressure , and will have similar errors . GPS altitude , which some call an absolute altitude , is an altitude relative to a model , normally the WGS84 elipsoid , and has it 's own set of errors . By convention , indicated altitude , based upon local pressure , is used for aircraft separation .
end question
start question
Can Ballistic Parachute Recovery Systems be safely deployed in a storm ?
Manufacturers are going to have different opinions of this scenario , but this answer follows the opinion of Cirrus Aircraft in their flight manuals and CCIP syllabi for the SR2X airplanes . First off , your best bet is to obtain a proper weather briefing prior to departure and obtain in-flight weather updates enroute so you can stay out of a thunderstorm in the first place . The CAPS has very specific guidelines for operations as well as a maximum demonstrated safe deployment speed , depending of the model of aircraft . The flight manuals for the SR2X aircraft all state that : . Barring that and you actually enter a thunderstorm which is so severe that it either causes departure from controlled flight or structural failure , there is a clause in the CAPS literature stating that if an accident is imminent , even if the acitivation of the CAPS is outside the demonstrated safe deployment range , it should be utilized and activated nonetheless . The reason has to do with minimizing the amount of energy on impact and even a partially deployed or damaged CAPS is going to slow the aircraft considerably , increasing your chances of survival . Bottom line is that you did something stupid vis a vis a serious lack of judgment where a safe recovery is no longer possible . Whatever happens in the next few minutes is probably going to hurt really bad ; the only thing we can do is make every effort to minimize how badly we are hurt and minimize the chances that we are going to be killed . Even an unsafe CAPS deployment in this situation is better than riding down to impact without .
In the United States moored balloons ( or kites ) are governed under <URL> ( a much neglected and very short corner of the regulations that also covers amateur rocketry and " unmanned free balloons " -- looking at your profile it 's probably a section you 'd find very interesting ! ) . In this particular case you 're probably looking for <URL> . The FAA is mum on the specific engineering requirements of mooring systems - I expect they anticipate you will work with structural and mechanical engineers to design a tethering system that can safely hold the loads your moored object will place on it ( or just tie it to the biggest , most structurally secure thing you can find , with a nice heavy rope and a proper knot ) . There are a few things they ARE pretty specific about though . Some operating limitations ( altitude , size , location , visibility ) . The fact that you have to tell them about it in advance ( At least if it 's more than 150 feet AGL , per ) Lighting and marking requirements for the tether ( s ) ( , which basically says the mooring line must have pennants ( daytime ) and/or lights ( nighttime ) to ensure visibility ) What happens to Balloons if the tether breaks ( , which basically says if the balloon breaks free of its moorings you need a " rapid deflation device " that gets it down in a hurry so it 's not just wandering around up there ) . Interestingly they do n't seem to care so much if a kite escapes its moorings .
The slide has to be removed from the aircraft completely ( generally ) and sent back to it 's manufacturer to be inspected and repacked , but yes , it can be reused . <URL> As a far as " how many times " , I would assume until it breaks ;) . Though honestly , I doubt a slide would ever be deployed more than once , maybe twice in it 's life span .
What are the requirements for radio systems in aircraft ? Generally there are n't any , at least as far as " being required to have radios " . It is perfectly legal to fly around in most of the United States in a Piper Cub with no radios of any kind . Indeed , unless it 's been retrofitted with one a Piper Cub would have no electrical system at all - so you would only be able to fly under " daytime VFR conditions " in airspace not requiring communication with air traffic control ( absent special arrangements ) . If you elect to fly an aircraft equipped with radios ( as most of us do ) there are specific requirements those radios must meet , which are described in <URL> . This is not a comprehensive list , but : For Communication radios these are outlined in <URL> and TSO C-169a . Transponders must meet specific TSO performance criteria per <URL> Navigation Radios ( VOR/ILS/ADF ) must meet specific TSO performance criteria if used under instrument flight rules . The TSO number for these escape me at the moment but I 'm sure you can look them up . GPS systems must meet TSO C145c / TSO C146c requirements ( if used for IFR navigation ) . The Emergency Locator Transmitter ( ELT ) must meet specific TSO criteria . The requirements obviously vary based on the type of radio , and typically reference other industry standards ( for example <URL> for VHF communication radios sends you over to RTCA/DO -186 B for the actual performance criteria ) .
It looks like its related to this <URL> that was issued back in may . You can find the <URL> but the pertinent chunk for the private pilot is ... ( 1 ) Private Pilot -- Airplane ACS , Power-Off &amp; Power-On Stalls . With the exception of performing a thoroughly briefed full stall maneuver , a pilot should always perform the stall recovery procedure when a stall warning occurs
Can a wide body airliner land with a full fuel tank ? Yes ! But it is safer to land an aircraft below its published MLW . Wikipedia has the relevant specifications for the <URL> and the <URL> Using the B777-200 as an example . Maximum take off weight : 545,000 lb / 247,200 kg Maximum landing weight : 445,000 lb / 201,840 kg So this particular aircraft may have to drop roughly 46,000 Kg of weight if taking off at its maximum before it can land safely . That 's not to say it 's impossible to land without doing so , but it 's certainly not advisable . When an emergency presents itself , what is " advisable " is getting on the ground as quickly as possible , and if that means landing overweight then so be it . There have been plenty of times when an overweight landing has caused no damage . However , with that said , just because you are taking off with a full load of fuel it does not imply that you must be at MTOW . You could be taking off with a full load of fuel but no cargo/passengers , in which case it is entirely possible that you may be below MLW . And in which case the answer would be yes , it 's entirely possible to land with full fuel tanks .
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
The torque in a helicopter is generated by the engine driving the main rotor in one direction , which causes the fuselage to spin in the other direction . The tail rotor shaft is horizontally mounted and hence creates it own ' lift ' to provide anti-torque . The pitch of the tail rotor gives directional control . Common ways to design a helicopter without a tail rotor : Tandem rotors : Two main rotors mounted one in front of the other . The rotor discs spin in opposite directions . All power from the engines is used for lift . Example : CH-47 Transverse rotors : Two main rotors mounted side-by-side . Example : Kamov Ka-22 Co-axial rotors : Two rotor discs are mounted one on top of the other . The engine units power both rotors . This structure requires a very complex swashplate mechanism . Example : Kamov Ka-25 Intermeshing rotors : In this main rotor assembly , the two set rotor masts are installed at a slight angle to each other , in a transversely symmetric manner , so that the rotor blades intermesh without colliding with each other . Example : Kaman K-MAX Tip jet : This is an interesting solution to the no-tail-rotor problem . Instead of driving the rotors with a turboshaft engine , compressed air is sent through nozzles installed at the tips of rotor blades . The engines effectively push against the air rather than the helicopter fuselage . The rotor spins just like a Catherine wheel . Example : Hiller Hornet NOTAR : NOTAR - NO TAil Rotor uses a fan inside the boom to build a high volume of low-pressure air , which exits through two slots and creates a boundary layer flow of air along the tailboom utilizing the Coandă effect . The boundary layer changes the direction of airflow around the tailboom , creating thrust opposite the motion imparted to the fuselage by the torque effect of the main rotor . Example : MD-900 Refer to <URL> for more !
In the Falcon 50 and 900 , we have windshield wipers that we are allowed to use in flight ( up to 205 KIAS ) , but I have never used or seen them used in the eight years that I have been flying them because they simply are n't needed . They are usually stowed out of the wind stream so do n't really cause much drag . The Learjet 's on the other hand DO have hot air that blows on the windshield and we sometimes used it to blow water droplets off of the windshield when on the ground . However , the primary purpose of the hot air was to heat and defog the windshield . On a larger airplane , the additional piping , valves , etc. required to get the hot air all of the way up to the windshield actually weighs and costs more than just putting the windshield wipers up there along with electrically heated windshields to keep them from fogging up .
Triple-redundant systems have four independent members , so if one fails , a two-to-one vote of the remaining three is still possible . However , often the term " triple redundant " is used when the system has only three members . And if all three disagree , two of them must be faulty already , so this is a case of multiple failures . In case of Airbus , besides the three main FCS computers two backup systems are available to help isolate the faulty one . Inside , each has two channels which run software written by a different team , run on a processor different to the one in the other channel and which are supplied by two different suppliers . This helps to reduce systematic errors , when all together would fail because of a common malfunction . <URL> Airbus flight control system diagram ( picture <URL> ) . Only the first system of each is expanded ; the boxes for system 2 and 3 look the same on the inside . Input is from the side sticks , and output goes to the hydraulic valves at the control surfaces . The voting happens first in the comparator step ( between the two channels ) and again in the filters ( between the single systems ) .
Yes , this is possible , as demonstrated in this video from almost 2 years ago : <URL> Each helicopter probably does not weigh more than the woman being lifted . The two helicopters are tilted such that the forces are in equilibrium with no collisions . Both are coordinated as two pilots are flying these by Line-of-Sight .
As far as I can find , the FAA does n't define the term landing so it could be argued either way . The " typical " <URL> is : 1 : an act or process of one that lands ; especially : a going or bringing to a surface ( as land or shore ) after a voyage or flight That definition does n't say that it has to be " controlled " or that the airplane has to be usable again ! Even if you decide that it was n't a " successful landing " , you could always get your third landing later if you are still allowed to fly , and then carry the passengers . So this brings us to the second part of your question : Are you allowed to fly after an accident ? Since you had an accident ( as defined by <URL> ) you must immediately notify the NTSB of the accident . Once you do that , you have 10 days to file the required report . At this point , you still have a valid pilot license and can legally fly another airplane . Chances are however , that you will be receiving a certified letter from the local FSDO requiring a reexamination in order to keep your license because your competence has been called into question . If you do n't call them to make an appointment , they will start the process to suspend your certificate . During this time , you can also continue to fly because you still have a valid license . The FAA can also use their emergency authority to immediately suspend your license if they feel that it is warranted . This can be appealed to the NTSB board if you feel that it is n't justified , and they have up to five days to respond . At this point you are not allowed to fly pending the response from the board . This , and a lot more information can be found on <URL> .
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
To the best of my knowledge , all commercial aircraft being tested have their pilots take on parachutes and hi-vis clothing in addition to creating a possible means of egress on all important flights , such as the first flight and high-speed tests . Since getting the cabin doors open is practically difficult , the solution I think most producers use is to built a chute down the front cargo entrance which can open . Bombardier produced a <URL> for their new CSeries . Here 's the solution employed on the Concorde : <URL>
There have been tests of real aircraft in wind tunnels , with a pilot sitting in the cockpit . But in all cases the plane had been tied in place with strings . Trimming the lift and especially the thrust in all phases of the test is really impossible . The Messerschmitt 109 was tested in the French Chalais-Meudon tunnel in 1940 , the Bell P-39 was tested at Langley , where the top speed could be improved from 340 to 392 MPH , the <URL> was tested at Langley in 1943 like most small military planes of that period , and lately a stealth demonstrator made by MBB was tested in 1984 , in most cases with the pilot in place . These are the ones I know ; there were certainly more .
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
Sonic booms from low flying aircraft , while loud , do n't seem to cause hearing damage , as this F-14 pilot demonstrates during a Tiger Cruise air wing demonstration . Now military fighters will sometimes make a ' show of force ' in the form of a low altitude , high speed pass against threat forces which do n't have a substantial IADS capability in order to motivate them to disperse under threat of employing ordanance on them if they continue belligerence . UPDATE : I found this story about an F-16 2-ship over Iraq on a CAS patrol mission . The pilots get a radio call from desperate SOCOM operators pinned down by enemy troops at night . The pilots can not get a IR strobe to track for bombing , so the lead Viper uses a sonic boom delivered from a dive to frighten off the combatants .
It depends on the aircraft ( and conditions ) . In some aircraft like the MD-11 , the deployment of ground spoilers causes a nose up pitching moment - in such a case , the spoilers should be deployed after nose landing gear touches down . An example is the <URL> where the aircraft , a MD-11 exhibited a pitch up tendency during landing and the pilot had to initiate a go around . The <URL> : The MD-11 Flight Crew Operating Manual , Volume II , Landing Roll Procedure , contains the following note : Ground spoiler deployment causes nose up pitching moment . This effect is most noticeable at aft centers of gravity . It is important to check the nose up pitching tendency with forward pressure on the control column and smoothly lower the nose wheel to the runway . In some cases the deployment of thrust reversers could also have similar effect . In such cases , the thrust reversers and spoilers should be deployed after the nose wheel touches the ground , while in other cases , it is done after the main landing gear touches down and before the nose gear touches down . From <URL> : ... some airplanes tend to pitch noseup when reverse is selected on landing and this effect , particularly when combined with the noseup pitch effect from the spoilers , can cause the airplane to leave the ground again momentarily . On these types , the airplane must be firmly on the ground with the nosewheel down , before reverse is selected . Other types of airplanes have no change in pitch , and reverse idle may be selected after the main gear is down and before the nosewheel is down . There are other issues as well - deployment of thrust reversers before the nose wheel touches the ground means the pilot may not have sufficient authority for steering the aircraft in case one of them does n't deploy . To prevent this some aircraft restrict the use of full reverse thrust till the nose landing gear is on ground ( though idle reverse is permitted once the main gear touches down ) . Also , for aircraft having engines in rear , the deployment of clamshell type thrust reversers can have clearance and debris ingestion issues which can limit their deployment . Also , the effect of spoiler deployment on the aircraft aerodynamics has also to be considered . For example , <URL> : The MD-80 and MD-90 in-flight spoiler lockout mechanism prevents the undesirable flight control configuration of deployed spoilers in either the speed brake or ground spoiler mode when flaps are extended . There are also other aircraft ( like Tu-154 ) where the thrust reversers were deployed before touchdown . So , all in all , it is better to consult the particular aircraft manual to decide when the spoilers/thrust reversers are to be engaged .
According to <URL> : F. Color Vision Correcting Lens ( e.g. X-Chrom ) Such lenses are unacceptable to the FAA as a means for correcting a pilot 's color vision deficiencies . However , you have the option of taking other <URL> . It would be better to talk with your physician or the medical examiner about this .
You question is a question of rules of engagement . Shooting down a downed pilot in a dogfight is not only not OK , but also illegal . According to <URL> , No person parachuting from an aircraft in distress shall be made the object of attack during his descent . Of course , war is war and this kind of attacks <URL> by pilots of almost all air forces , though it should be noted that in most cases , this practice was specifically prohibited by their high commands .
end question
start question
What do airline pilots eat on a flight , and when ?
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
A lot of this has to do with whether or not you 're talking to ATC . If you 're talking to ATC and your Mode C disappears or goes insane they 'll ask you to report your altitude ( and if your Mode C altitude reporting is wildly off they 'll probably tell you something like " Stop altitude squawk - altitude differs by 500 feet " . This is your cue to take the plane to an avionics shop and have the system checked/serviced , and not to attempt to enter B or C airspace , or fly above 10,000 MSL , until its fixed . In most cases ATC will continue to work you in the system until you are clear of the Mode C veil ( possibly expediting your exit if having no altitude readout on your target is messing up their day ) because it 's better to be talking to you than not . If you 're not talking to ATC things get a bit more complex : If your Mode C altitude readout is missing ATC will generally report you as " traffic , altitude unknown " to other aircraft and apply lateral separation exclusively ( nobody is allowed within the minimum lateral separation distance of your target unless they have you in sight and can maintain visual separation ) . If/When other pilots spot you ATC will usually ask them for your type and altitude so they have some idea of who you are and what you 're doing . If your encoder or transponder is malfunctioning and reporting an incorrect altitude that 's substantially more dangerous : ATC has no way of verifying your altitude other than asking you ( or another pilot ) , so they 'll be maintaining separation based on an incorrect altitude . This is why even VFR aircraft equipped with Mode C need an encoder check . In this case ATC will find out about a malfunction when you 're called as traffic to someone and they respond with " Is that my traffic above/below me ? "
Most airliners are designed to accommodate reasonable sideloads on the landing gear during touchdown per the Part 23 requirements for transport aircraft . Sideslippimg at touchdown creates a risk of contact with the engine nacelles and FOD ingestion . Therefore most manufacturers and airline SOPs suggest touching down in a crab , then aligning with the runway centerline after touchdown .
On a low wing monoplane you 'll need a pump all the time . There will be a mechanical pump fitted to the engine for the purpose . On a high-wing monoplane the engine is often gravity feed . However , during critical phases of flight ( specifically take-off and landing ) you would n't want to have that fail so a second auxiliary electric pump is fitted that the pilot switches on beforehand and can switch off once that phase is over . The Pilot 's Operating Manual will give specific recommendations for use on any given type .
This answer will be quite anecdotal ( I have not seen a survey on the question ) . It will answer the question for " most people I 've worked with " , and for " my " aircraft ( B737NG ) . Also , the usual disclaimer : different airlines/aircraft manufacturers may have different SOPs/instructions/limitations . Consult your manuals . In general : most pilots will leave FD on , IF it still provides useful and reliable information , without being an obstruction/nuisance ( i.e. when configuring it to give correct guidance would be more trouble than it 's worth , given that you already have visual references ) . This philosophy is also usually what you 'll find in an airline SOP , but in more formal language . I 'll try to provide some examples ( non-exhaustive ) to illustrate this depending on how you were set up before being cleared for the visual approach : ILS to straight in landing Leave the FD on until landing ( on my aircraft , B737NG , it will disappear at 50 ft RA ) , both localizer and glideslope will give usable and reliable information to the FD . ( Caveat : in visual conditions , ATC might be less strict about avoiding signal interference . They might for instance let an aircraft on the ground taxi to cross your runway while you 're on approach , which could cause localizer/glideslope interference ) . ILS to sidestep Most would turn the FD 's off . Both localizer guidance and glideslope guidance will be to the " wrong " runway . The FD is likely to be more of a nuisance than a useful tool . Non-ILS approaches with no centerline offset The Localizer/LNAV path will give good lateral guidance to the FD . The vertical guidance will depend on the approach and your equipment . If the aircraft generates a good quality vertical path , which crosses the runway threshold at a reasonable height ( 50 ft ) , there is no real good reason to turn the FD 's off . If all you have is vertical speed ( V/S ) guidance , it might be more helpful to turn FD 's off . Non-ILS approaches with centerline offset ( for example most VOR approaches ) At some point during the approach , you 'll want to abandon the approach course , and line up with the runway . Where this point occurs depends on specific approach , and how you intend to fly it . Example : A VOR approach to runway 36 ( runway heading 000 ) might use a VOR 1 nm east of the runway with inbound course 005 . You might want to stay on the inbound course of the VOR until it crosses the extended runway centerline . In this case , most people would keep the FD on until reaching this point , and then turn it off , as it wo n't give you any useful guidance afterwards .
It all depends on the autopilot , but generally no . If for example , you tell the autopilot to climb at 300 fpm , it will keep adjusting pitch to do just that . As you climb higher ( without changing the power ) the autopilot will keep increasing pitch to maintain the set vertical speed . Eventually the airplane will get too slow because of the increased pitch and can even stall . Some autopilots have pitch limits or monitor the stall inputs and automatically disconnect before it gets to this point , but others do n't . It is very important to know your autopilot and to monitor it at all times to make sure that it is doing what you want .
Skimming <URL> : The most consistent way to show up on FlightAware is to have your flight worked by ATC ( a squawk code and an IFR flight plan ) , or to fly an airplane equipped with ADS-B Out . FlightAware <URL> unless they have ADS-B Out : some VFR aircraft with flight following are available on the position maps but it largely unreliable You can block your tail number <URL> . Both the FAA and FlightAware operate block lists .
The airspace around the world is divided into sectors within a <URL> ( FIR ) / Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) / <URL> ( ACC ) , which range from very small and tight airspace pieces to larger combinations or enroute sectors . Enroute sectors will usually be larger than <URL> ( TMA ) . During peak-hours , these sectors will be handled by one controller responsible for each sector . If capacity and traffic flow permit , these sectors can be combined and two sectors will be handled by the same controller . Below is a picture of the Paderborn Lower Sector , ranging from GND to FL135 . This is usually a stand-alone sector which only covers approaches to Paderborn ( EDLP ) and Dortmund Airports ( EDLW ) . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) If traffic permits , the adjacent sector Hamm Lower from GND to FL115 , handling arrivals and departures to Münster ( EDDG ) , will be handed over to the controller responsible for Paderborn Lower . This can also be done vice-versa , where the Hamm Lower controller becomes responsible for the Paderborn Lower sector . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) TMA controllers not only handle IFR aircraft approaching or departing from airfields within their sector , but also any enroute traffic crossing the sector , VFR traffic requesting to cross airspaces which require prior permission and other tasks . <URL> , controllers take breaks between working their sectors and sometimes often switch sectors during a shift . A controller working Paderborn Lower during the beginning of his shift can end up working Hamm Lower towards the end of his shift with adequate breaks in between their sessions . See this related question : <URL>
Apparently , the answer is never . After several days of searching , I was unable to find anything in the FARs that requires the pilot of a small aircraft that is NOT being flown " for-hire " , to have flotation devices on board , for a flight over water , regardless of the distance from shore . Section 91.205 requires flotation devices , but only for flights " for hire " over water . So this section does n't apply to this question . Then , there is section 91.509 ( 12 ) which requires flotation and other survival gear for flights 50 nm , or 30 min out from shore , but this entire section is under Subpart F - Large and Turbine-Powered Muti-engine Airplanes and Factional Ownership Program Aircraft . So this entire section does n't apply to this question either .
You should refer to the published IAPs for an airport to determine if it has non-standard takeoff minimums ( for AeroNav charts , this is the T in the black triangle ) . There 's a section on this in the <URL> ( 2-6 ) : The FAA establishes takeoff minimums for every airport that has published Standard Instrument Approaches . These minimums are used by commercially operated aircraft , namely Part 121 and 135 operators . <URL> : No person may takeoff an aircraft under IFR from an airport where weather conditions are at or above takeoff minimums but are below authorized IFR landing minimums unless there is an alternate airport within 1 hour 's flying time ( at normal cruising speed , in still air ) of the airport of departure . ... and <URL> : ( 1 ) Aircraft having two engines . Not more than one hour from the departure airport at normal cruising speed in still air with one engine inoperative . ( 2 ) Aircraft having three or more engines . Not more than two hours from the departure airport at normal cruising speed in still air with one engine inoperative . Part 91 14 CFR 91 does not require a takeoff alternate . I 'm going to quote the IFH again because it 's an authoritative FAA source and because I very much agree with it ( 2-6 ) : Aircraft operating under Part 91 are not required to comply with established takeoff minimums . Legally , a zero/zero departure may be made , but it is never advisable .
Unofficial Terminology In the United States , the unofficial term is likely based on various official FAA and DOT terms . I can not speak to use of the term outside the United States , but it may be similar , if used at all . This answer will address use in the context of US law and FAA regulations . If a definition of is to be faithful to official sources , that definition could be one such as the following from <URL> : US designation for an air carrier with annual operating revenue of more than one billion dollars , such as American , Northwest , and United Airlines . Also called major carrier . However , as <URL> , the term can be used to refer to the traditional " Legacy Carriers " -- as opposed to newer start up carriers , the " Regionals " , or low cost carriers . The terms are sometimes used interchangeably . Official Terminology The official terminology from which is likely derived has a regulatory basis in <URL> . This section describes the basis for grouping of Large Certificated Air Carriers , and defines the various groups . The following gives the criteria for assessing the level of operations ( note that the nature of operations is assessed separately ) : ( a ) All large certificated air carriers1 are placed into three basic air carrier groupings based upon their level of operations and the nature of these operations . In order to determine the level of operations , total operating revenues for a twelve-month period are used . The following operating revenue ranges are used to establish air carrier groupings : The DOT 's Bureau of Transportation Statistics provides the following similar , but simplified , definition of <URL> : Major Carrier Group : Air carrier groups with annual operating revenues exceeding $ 1,000,000,000 . Answer Thus , to answer your question as to what is required for a US " airline " to be designated as " Major " in an official capacity , the " airline " must : Be a Large Certificated Air Carrier ( see definition below ) , and Have a reported annual revenue of more than $ 1,000,000,000 . Definitions The following are definitions as given in <URL> : 1Large Certificated Air Carrier : An air carrier2 holding a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 , as amended , that : ( 1 ) Operates aircraft designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 60 seats or a maximum payload capacity of more than 18,000 pounds ; or ( 2 ) conducts operations where one or both terminals of a flight stage are outside the 50 states of the United States , the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands . 2Air Carrier : Any citizen of the United States who undertakes , whether directly or indirectly or by a lease or any other arrangement , to engage in air transportation3 . 3 Air transportation : The carriage by aircraft of persons , property , or mail .
The methods that Dan referred to in his answer are valid , and might be used by investigators -- the NTSB for example . However , generally speaking the NTSB will not spend a great deal of effort researching pilot time . Instead they will resort to one of two methods of determining pilot experience . Firstly , if a logbook is readily available -- either found at the scene or made available through the investigation -- it will be used to determine pilot experience . Secondly , if a logbook is not readily available , the NTSB can determine pilot experience based on the pilot 's reported flight time on his or her last application for a medical certificate . Since an application for a current FAA third class medical can be several years old , private pilot experience determined by this means may not accurately reflect an accident pilot 's actual level of experience . However , a professional pilot 's application for an FAA first or second class medical will only be six to twelve months old , and will much more accurately reflect that pilot 's actual level of experience . Similarly , FAA certificated pilots report their flight time on some IACRA applications for pilot certificates . This reported time will have been independently verified as accurate ( unlike times reported on medical certificates ) . However , in most cases , a pilot will have applied for a medical more recently than for a certificate . For actual examples of these two scenarios , see <URL> , in which both are detailed . For the first pilot involved : The [ first ] pilot 's flight history was reconstructed using logbook documentation . His most recent pilot logbook entry was dated July 31 , 2016 , at which time he had accumulated 135.5 hours total flight time , of which 48.6 hours were listed as pilot-in-command . All of his flight time had been completed in a Cessna model 172N single-engine airplane . He had accumulated 5.0 hours in actual instrument meteorological conditions , 12.9 hours in simulated instrument meteorological conditions , and 3.4 hours at night . He had flown 24.7 hours during the prior 12 months , 4.4 hours in the previous 6 months , 2.4 hours during prior 90 days , and 1 hour in the 30 day period before the accident flight . The pilot 's logbook did not contain any recorded flight time for the 24 hour period before the accident flight . For the second pilot involved : According to FAA records , the [ second pilot ] , age 60 , held a private pilot certificate with a single engine land airplane rating . His last aviation medical examination was completed on November 6 , 2014 , when he was issued a third-class medical certificate with a limitation for corrective lenses . A search of FAA records showed no previous accidents , incidents , or enforcement proceedings . A pilot logbook was not recovered during the on-scene investigation ; however , on the application for his current medical certificate , he reported having accumulated 120 hours of flight experience .
<URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , each required flight crewmember on flight deck duty must remain at the assigned duty station with seat belt fastened while the aircraft is taking off or landing , and while it is en route . ( b ) A required flight crewmember may leave the assigned duty station - ( 1 ) If the crewmember 's absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation of the aircraft ; ( 2 ) If the crewmember 's absence is in connection with physiological needs ; or ( 3 ) If the crewmember is taking a rest period , and relief is provided - ( i ) In the case of the assigned pilot in command during the en route cruise portion of the flight , by a pilot who holds an airline transport pilot certificate not subject to the limitations in § 61.167 of this chapter and an appropriate type rating , is currently qualified as pilot in command or second in command , and is qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight . A second in command qualified to act as a pilot in command en route need not have completed the following pilot in command requirements : The 6-month recurrent flight training required by § 121.433 ( c ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) ; the operating experience required by § 121.434 ; the takeoffs and landings required by § 121.439 ; the line check required by § 121.440 ; and the 6-month proficiency check or simulator training required by § 121.441 ( a ) ( 1 ) ; and ( ii ) In the case of the assigned second in command , by a pilot qualified to act as second in command of that aircraft during en route operations . However , the relief pilot need not meet the recent experience requirements of § 121.439 ( b ) . tl ; dr : You need at least one pilot at the controls at all times , unless completely necessary to operate the aircraft , or take care of physiological needs .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
When instructed to report something . ATC : Cimber 626 turn left heading 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , report established Pilot : Heading left 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , WILCO , Cimber 626 ATC : OYABC airborne time 33 , report passing Dalhem Pilot ; ( Roger ) , WILCO , OYABC ATC : Lufthansa 135 , traffic is a Boeing 737 on 5 miles final for runway 09 , report in sight Pilot : WILCO , Lufthansa 135
The short answer is that at negative 2 G , the airframe limit for the A7-E , it took little effort to keep your feet on the rudder pedals . In controlled flight there are aircraft limitations on both positive and negative G. I flew the A7-E for the US Navy and have some operational experience that might offer some context to the question . I believe the positive G was limited to somewhere between 7-9 G. Ca n't quite remember the exact number , and it did depend on the external store configuration as well . Newer aircraft have higher G loading capabilities , although the human body has its own limit . Fitness and training can extend the pilots envelope to high G . As mentioned negative G in the A7-E was limited to -2 . There was no issue at these sorts of values keeping your feet on the rudder pedals . It is worth mentioning that the rudder is controlled by the AFCS ( Automatic Flight Control System ) system and so there is no real need to keep your feet on the pedals , although I did use them at times . Negative 2 G 's was hard on the body , and a pilot would come back to the ship with bloodshot eyes after undergoing maneuvers that required this sort of thing . I can think of 3 times that a pilot would find themselves in a negative G environment . I am not including standard acrobatic maneuvers , but more tactical situations . One , and this was n't typical , was during training . At a high altitude you unloaded the aircraft to -2 G 's and set a 45 degree dive . As the airspeed increased it entered an area on the IAS instrument that was no longer valid , and this was close to Mach . The goal was to observe the characteristics of the aircraft when it went supersonic . There was a gentle pitch down as you broke the sound barrier . I did this maneuver once , although I commonly practiced 45 degree dive bombing deliveries . The second , and quite common , situation was a maneuver called a bug out . A bug out was used by a flight to engage other aircraft in air-to-air combat . It was at once a defensive and offensive maneuver . The lead called " Bug out . Bug out , " and the flight went to -2 G 's , unloading the aircraft , and giving up altitude for airspeed . As your adversary turned towards your 6-o'clock the flight would " Pitch back , " and pulling positive G 's , gaining altitude . Trading airspeed for altitude got the aircraft into slower flight where its turn rate could be maximized . The bug out placed the aircraft immediately in free fall with military thrust applied . Rolling inverted and applying positive G 's is like being in a turn in the sense that the positive G bleeds energy . The third situation was a defensive maneuver . At low airspeed and with someone directly on your 6 o'clock the pilot might try to " jink . " Jinking was a last ditch maneuver where the pilot randomly pulled maximum G , and then went full negative G. I used this against an F-14 in a fight , and afterwards the pilot came and told me he could n't get a firing solution . As for uncontrolled flight there is the flat spin which can exert substantial negative G on the pilot . If I remember correctly a flat spin had never been positively observed in an A7-E . It was postulated , however , that given asymmetric wing loading it might be possible . On the other hand the F-14 could enter a flat spin . Talking with pilots who had knowledge about this sort of flight I was told that the negative G could be large enough where it would not be possible to get your hands on the ejection handle , either low or high . Not sure about the feet :) An interesting side note . At times a pilot will find themselves in a high g turn , grunting against the inflated g-suit , and fighting the encroaching tunnel vision . When I found myself here I would pull on the stick a bit more and watch my peripheral vision go dark ( tunnel vision ) . A bit more g and the tunnel got even narrower , until it was like I was looking through a hole . Then I would ease the stick and watch the hole get bigger . Pull back and smaller . Kind of interesting .
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
As has been stated , ATC will assign you an altitude , taking into account your requested altitude , traffic conditions , and of course the FAR . <URL> will apply from a design standpoint . The aircraft designer will use something like that to calculate typical values , which will be included in the aircraft 's operating handbook . The table below is listed by pressure altitude and gross weight . At each combination there will be performance values such as : Average N1 ( for a turbine ) Max TAT for thrust rating IAS Knots Mach number ISA fuel flow LB/HR/ENG ISA TAS Knots The flight distance will determine the approximate gross weight , which corresponds to an altitude and cruise speed that provide the best efficiency . Here is an example from a virtual 737 handbook , with the values I listed . The optimum performance is in blue . Higher gross weights have been removed for clarity . Airlines may have their own performance tables , choosing a custom balance of efficiency and speed . Dispatchers for the airline will take the flight information and decide on a cruising altitude for filing the flight plan , which the pilot will then receive . As you can see , as the aircraft burns fuel and gets lighter , it will be more efficient at higher altitudes . This is the step climb that Peter mentioned , where the aircraft will climb to higher altitudes as the flight progresses when they are cleared by ATC . Modern planning systems can take into account weather factors such as winds aloft and turbulence to pick the most efficient route .
A flight requires pilot &amp; copilot when the aircraft being flown requires it . A multi-crew aeroplane is one that requires a flight crew of at least two pilots . One of them is the pilot-in-command ( the captain ) and the other is the co-pilot ( or first officer ) . All jet air transport aeroplanes and the vast majority of turbine powered air transport aircraft and business jet are multi-crew aeroplanes . The definition in <URL> states that it is : " an aircraft required to be operated with a co-pilot as specified in the flight manual or by the air operator certificate . " So the secondary answer is no , it can not be decided by a pilot or an operator , it is a statutory requirement .
V1 is the calculated decision point at which takeoff must continue . Unless the aircraft is suffering a catastrophic failure , the pilot should not abort takeoff after V1 . The danger when taking off during windshear is the sudden lost of airspeed may result in the airplane settling back on the ground after it has become airborne . The technique , therefore , is aimed at gaining ground clearance in the shortest amount of time possible . In general , this involves : Apply max thrust Delay rotation Once rotation is initiated , quickly pitch up to gain altitude Below is an extract from the Boeing 777 FCOM about taking off when windshear is suspected ( my emphasis ) : Takeoff with less than full rated thrust is not recommended ( ... ) Use the longest suitable runway ( ... ) Consider increasing Vr speed to the performance limited gross weight rotation speed . ( ... ) If windshear is encountered at or beyond the actual gross weight Vr , do not attempt to accelerate to the increased Vr , but rotate without hesitation . ( ... ) Minimize reductions from the initial climb pitch attitude until terrain and obstruction clearance is assured , unless stick shaker activates . ( ... ) Stick shaker must be respected at all times .
end question
start question
What is 20NM reference point in " CTC SOCAL WITHIN 20NM " ?
Short answer : The primary Class C airport Longer Answer : Your question refers to the magenta boxes on sectional and TAC charts that read , or equivalent : <URL> These boxes are used in connection with the nearest Class C airspace on the chart . Arriving pilots are requested to contact approach within 20 NM of the primary Class C airport . This is the answer to your question , the primary airport of that Class C airspace . Which airspace and airport exactly will depend on which magenta boxes you look at on the Los Angeles TAC . In the chart examples above and below , that airport would be Bob Hope ( KBUR ) . The deeper significance behind this instruction is the procedural Outer Area of the Class C airspace which is not depicted on the charts . Though not mandatory , this outer area of the Class C airspace is still considered part of the controlled airspace , and pilots are asked to contact approach before entering this area . See section 3-2-4 of the <URL> 3-2-4 c. 2 . ( b ) NOTE - 4 . Though not requiring regulatory action , Class C airspace areas have a procedural Outer Area . Normally this area is 20 NM from the primary Class C airspace airport . Its vertical limit extends from the lower limits of radio/radar coverage up to the ceiling of the approach control 's delegated airspace , excluding the Class C airspace itself , and other airspace as appropriate . ( This outer area is not charted . ) Note that the locations of the boxes on the chart ( see image below ) roughly correspond to the various approach sectors , with the frequencies contained in the boxes varying accordingly . Also note that the blue boxes similarly correspond to Class B airspace , though the 20 NM note is absent , since Class B does not have the unmarked Procedural Area . <URL>
The bypass ratio of a turbofan engine is the ratio of the mass flow rate of the air that bypasses the engine core ( i.e. it does n't undergo combustion ) , $ \ dot { m _ { f } } $ to the mass flow rate of the air that passes through the core $ \ dot { m _ { c } } $ and undergoes combustion . The bypass ratio is usually given as the mass flow of fan by the mass flow of core i.e. $ \ frac { \ dot { m { f } } } { \ dot { m _ { c } } } :1 $ . In some cases , it is given as the ratio of cold air to hot air , $ \ frac { \ dot { m { c } } } { \ dot { m _ { h } } } :1 $ . <URL> So , a bypass ratio of 9.6:1 means that 9.6 kg of air passes through the bypass fan for every 1 kg of air passing through the core .
You are correct , it applies when operating in the vicinity of an aerodrome : Division V -- Operations at or in the Vicinity of an Aerodrome 602.96 ( 1 ) This section applies to persons operating VFR or IFR aircraft at or in the vicinity of an uncontrolled or controlled aerodrome . ( 3 ) The pilot-in-command of an aircraft operating at or in the vicinity of an aerodrome shall ( a ) observe aerodrome traffic for the purpose of avoiding a collision ; Also this part : Part VI -- General Operating and Flight Rules 602.19 ( 1 ) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section , ( a ) the pilot-in-command of an aircraft that has the right of way shall , if there is any risk of collision , take such action as is necessary to avoid collision ; and ( b ) where the pilot-in-command of an aircraft is aware that another aircraft is in an emergency situation , the pilot-in-command shall give way to that other aircraft . The way I 'd interpret the above is vigilance in see-and-avoid is always there , unless of course you do n't have ACAS and TAWS and flying IFR in instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) .
Other people have complained about this too . Boeing should rename the type to the " Whineliner " . The noise is caused by a hydraulic pump which is situated directly below the cabin . It mostly runs on takeoff and landing , but it can also run automatically at other times . Dogs have been reported to need psychiatric treatment after being transported on a 787 .
CVG stands for Compressor Variable Geometry . ( e.g. , <URL> ) . This is a technique to change the pitch angle of the compressor vanes , much like a variable pitch propeller . Wikipedia does not have an article for the use in aircraft ( probably because it 's not used all that much ) , but does have an article on a <URL> which is closely related ( for non-car-enthusiasts : a turbocharger compresses inlet air with help of a turbine at the exhaust ) . Basically , this system lets you control the pressure ratio independent of the RPM . Advantages include More efficient settings based on air pressure ( altitude / temperature ) . You basically decouple the turbine stage from the compressor stage ( but instead of a gearbox , you use the vane angle ) . This way , you can optimize your compressor stage to different conditions while keeping the turbine RPM at the most efficient value . More efficient cruise performance without compromising TO/GA capabilities . Aircraft engines are heavily overdimensioned to account for take-off power and contingencies , which means a bigger engine than strictly necessary and thus less efficiency in cruise . This can now be partially mitigated by varying the compressor vanes pitch for optimal efficiency during cruise and optimal power during TO/GA Higher engine RPM possible during approach . Normally , to keep your engines spooled up for eventualities , you need to increase their power , and as such need to increase drag with flaps and spoilers to keep the speed down . Now , you can spool up the engine to a high RPM with low compression ratio , and increase power relatively fast without having to overcome engine inertia by increasing the compression ratio by increasing the vane angle .
Since the site computes atmospheric conditions , only the friction coefficient $ c_f $ needs a reference length . This is the length of the object causing friction , measured along the direction of airflow . In case of a wing , it is its local chord , in case of a fuselage , it 's the fuselage 's length . Each part of an airplane and each section of the wing will have a slightly different $ c_f $ , depending on local chord length . The highest contribution to friction drag is caused at the leading edge , when the boundary layer is thin and the speed gradient at the surface is steep . The farther downstream you look , the less each additional unit of length will add to friction drag , so the average over the full length ( that is what $ c_f $ stands for ) will become smaller for longer bodies . To compute total drag , you need to add the contribution of each part , multiplied with its surface area relative to the airplane 's total area . Yes , for a wing the upper and the lower wetted surface area will each contribute their own drag component . Since airflow is faster on the upper surface of a lift-creating wing , you would need a correction factor to account for the speed difference between upper and lower side , but if the difference is small , you can just assume the same speed everywhere . To be precise : $ c_f $ is the friction coefficient of a flat plate parallel to the airstream .
" Restricted Airspace " is exactly that ; it comes with various restrictions that vary between areas . According to the AIM , " Restricted areas denote the existence of unusual , often invisible , hazards to aircraft such as artillery firing , aerial gunnery , or guided missiles . Penetration of restricted areas without authorization from the using or controlling agency may be extremely hazardous to the aircraft and its occupants . " My old CFI 's example was flying through an active artillery range . The guns are required to stop while aircraft are near . They will find you and have some very strongly-worded advice for you when you land . Like MOAs , these areas can be " hot " at certain times . The difference here would mean that you should n't fly into restricted airspace while it is " hot " while there is no such restriction with MOAs , though you are requested to route around them if possible . Some areas might require additional visibility and/or altitude requirements or restrict based on the type and class of aircraft . " Prohibited Airspace " is not allowed to be entered at any time without prior authorization of the controlling agency or explicit permission during an emergency .
Expanding on the other answer ... A loss of controlled flight ( departure ) is what happens when the aircraft is moving in an uncontrolled manner ( on any one or all axis ) . For example <URL> that the other answer linked , the departure from controlled flight happens when the aircraft exceeds its operating envelope and begins uncommanded movement in any axis , in this case when the pilot yanks back on the stick and the aircraft yaws uncommanded ( like a " boot full of rudder " as the person in the video comments ) . This is why an aircraft can depart controlled flight in individual axis while retaining control in others . You can intentionally make an aircraft depart controlled flight ( spin for example ) and if the control surfaces still have enough authority , it can be recovered ( altitude withstanding ) . You are n't really " in control " but you are coaxing the aircraft back into the flight envelope . If you do n't have enough control authority to get back into the flight envelope , or altitude , this is otherwise known as a crash ... Some aircraft can not be recovered from maneuvers like spins ( Cirrus SR-20 / 22 for example , not certified to at least ) . So , controlled flight is defined as providing control inputs without uncommanded movement on any axis ( significant , for example just using ailerons may result in yaw ) . Any departure from controlled flight is uncontrolled flight , even if you regain control later .
It 's a <URL> , or HUD . The HUD can display a number of different pieces of information , including performance data such as airspeed , altitude , and attitude , navigation data such as waypoints or ILS glideslope , or weapons data such as the selected weapon or the targeting reticle you mentioned . Thus , its uses are varied - depending on how sophisticated the system , basic aircraft control may be accomplished using only the HUD . In some modern fighters , there may be additional data on a Helmet Display ( or in the case of the F-35 , the helmet may have the only display ) . It is not just used on fighters - some airliners , cargo planes , and trainers have HUDs : ( <URL> ) ( T-38 ) ( <URL> ) As for your last question , per fooot 's comment , <URL> has more information . The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 .
When a US registered pilot is operating in international airspace , he is bound by both the US aviation regulations ( 14 CFR ) and ICAO Annex 2 , as required by 14 CFR 91.703 . It also requires compliance with MNPS and RVSM airspace rules where appropriate . Sec . 91.703 - Operations of civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States . ( a ) Each person operating a civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States shall -- ( 1 ) When over the high seas , comply with annex 2 ( Rules of the Air ) to the Convention on International Civil Aviation and with Secs . 91.117 ( c ) , 91.127 , 91.129 , and 91.131 ; ( 2 ) When within a foreign country , comply with the regulations relating to the flight and maneuver of aircraft there in force ; [ ( 3 ) Except for Sec . Sec . 91.117 ( a ) , 91.307 ( b ) , 91.309 , 91.323 , and 91.711 , comply with this part so far as it is not inconsistent with applicable regulations of the foreign country where the aircraft is operated or annex 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and ] ( 4 ) When operating within airspace designated as Minimum Navigation Performance Specifications ( MNPS ) airspace , comply with Sec . 91.705 . When operating within airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum ( RVSM ) airspace , comply with Sec . 91.706 . ( b ) Annex 2 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation , Ninth Edition -- July 1990 , with Amendments through Amendment 32 effective February 19 , 1996 , to which reference is made in this part , is incorporated into this part and made a part hereof as provided in 5 U.S.C. Sec . 552 and pursuant to 1 CFR part 51 . Annex 2 ( including a complete historic file of changes thereto ) is available for public inspection at the Rules Docket , AGC-200 , Federal Aviation Administration , 800 Independence Avenue SW. , Washington , DC 20591 ; or at the Office of the Federal Register , 800 North Capitol Street , NW. , Suite 700 , Washington , DC . In addition , Annex 2 may be purchased from the International Civil Aviation Organization ( Attention : Distribution Officer ) , P.O. Box 400 , Succursale , Place de L'Aviation Internationale , 1000 Sherbrooke Street West , Montreal , Quebec , Canada H3A 2R2 . <URL> explains it in plain language : International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) ICAO is an agency of the United Nations that originated from the signing of the Convention on International Civil Aviation in December 1944 ( referred to as the Chicago Convention ) . This organization was formed to promote the safe and orderly development of international civil aviation . The Chicago Convention produced International Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) aimed at standardizing international civil aviation operational practices and services . Currently , these SARP 's are contained in 18 annexes to the Chicago Convention . In particular , Annex 2 , Rules of the Air , and Annex 11 , Air Traffic Services , are pertinent to this paper as they relate to civil aircraft operations , the establishment of airspace , and air traffic control ( ATC ) services in international airspace . Although not addressed in this paper , it should be noted that the SARP 's are augmented by various ICAO documents containing Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) that amplify the basic principles in the SARP 's . Further , to supplement the worldwide procedures contained in the annexes and PANS , ICAO develops Regional Supplementary Procedures , which are part of the Air Navigation Plans agreed upon to meet the needs of specific geographical areas . Two articles of the Chicago Convention also have a bearing on the subject of this paper : Article 3 : Exempts state-owned aircraft ( which includes military aircraft ) from the provisions of Annex 11 and its Standards and Recommended Practices . ( Note : As an ICAO Contracting State , the U.S. has agreed that its state aircraft will be operated in international airspace with due regard for the safety of civil aircraft . ) Article 12 : Obligates each ICAO Contracting State to adopt measures to insure that persons operating an aircraft within its territory shall comply with that state 's air traffic rules ; or with Annex 2 , Rules of the Air , when operating over the high seas . The U.S. satisfied this responsibility through Title 14 , Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Part 91 which requires that operators of aircraft comply with U.S. operating rules when in the U.S. , and that U.S.-registered aircraft comply with Annex 2 when over the high seas ( see section 91.703 ) . However , section 91.703 applies only to civil aircraft , and state aircraft operating outside the U.S. are only subject to the " due regard " provisions of Article 3 of the Convention . Under ICAO agreements , the SARP 's in Annex 11 apply to airspace under the jurisdiction of a contracting state which has accepted the responsibility of providing air traffic services
Yes . One ' official ' example is from the FAA 's <URL> for land and seaplanes , which includes these tasks for seaplanes : Task H : Glassy Water Approach and Landing [ ... ] Task J : Rough Water Approach and Landing The FAA 's <URL> also uses it ; Chapter 6 is called " Seaplane Operations - Landings " . Interestingly , the word " landing " itself is n't defined in the FAA 's <URL> or in <URL> ( the US air regulations general definitions ) . Presumably it 's considered to be too ' obvious ' to require a definition .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
Speed of a plane is actually measured in a number of different ways , and relative to different things . Here is a summary of the different types : Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) . This is the number shown on the instrument that measures airspeed , and is n't really relative to anything . Rectified Airspeed ( RAS ) or Calibrated Air Speed ( CAS ) This is IAS corrected for known errors in the instrument and the measurement system . True Air Speed This is the speed relative to the air around the aircraft ; usually found by correcting the RAS for pressure and some other errors . Ground Speed This is the speed relative to the ground , or a fixed point on the earth ( ' imaginary grid ) . Its the vector addition of the True Airspeed ( and direction ) plus the wind speed ( and direction ) . In olden days this was estimated from the Airspeed and the wind velocity , or through dead reckoning navigation , but now it is trivially found from GPS or other navigation aids . Planes use different ones of these for different purposes . Measurements relative to the fixed stars are not generally useful until you are in the realm of space travel .
The A380 has a total waste tank capacity of or , <URL> . B. Capacity There are four waste tanks , two upper deck tanks and two main deck tanks , see FIGURE 5-4-10-991-003-A . ( 1 ) Upper Deck Waste-Tanks - 373 l ( 99 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 2 ) Main Deck Waste-Tanks - 675 l ( 178 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 3 ) Total Waste Tank Capacity - 2096 l ( 554 US gal ) . The size will vary for each aircraft type , the <URL> . Smaller General Aviation aircraft do not have lavatories , this depends on aircraft size and purpose . The average Cessna will not have lavatories either , pilots have to plan their stops properly or rely on accessory such as the TravelJohn . Larger General Aviation aircraft such as smaller jets and aircraft designed for more than 4 passengers are more likely to have lavatories on board . ( Image Source : <URL> ) There is no dumping system for waste tanks , mostly for hygienic and environmental reasons , as the waste tanks are not only filled with fecal and thus biological matter , but also with chemicals .
If the airflow is parallel to the axis of rotation of a propeller , the resulting thrust force will also be parallel to the axis of rotation and act on the center of the propeller disc . If , however , the airflow hits the propeller at an angle of less than 90 ° , the resulting force will tilt towards the flow direction and shift away from the center of the propeller disc in a direction orthogonal to the directional change . Example : You fly in a single-engined plane , the two-bladed prop is spinning clockwise when seen from the pilot 's view and you push the left pedal such that the aircraft flies in a sideslip . If both propeller blades are level , nothing much changes , but if the propeller turns another 90 ° , both blades will see very different flow conditions ( see the sketch below ) : For the upper blade , which moves from left to right , the sum of circumferential speed ( $ \ omega \ cdot r _ { Prop } $ , red ) and air speed ( $ v _ { \ infty } $ , blue ) is bigger than that of the lower blade ( black arrows ) and hits the blade at a larger effective angle of attack $ \ alpha _ { eff } $ . Thus , the lift force created by the upper blade is much bigger , and as a result it will act at a point on the upper half of the propeller disc . The same happens when the plane flies at a high angle of attack and high power ( ground run of a taildragger , or climb ) and the airflow hits the propeller disc slightly from below . Now the thrust force will move to the right and tilt slightly downward . This will cause the aircraft to turn to the left and must be compensated with right rudder . This effect is sometimes called p-factor , but this is not a factor in an equation , but something you need to factor in when flying at high angle of attack . Note that the rotational component of the prop wash will cause a similar effect when it hits the rudder at an angle , adding to the leftward tendency of the plane .
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
There were a lot of other mitigating factors in the Colgan Air 3407 crash . Was that one recoverable ? It depends . It never should have got to the point of a stall in the first place . It was more preventable than recoverable . But in answer to your question , again , it depends . Every aircraft in the air can stall and be recovered , if responded to properly . But the plane may very well bend and break if the stall develops too far . Then it may not be recoverable . And most large airliners ( or aircraft bigger than a few thousand pounds with multiple engines ) are n't designed for the stresses of spins , so they never teach to a full stall . In those types of aircraft a full stall is much more dangerous , and they can be much more difficult to recover from , especially if you break something . Besides , in aircraft like that , you should receive plenty of direct warning long before you reach the point of a stall . When I was teaching , stalls and spins were one of my favorite subjects for early pilots . Especially in light trainers like the Cessna 150/152s . Those aircraft were always incredibly good at stalls/spins and incredibly forgiving . You can put a Cessna into a hands-off full stall if you trim it right , and it will stop rotating in a spin if you simply let go of it ( and have enough altitude ) . I always taught my students spin recovery from a full spin , even at the Private Pilot level . And usually shortly after teaching them full stalls . I would stall it , make it rotate at least 3 or 4 times , and have them recover the spin . Then have them do it themselves . I never had to worry about my students not knowing how to recover from an unintentional stall/spin . By the time my students were learning to fly multis , I was teaching them more stall recognition and avoidance than recovery . Recovery is essentially the same in all aircraft . You just have to be sure to not reach that point . There 's only one thing you really need with any aircraft in a stall/spin , and that 's altitude . Unfortunately , takeoffs and landings are the most likely places for you to get behind the aircraft and let it unintentionally stall/spin . That 's why you learn how to recognize them very early in your pilot training . You ca n't spin without a stall first , and just about any airplane will give you fair warning before you stall it . The trick is recognizing the situation before it becomes serious .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
Motive flow is required in design of ejector pumps in fuel system . Ejector pumps ( also known as jet pumps or eductor pumps ) have no moving parts and therefore represent a highly reliable , low cost means to move fuel in an aircraft . All jet pumps contain the physical characteristics illustrated in below figure . <URL> In this pump , the motive flow comes from a high pressure source such as a primary boost pump , or the returned fuel from the engine . When the high pressure motive flow passes through the throat it creates a suction which sucks fuel from its neighborhood and the total fuel flow are sent to another location . The overall efficiency of an ejector pump is low when compared to electric motor powered pumps but they are frequently used due to their extremely long life , high reliability and low cost . The ejector pumps generally are used for two functions : Ejector pumps are often used to provide the primary fuel boost function in smaller transport aircraft applications such as business jets and regional aircraft . In order to minimize the unusable fuel , scavenge pumps are often employed to suck up fuel from the remote corners of fuel tanks and to discharge this fuel at the inlet to the main feed pump ( s ) . Ejector pumps are used for this purpose and the motive flow for these scavenge devices may be taken from the feed pump outlet if other motive sources are not available . Note : Most of above material are from : Langton , R. ( 2009 ) . Aircraft fuel systems . Chichester , U.K Wiley .
end question
start question
In a turbofan , why are there no stators behind the fan ?
<URL> Right behind the fan you can see the stators . <URL> Here they are from behind . <URL> Here is the fan removed , with the ( 1 ) fan stators ( outlet guide vanes ) , and ( 2 ) inlet guide vanes for the compressor ( booster ) . Just like I <URL> : On the funny side , here 's a <URL> , absolutely bonkers <URL> . Do n't trust illustrations . <URL> ( CFM56-5A manual ) You can watch the fan removal here : <URL> Below is the stator assembly for the GE90 : <URL> Image sources : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
It 's not there because it 's like driving with the handbrake on . [ The flight ] was climbing out of Kolkata , however achieved an unusually poor climb rate , was not able to accelerate to normal cruise speeds and leveled off at FL200 after a continuous climb for about 30 minutes ( <URL> ) . And because the flight crew should have run the ' after takeoff ' checklist , which includes checking that the landing gear is up and locked . <URL> ( <URL> ) A typical Airbus A320 checklist . Related : <URL>
Basically , you put wheels on the skid and tow them . In some cases , towing wheels are attached to the skids ( which usually have sleeves in them for mounting ) , and a tow bar is attached to the front ( one or two sets of wheels may be attached to the skids ) , which is then towed by a vehicle . <URL> Image from <URL> There are also specialised tow carts available for helicopters , which basically grip the skids ( usually in a couple of places on either side ) and lift them up , after which the helicopter can be moved by the operator by controlling the cart . <URL> Image from <URL>
Some years ago there were a couple of flight schools on Malta , I 'm not sure if they are still operating , DuckDuckGo could probably tell you The most common way of getting a JAR ( pre-EASA ) PPL ( for UK trainees ) outside the UK used to be to go to a JAR accredited school in the USA . Florida was very popular . I expect there are schools in the US that are allowed to train to the EASA syllabus these days . I think you need to travel on a training visa to do this and I 'm not sure what is involved in getting one I think I 'm right in saying your flight test can be taken by an EASA examiner anywhere , no need to come home to do it ( and anyway you 'd want to do it over familiar territory ) A big warning to anyone learning to fly is not to pay upfront . Pay lesson by lesson . Flying schools can go bust very quickly , many students have lost a lot of money this way Personally , I would be wary of training outside the UK , the weather conditions and procedures will be very different from what you are used to , and a low-hours pilot could easily get caught out . Marginal conditions can go bad on you very quickly . If you do do this , try to get some supplementary lessons in poorish weather and get some time fly through UK CAS to get used to ATC procedures
The simple answer that covers the majority of engines is that a fan has a shroud . The possible exception are unducted fans or <URL> , which are a hybrid between a turboprop and a fan engine . A more scientific answer is based on the difference in disc loading : How much power per disc area can be pumped into the fan for propulsion . For propellers , this is distinctively less than for fans . Some examples : Cessna 172 with O-320 engine ( 150 hp ) and McCauley 1C160 prop ( 1.9 m diameter ) : 39.45 kW/m ² . P-51D with Packard-Merlin 1650 ( 1590 hp ) and Hamilton-Standard prop ( 3.4 m diameter ) : 130.59 kW/m ² . Lockheed C-130H Hercules with Allison T-56 engine ( 4590 hp ) and Aeroproducts propeller ( 4.1 m diameter ) : 259.25 kW/m ² . With jets , this comparison needs power when thrust is listed . Therefore , we make the heroic assumption that the speed at the fan is Mach 0.4 in static conditions and thrust is split according to bypass ratio ( which is completely imprecise but will do for the purpose here ) : BAe 146 with <URL> ( 31 kN static thrust , 5.7:1 bypass ratio and 1.02 m fan diameter ) : 4254.35 kW/m ² . Boeing 747-200 with <URL> ( 213 kN static thrust , 5:1 bypass ratio and 2.34 m fan diameter ) : 5388.74 kW/m ² . Boeing 777 with <URL> ( 388.8 kN thrust at take-off , 8.4:1 bypass ratio and 3.124 m fan diameter ) : 6077.23 kW/m ² . I guess by now you see where this is heading : Turbofans are simply a different class when thrust per frontal area is concerned . And for this to be possible , three conditions must be met : A well-designed intake which produces uniform flow over the engine face . The shroud is only the consequence of providing the fan with an intake . A high <URL> of the fan/propeller ( the ratio of the total blade area of the propeller to the disk swept out when the prop turns ) High dynamic pressure at the engine face , so the engine power can be absorbed by the fan/propeller . Note that those conditions depend on each other : Without the solidity , much less power could be absorbed . Without the intake , the supersonic flow at the fan tips would produce <URL> . Now for the crazy ones . The misfits . The rebels . The troublemakers . The round pegs in the square holes : Antonov 70 with <URL> ( 14,000 hp and 4.5 m prop diameter ) : 656.4 kW/m ² . MD-81 with GE36 UDF ( <URL> ) : 803 kW/m ² . Here it is hard to make a clear call whether these are fans or propellers . Their proper name " propfans " hints at that already . A last word on terminology Efficiency is a measure how much effort is needed for a certain result . An efficient prop needs less power per unit of thrust produced . It has <URL> , turns slowly and has a big diameter . A subsonic fan would be more efficient , but would create much less thrust for a given size . If you want to express the capacity for thrust creation at a specific diameter , use disk loading , not efficiency .
It looks to me like the <URL> you quoted is unreliable or at least not current , e.g. it gives results for codes QQQ and ZZZ too , but they <URL> . The actual IATA code for <URL> seems to be MZX . Anyway , there 's no particular reason why <URL> , ZZZ or any other specific combination should be assigned ; they just <URL> . There 's also no reason why IATA should assign a code to every airport : the US alone <URL> but only 500 or so have air carrier service .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
Fitting a larger fan does two things to the thrust of an engine : The static thrust is increased . Static thrust is the thrust produced when the engine is not moving . The thrust gradient over speed becomes more negative , which means that thrust will decline more with speed when the bypass ratio is increased . But there is more : Exit speeds at the nozzle are reduced , and a bigger intake is required , since the bigger fan will need more air . Increasing the bypass ratio means taking some of the <URL> and turning this into a higher fan mass flow . If we look at the formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an airbreathing engine : $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the engine and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the gas flowing through the engine , the speed dependency becomes clear : When $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low , a smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . When $ v _ { \ infty } $ is high , however , this effect disappears , and now the smaller engine with a smaller and lighter intake becomes more attractive . When the core of the engine stays the same , its fuel consumption will also stay the same , but the bigger fan will create more thrust , especially at low speed . The core mass flow will be the same , regardless of fan size , and the amount of <URL> will also not change . Since efficiency is defined as thrust per unit of fuel consumed , the bigger fan will also increase efficiency .
For services like FlightRadar24 they typically get data in two ways : via volunteers hosting ADS-B receiver stations on the ground , and directly from the ATC radar system in places where that data is readily available . For the ADS-B equipped aircraft these services would need volunteers in the area of Ivato Airport ( FMMI ) to host ADS-B receivers . <URL> , and they even offer free " premium " services ( and occasionally free receivers ) to people who help provide data . If it 's legal in your area , and you are willing to run a receiver station you may want to look into it , and this will get you aircraft which are broadcasting ADS-B data ( Mode S+ES with GPS position information ) . For the aircraft which are not broadcasting ADS-B information ( because they lack an appropriate transponder or GPS system ) the problem is a little more complicated - the organization that runs ATC in Madagascar would need to set up radar sites ( which presumably exist ) , and make that information publicly available ( which may or may not be the case ) . A system would then need to be developed to allow the online radar services to process that data and make the flight tracks available ( subject to whatever delays may be imposed in that process ) . As I do n't know much ( anything really ) about the ATC system in Madagascar , so I 'm not sure how robust the radar infrastructure is or how open they might be with their data , so I ca n't really comment on that half of the system .
This varies based on if you are VFR or IFR certified . Basic currency requirements for general aviation flying under part 91 which I presume is the target of this question . The comments to the answer outline the commercial implications , can be found in <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , and -- ( i ) The person acted as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; and ( ii ) The required takeoffs and landings were performed in an aircraft of the same category , class , and type ( if a type rating is required ) , and , if the aircraft to be flown is an airplane with a tailwheel , the takeoffs and landings must have been made to a full stop in an airplane with a tailwheel . ... [ read on for IFR and night currency ] However the FAA actually views using the auto-pilot as manipulating the controls . You can find <URL> . But in short , The FAA considers a pilot 's use and management of the autopilot to be the equivalent of manipulating the controls , just as one manages other flight control systems , such as trim or a yaw dampener . The autopilot system 's sophistication does not affect a pilot 's responsibility to manipulate and manage all control systems , including an autopilot , appropriately . Therefore , a pilot may log PIC flight time as the sole manipulator of the controls for the time in which he or she engages an autopilot . With that in mind you can maintain your currency using only auto-pilot and in theory if your plane and the desired airport was equipped for <URL> ( which , as far as I know , no GA planes are ) you could maintain your currency without physically manipulating the yoke aside from takeoff and climb to autopilot altitude . So no there is no legal obligation to physically touch the controls to maintain currency if your plane is capable of some kind of completely programmable flight ( I do n't think any are currently ) . There is however one notable exception to this regulation . On an IFR checkride you must fly a manual approach , <URL> ... • The applicant must accomplish at least two nonprecision approaches in simulated or actual weather conditions . At least one must be flown without the use of autopilot and without the assistance of radar vectors . The yaw damper and flight director are not considered parts of the autopilot for purposes of this Task . It claims to do everything for you within 50 feet of the ground . This is a bit misleading . First off , most , if not all GA planes lack <URL> so power management is in the hands of the pilot and is fully manual in most cases . Some more modern airplanes like the <URL> which loops prop and throttle controls to one lever minimizing but not eliminating manual control . There are <URL> and function varies heavily : some only have a single axis ( heading hold and adjust capability ) . Some have 2 axes which can hold altitude and headings and some which have the ability to follow GPS courses , fly approaches down to different minimums etc. . It should be noted that some units can be set to create situations that can stall the aircraft or otherwise put it in a dangerous flight scenario , the auto in autopilot does not mean absolute protection or full automation . If so , can it be remotely piloted ? This is actually a completely separate question if you are asking " do I need to physically be inside the aircraft " i.e. " can I maintain currency with a drone if it 's properly equipped " . I do n't think the FAA has fully fledged regulations on this yet . If by remote you mean by use of autopilot , see above .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
The Super Hornet ca n't even shoot a VOR approach , much less an ILS . We are TACAN / PAR only . That 's fine at the boat , because that 's how we operate , but apparently the Navy still has n't figured out that there are stationary airfields that do n't float . Maybe someday we 'll upgrade and get the finest in 1980 's technology . In all seriousness I 'm assuming it has to do with operational requirements and money . The less the Navy spends on stuff like ILS equipment , the more they can spend on stuff that goes boom . Also , if the weather is questionable at home we probably ca n't safely do our training mission anyway , and out at sea , we have some other systems that help us land on the boat in bad weather . It would be really nice though to be able to use civilian fields as legal weather alternates . It gets a little tricky sometimes when planning cross countries .
Global Starting from the top , we find the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) , which is a United Nations agency . ICAO was formed in 1944 when the Chicago Convention was signed , and initially had 52 member states . Today , 191 states worldwide are members of ICAO . The headquarter is in Montreal , Canada , and there are 7 regional offices . ICAO standards and other provisions are developed in the following forms : Standards and Recommended Practises ( SARPs ) : Technical specifications adopted by the Council of ICAO in order to achieve the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations , standards , procedures and organization within air navigation . Member states will conform to standards and will endeavour to conform to recommended practises . States are invited to inform ICAO of non-compliance . Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) PANS comprise operating practises and material too detailed for SARPs . They are suitable for application on a worldwide basis . Member states are invited to publish differences between national procedures when considered important in the interest of safety . Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPPs ) SUPPs are supplementary procedures which are only valid within one of the ICAO regional office regions . For example , there are supplementary procedures published only valid within the European/North Atlantic region . Also worth mentioning are the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) and the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , both of which function on an ( almost ) global level . Regional Below ICAO we have regional organisations . As an example , in Europe , the European Union ( EU ) provides legislations for its member states . Non-regulatory organisations , such as the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) , assist the EU in developing regulations ( but the EU , not EASA , is the regulatory authority ) . Some areas do not have regional regulators like the EU . In such areas , national regulations are handled directly by national regulators . Within the EU , countries also have national regulators -- but they are bound to base their regulations on EU regulations . National Below the regional level we have national regulators , commonly referred to as civil aviation administrations ( CAA ) . Each country will have their own CAA . One that you will often hear about is the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , which is the national regulator in the USA . Generally speaking , a national regulator will be following framework regulations published by the national ministry of transport . The term ministry of transport is also sometimes applied to the departments or other government agencies administering transport in nations who do not employ ministers . The framework regulations from the ministry of transport are largely based on ICAO SARPs , PANS , SUPPs and any regional regulations ( such as EU regulations ) . The national regulator will publish detailed regulations , which are adapted by the air navigation service providers , as well as airlines , pilots , air traffic controllers , maintainence companies etc. etc. . The service providers , commonly referred to as ANSPs , are the organisations actually providing air navigation services , such as communication , navigation and surveillance equipment , meteorological services , air traffic management ( including ATC ) , aeronautical information and search and rescue . Most ANSPs operate within a single nation , but there are also multinational ANSPs , a few examples are ASCENA ( Africa and Madagascar ) , COCESNA ( Central America ) , EUROCONTROL ( Benelux ) and NUAC ( Sweden and Denmark ) . The service providers work together with the national regulators to develop detailed procedures , but do not ( usually ) have any regulatory authority .
The <URL> ( section 2-4-20 ) say that the ' group form ' should be used by controllers when talking to any aircraft with an FAA authorized call sign . So you would expect to hear it with airline traffic but not private flights : Air carrier and other civil aircraft having FAA authorized call signs . State the call sign followed by the flight number in group form . NOTE - " Group form " is the pronunciation of a series of numbers as the whole number , or pairs of numbers they represent rather than pronouncing each separate digit . The use of group form may , however , be negated by four-digit identifiers or the placement of zeros in the identifier . EXAMPLE − " American Fifty − Two . " " Delta One Hundred . " " Eastern Metro One Ten . " " General Motors Thirty Fifteen . " " United One Zero One . " " Delta Zero One Zero . " " TWA Ten Zero Four . "
According to <URL> , the GE90 has a mass flow rate of 1,350 kg/s at take-off and 576 kg/s at cruise ( at 10.668 km = FL350 ) . The CF6 has a mass flow rate of 591 kg/s at take-off . Exhaust velocity is n't generally quoted , perhaps because it only bears a loose relation to the performance characteristics of the engine . I suppose if you wanted you could find the area of the exhaust and use the density of air to find the velocity . Looking specifically at the GE90 , we see that it has take-off SFC ( specific fuel consumption ) of 7.9 mg/N-s . Using the formula $ I _ { sp } = 1 / ( g_o · \ text { SFC } ) $ given in <URL> we get a specific impulse of 12,285 s . If we use the cruise SFC of 15.6 mg/N-s , we get a specific impulse of 6,536 s. Is this an effect of the lower density of air , or simply of the lower fuel required in the cruise ? I do n't know .
The Boeing 737 fuselage ( among other components ) in Wichita for a variety of reasons Before Boeing sold the Wichita portion of the Boeing Commercial Airplanes business to the Onex Corporation in 2005 , Boeing was manufacturing structures for their aircraft in Wichita . The engineering , manufacturing , supply chain , and storage resources already existed in Wichita , so it would n't make sense to try to move all of that back in house at another location . The cost to transport large components from Wichita to Renton or Everett via train is likely more economical than to manufacture and store them at the final assembly plant On a similar vein , Boeing also uses the modified 747 <URL> to transport components between suppliers and Boeing . Wichita is one of the cities that the Dreamlifter flies into , landing at McConnell Air Force Base .
I like to answer your question with a short example . A few days ago I flew to Venice ( untowered ) and decided for a teardrop entry to set up for the 45 . My calls were 10 and 5 miles out , both ending with " any traffic please advise " guess what I saw overtaking me on my 4 o'clock position only a few hundred feet away at same altitude ( 500 feet above pattern ) . It is legal to make a straight in , but before you think about the time or fuel you waste please think about your own and even the guys who 's not on CTAF and obviously heads down safety . If you fly the 45 and the continue the pattern ( it 's not allways left , check your sectional and the A/FD ) everybody knows what the other one is doing and if necessary can act accordingly .
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
end question
start question
Can Microsoft Flight Simulator help me learn to fly ( or make me a better pilot ) ?
<URL> , and I 'll add a few bits to that . Even after having gotten my license , I still use Flight Sims ( mainly Microsoft FSX and X-Plane 10 ) for some practice . Before flying into an unfamiliar airport , or over an unfamiliar area , I 'll often load it up in a simulator , and fly it . Especially when I was a student , I found this incredibly helpful for my long cross country flights . You can look at a map all you want , but its still not the same as sitting in the simulator , and looking around ( " I see the mountain on my left ... and the lake below me . I can follow this valley all the way to the aiport ... " etc ) . And I 've generally found the simulator , with good terrain and textures loaded , can be pretty close to reality . The night before I did a student flight from <URL> , I flew the entire thing in FSX . The next day , it really felt pretty much like making the same flight all over again . Based on the landmarks , timing , views , etc , I knew exactly where I was , and I was confident that everything was going right . That said , in my opinion there are some things simulators do very poorly . Some of these are : Take offsThe application of power and left-turning tendency on the ground just does n't feel realistic at all . The climb out does n't feel right . LandingsGround effect is difficult to observe in a simulator . The flare does n't feel like reality , and touching down ( or bouncing ) is not realistic at all . Cross Control , Slip , Spin &amp; Unusual AttitudesAnything beyond basic maneuvers up to 30 degrees bank or 20 degrees climb does n't match reality . Because of these limitations , I would NOT use a flight simulator to try to learn Take Offs , Landings , or certain maneuvers . ( You can learn the " procedure " in a simulator ... when to reduce power , when to add flaps . But the " feel " will be all wrong ) . If you 're going to try to incorporate Flight Sim into your training , there are some basic things you should do : Spend LOTS of time configuring itUnlike a video-game , this is not " plug-n-play " . Spend time learning all the controls . Turn on RealismWhen adjusting your controls , set all " null-zones " to zero , set " Sensitivity " to maximum , turn off helpers like " auto-mixture " and " auto-rudder " , etc. . ( However , I do keep " Gyro-Drift " turned off in my sim . Its annoying , and adds little practical value ) Turn on WeatherThe flight simulators typically come pre-setup with zero wind , good weather , standard temperature , etc. . Configure yours to pull from real-world weather sources , or add some clouds , a variety of winds , and do n't always fly at noon . Set the timing for early morning flights , twilight flights , night flights , etc. . Another " fun " area where Flight Simulators can be slightly helpful is in Emergency Procedures.Typically in real-world training , my instructor told me : " We 're going to practice engine-out emergencies " and my mind immediately starts preparing for that ... And naturally , we have to do them at a safe altitude in a safe area.In a flight simulator , you can set up the computer to give you a random emergency at a random time . You might get the problem on short-final , or over a metro-downtown area . Something that you just ca n't do in reality.I have n't had any real-life emergencies , so I do n't know how accurate flight simulator is . But I believe that some practice is better than no practice at all , and flight sim lets me fly into storms , icing , get lost in fog , fly approaches below minimums , have an engine seize up on me , etc , all without risking my butt or a $ 200,000 airframe . Since @Lnafziger suggested more specifically addressing flight training : I do believe that Flight Sim can help with certain aspects of training , but in other areas , it is no help at all , or actually harmful . Training Areas simulators can help with : ProceduresReviewing steps and procedures before going in the air . For example , for a student , steep turns or stall recovery can be a little nerve wracking at first . It may be much easier ( and cheaper ) to do it in a sim with an instructor , discussing all the steps and reasons for actions . Then when the student gets in the air , they wo n't have the " feel " for it , but at least the general process is already familiar . NavigationTuning and identifying VORs , and interpreting the needles can be done just as well be done on the ground as in the air . If the sim has good , realistic terrain ( I prefer <URL> ) , it can also be used for some visual reference lessons . Instrument interpretationScanning and cross-checking the 6-pack of instruments can be done in a simulator just fine , and a student can practice doing it for long periods of time for a fraction of the cost of flight-time . Training Areas simulators are very bad at : On the ground &amp; Outside the planeAnything on the ground , such as taxiing and parking , or anything outside the airplane , such as pre-flight inspection , or weather interpretation , just does n't work in a sim . RadiosI have n't seen any flight sims that really work for the
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
When pilots are trained for flying in an aircraft type they have not flown in before , they go through type rating , then line training . During the type rating , they learn where all the instruments and buttons are , what starts which system , how the plane behaves , how to land and auto-land etc. . During line training , they spend time in the cockpit together with an instructor pilot , usually a senior captain . Most airlines have a 3-person crew in the cockpit when a new F/O is receiving line training . This training is about the airline specific bit of flying , company procedures etc. . Note that before going to type rating , the pilot already has at least a commercial flying license : they can fly already . Depending on the country , the type rating can take place in a Level D simulator for 100 % . Some countries still require a couple of actual flights in an aircraft , but there is an increasing trend to use Level D simulators only , for two reasons : Back when the airlines paid and arranged for type ratings , it was relatively simple for them to arrange for an aircraft for a training flight , empty or not . But now a majority of type ratings is self funded , how does a student find the finance to charter an empty aircraft ? The realism of Level D simulators is incredible . My office used to be not far from the simulators - every once in a while I would hear the siren for the sim coming down at an unscheduled time , for an unscheduled break : the stress level inside is real , you reckon that you are really 30,000 feet up with an engine on fire , alarms sounding , actual ( non-toxic ) smoke entering the cockpit , etc. . After clearing the emergency , some students needed time to reflect . <URL> <URL> that we need 30,000 new pilots every year for the next 20 years . How do we streamline it such that all competent persons can become pilots , not only people with enough money to charter a plane ? As @user71659 points out , at airlines that only fly widebodies , standard entry position is a second officer/relief first officer/cruise pilot on a long haul plane like the 777 . ( Cathay Pacific , Singapore Airlines , Emirates , for example ) .
What you are proposing is called a " tandem wing " , and it 's been done before . A brief search should produce more than enough research papers about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular design . The near-complete absence of multiple-wing designs in modern aviation should be a hint that the design has issues . Unless you particularly need the advantages of the design more than the drawbacks , there 's no particular reason to use it .
This is some speculation , but one potential reason is that U.S. carriers already have fleets of Embraer and Bombardier jets in this basic size ( the Su-100 competes directly with the Embraer 190/195 and Bombardier 's larger CRJs and upcoming C-series ) . The companies making these jets are located in pretty firmly U.S.-allied countries that are unlikely to see any economic restrictions that might hamper the ability of U.S. regional carriers to procure new airframes or parts . The same can not be said for Russia , which from 1946 until 1991 was pretty much embargoed by NATO signatories , and the relationship between Russia and the West since then has been testy . While the U.S. currently does not have a trade embargo with Russian civilian jet production operations ( current sanctions attempt to specifically target military R&amp;D and direct investment ) , that can change in a heartbeat if Russia continues to throw its weight around in neighboring countries . Second , the seating capacity of this jet is a bit of an odd duck , as it blurs the line between the needs of regional vs. national U.S. carriers . The basic problem is that regionals , by their very nature , operate out of smaller cities with fewer potential passengers , at distances from major hubs that makes driving to that larger airport and flying from there more palatable for passengers . These considerations cause passenger count on regionals to drop off dramatically compared to longer " national " routes . The largest thing American Eagle currently flies is a Bombardier CRJ-900 ( 75 passengers in 2-class config ) , with the most commonly operated jet in AE 's fleet being the Embraer ERJ145 ( 50 seats all-economy ) . By comparison the smallest plane operated under the full American badge is the A319 ( 124 seats in 2-class config ) . There 's an obvious gap between the two subsidiaries ' aircraft capacities , but not much interest ( by American at least ) in filling it with a 100-seat jet like the SSJ100 ( or E195 or C100 ) . The primary reason is the collective bargaining agreements that pilots have with the airlines ; they include , among other things , a requirement segregating the aircraft used by regional versus national subsidiaries . If you want to fly a plane with more than 80-100 seats ( depending on exact terms of the agreement ) on the route , you 're paying a national airline flight crew the extra bucks to fly it ; it 's a violation of the CBA to put a 737 or A319 in the hands of a regional airline pilot because that takes the job away from the more senior pilots . A secondary reason is that U.S. domestic airlines like American tend to favor more , smaller flights over fewer larger ones . This allows the airline to " rightsize " the route schedule ( and its fleet ) to passenger demand more closely and with fewer disruptions . If on a given day of the week , 200 passengers need to get between a regional airport and a larger hub , the airline could do that with four 50-place jets , or 3 75-place jets , or two 100-place jets . Theoretically , if demand were constant , it could save money the fewer flights it made , as the cost of the 50-seat Embraer 's two-man flight crew would be roughly the same as the Sukhoi 's , but with the Sukhoi you spread that cost over twice the passengers so your gross margin is higher . However , an empty seat is a big fat goose-egg on the revenue for that seat for the flight , so if passenger demand varies ( and it does , from day to day and seasonally ) , running larger jets either forces you to turn away some customers that you ca n't fit into the reduced schedule , or add flights that run mostly empty . Neither of these are palatable options for the airline ; one pushes potential customers into the arms of their competitors , while the other has you running at least one flight that day costing tens of thousands of dollars for a handful of people with tickets whose regional component of the price might not even cover the pilot 's salary for the duration of the flight ( regionals are often " connecting " flights ; DFW to PHX costs about \ $ 320 , ACT to DFW about \ $ 300 , but ACT to PHX via DFW only costs about \ $ 360 , so depending on how you part it out , the ACT-DFW leg of ACT-PHX might only really make you \ $ 40 a seat , which might not break even if the plane 's full , much less if it 's half empty ) . So , assuming any plane an airline would buy or lease is profitable when it 's fully loaded with paying customers , American is more likely to successfully operate a route , and its entire network , using more smaller planes and scheduling a different number of interchangeable airframes and flight crews each day to maximize utilization , than it would be trying to also minimize the number of flights by using a variety of airframe sizes , which involves ensuring those airframes and the flight crews to run them are all in the right places at the right times ( and deadheading - flying an empty plane from where it is right now to where it will be needed later - is bad no matter what the plane size , but typic
The FAA standards seem to anticipate the use of firearms by people attempting to gain unlawful access to the cockpit . Opening locks with firearms is probably not as successful as TV would have you believe . Cockpit Door Standards Press Release -- FAA Sets New Standards for Cockpit Doors Release No . APA 01-02 January 11 , 2002 Contact : Alison Duquette Phone : 202-267-3462 WASHINGTON , DC In response to President Bush 's call to strengthen aircraft security , the U.S. Department of Transportation 's Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) today published new standards to protect cockpits from intrusion and small arms fire or fragmentation devices , such as grenades . The Aviation and Transportation Security Act authorizes the FAA to issue today 's final rule that requires operators of more than 6,000 airplanes to install reinforced doors by April 9 , 2003 . From <URL> This press release does n't actually say that the locks on the doors must resist being fired on using handguns but it is apparent that the scenarios envisaged included those where handguns were present . There are obviously other measures to prevent passengers carrying combat shotguns into the cabin surreptitiously . Guns and Locks In movies and television , a locked door , or a padlock on a cage is never an impediment so long as the Hero has bullets to spare . One or two shots is generally enough to destroy the lock , allowing the door to open . Unfortunately , in real life -- as shown by the MythBusters -- this requires a high powered gun at close range , which causes lots of very dangerous shrapnel . Lesser firearms , especially handguns may harmlessly bury rounds in even standard padlocks to little effect . Only SWAT teams and soldiers ever do this in real life , and it involves a shotgun , Kevlar body armor , specialized ammunition ( a powdered metal breaching round , often jokingly referred to as " Avon Calling " ) , and full face protection . Even then , the goal is not specifically to destroy the lock , but to destroy the surrounding door or the hinges . From <URL> Other references <URL>
Cyclic pumping will likely degrade your performance <URL> e , it leads to rotor inefficiencies As far as moving the cyclic around goes it destroys lift as the TRT vector is all over the place and not acting in one place or close too it and more power is required What is this TRT he 's talking about ? <URL> In a still air hover , TRT is , in broad terms , equal and opposite to weight . As the disc is tilted to commence a transition into forward flight , the TRT vector is tilted and must be increased so that its vertical component remains equal to weight if level flight is to be maintained . With <URL> in mind , pumping the cyclic with the engines working simply means that you need more power from your engine to keep your Nr up to fly , as you are being inefficient . If you have no power , pumping the cyclic is counter productive to your efforts at maintaining Nr since the back and forth creates sequential inefficiencies , and more drag but you have no engine to restore Nr ... and in the situation you describe , your precious Nr is a critical resource to your walking away from the forced landing or crash . Depending on what is happening , a slight turn or flare ( aft cyclic , not foreward ) may load the head and preserve Nr a bit so that it 's still turning with enough inertia to help you as you near the ground and need that cushion from the collective as you hit the ground . Each bit of Nr you retain for that last pull is critical , in that situation . It 's a tough one , the low speed , not-quite-inside-the-Hv-diagram scenario that you presented . Consult the manual for your model helicopter , and the H-V diagram . Know your limitations .
As long as there are load-bearing structures beneath the fiber ( I do n't know how strong that fiber is so I will assume it is fabric-like ) , it will most likely fly if designed properly . If the fiber is smooth , it should n't be much different than regular fabric or other composite skins . And yes , there are plenty of sailplanes that self launch with electric or gas motors . You would just have to take into account the weight and position of the motor when you add it in . This could mean that you need to lengthen the tail section for more tail down force , move the seats further back , place the engine in a more neutral CG position above the fuselage on a pylon , or any number of other methods . You might then also need to increase the wing surface area a bit , to lift the extra weight . Also take into account the weight and position of the batteries . The design effects and considerations are pretty straightforward , but dealing with them may or may not be complicated . The Soviets tried in the 1930 's to make an invisible spy plane ( an AIR-6 I believe ) by replacing the cloth skin with a cellophane-like material so that its entire was transparent . At just a few thousand feet the engine could be heard but the plane was almost completely invisible . Unfortunately the cellophane-like material would rapidly degrade after a few flights or several days out in the sun . It seems like your idea would be the modern version of that endeavor .
Lets back up a minute and discuss what is required to enter C and D airspace . For C and D airspace you must establish 2 way radio communications with tower or approach controller . Let 's first discuss how this works if you are not taking Flight Following . As you approach Class C airspace you hail them and wait for a response , for example , You : " Allentown Approach Piper 1234J @ 3000 en route to Queen City Municipal " Controller : " 1234J Squawk 1-3-5-2 and Ident " Since the controller responded with your tail number you may enter the Charlie airspace ( Delta has the same requirements ) . Now when you are under Flight Following , ATC will coordinate a handoff to the Approach or Tower for the airspace you are about to enter , or ATC will say " radar services terminated , " and you must contact the controller/tower yourself before entering . You SHOULD NOT change frequencies until you are told to do so , since ATC may be trying to give you a traffic advisory . You can however tune your second radio ( if you have one ) to the approach/tower you are approaching , and begin to monitor traffic .
A lot has changed since the Frank Abagnale / " Catch Me If You Can " days , and riding as a non-revenue passenger ( particularly in the cockpit jump seat ) is no longer not as simple as grabbing a passable captain 's uniform , polishing your shoes up , and smooth-talking the flight crew . Someone seeking a ride in an airplane jump seat would still have to pass through airport security and prove their identity &amp; authorization to occupy such a seat to the satisfaction of the crew operating the flight , which would likely include checking credentials that are at lease somewhat difficult to forge . So in short it 's possible -- if someone is particularly adept at <URL> , forgery , and has at least a working knowledge of airport &amp; airline security procedures they might get away with it -- but it 's extremely unlikely , and as has been pointed out the consequences if and when you get caught are particularly unpleasant these days .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
There are a number of things to take into account : The distance between the runways ; can they be operated as independent runways ? This requires the centrelines to be more than 1035 meter apart . The traffic mix : is there constantly the same distance between landings or a large gap every now and then between a Heavy and a Medium that allows for one or two departures in between ? The runway entry and exit points . Can aircraft wait sufficiently short of the approach end to allow for a rapid departure when cleared for take-off ? Does the runway have high-speed exit taxi-ways at appropriate places for the landing traffic to vacate the runway quickly or is a slow 90 degree turn required ? In general , mixed mode operations can increase capacity significantly . For example the estimate for London Heathrow is that the traffic could increase from <URL> . But it is not a simple change . The requirements on ATC increase . For example , to monitor the parallel approaches , the update rate and accuracy of the surveillance system must meet higher standards than for single runway approaches . Also missed approach and emergency procedures need to be changed . And then there is an important noise issue ; in mixed mode operations , all four runway ends are continuously exposed to aircraft noise , while in dedicated operations the departure end of one runway and the arrival end of the other is not exposed . " Back of the envelope " estimation : For simplicity let 's assume traffic that is only Medium wake category with 3NM final approach separation at about 150 knots groundspeed . This would result in ~ 75 seconds intervals between aircraft passing the threshold for a pure landing runway , allowing for 48 landing per hour . In mixed mode , a line up and hold instruction would be given as soon as the landing aircraft is passed the numbers , so take-off will commence quickly after take-off clearance is given . The take-off clearance itself can be given as soon as the landing aircraft has vacated the runway , which should be about 60 seconds after it crossed the threshold . The take-off run itself is 30-40 seconds for B737 / A320 family aircraft . Let 's add about 20 seconds reaction and engine spool up time + margin . The next landing aircraft can cross the threshold after lift-off . The interval would be ~ 120 seconds between landing aircraft , resulting in 30 landings per hour . But this can be done on two runways at the same time , effectively increasing the throughput by about 25 % percent . The above schedule is very idealised with pure alternating take-off and landings and little margin for error . If put in practice it will probably result in too many go arounds due to late take-offs , but it gives good idea of the capacity increase that is possible .
External cameras for diagnosing aircraft issues are not used on any current aircraft . As mentioned in another <URL> and <URL> , some aircraft do have external cameras , but these are more for maneuvering on the ground . One reason for this is that cheap , high definition cameras that can stream directly to a monitor in the cockpit are a fairly recent invention . Previously , such an addition would have been fairly heavy and expensive to add to an aircraft . As mentioned , some newer aircraft that have digital cockpit displays do have external cameras for other purposes . However , even in aircraft with cameras , they are generally not used for diagnosing issues . A lot of aircraft issues , especially with engines , are not readily visible from the outside . Internally placed sensors are still much better at detecting issues . Landing gear in particular may appear to be extended but not locked properly . Pilots are more concerned with how functional something is . Modern aircraft are equipped with hundreds of sensors and these are designed to give the pilots all the information they need about the functionality of the aircraft . These sensors are much more simple and precise than a camera . External cameras may give a misleading picture of the aircraft 's state , and decisions lean towards an abundance of caution . Unless there is some extremely obvious discrepancy , it 's unlikely that a camera will be trusted over the sensors . Of course there are still incidents such as fuel leaks and fires that external cameras would help to identify . However , the aircraft sensors should be able to detect these issues once they are serious enough . Pilots also get information from passengers/crew in the cabin , and from external observers in other aircraft or air traffic control . Cameras are also limited in where they can be placed to provide a good view of things , and how well they will perform at night or in bad weather . There may be a general case for cameras being helpful in identifying issues , but these situations are rare enough that is is hard to justify the expense . If something is enough of a risk that you need to point a camera at it , you 're better off just fixing it so it 's less of a risk .
Based on my personal experience , the answer is NO ( as of the time of writing ) . I use both systems regularly , and have discovered the two do not share flight plans at the user account level . ForeFlight uses its own account ( and not individual user accounts ) to interact with Lockheed Martin Flight Services . Because of this , it appears that LMFS has no way of knowing which user account is associated with a flight plan filed through ForeFlight . Identifying data within the flight plan itself ( i.e. , name and phone ) are not processed by the filing system , merely stored for later retrieval if needed . I mention this because LMFS can ( upon request ) associate tail numbers with a phone number , so that when you call them on 800-WX-BRIEF your profile comes up on their screen automatically ( though I have found this to be less useful than one might think ) . In order to use the services you have identified , you will need to file your flight plan directly on the LMFS web site ( and have your notification settings configured properly ) . With that said , all of these functions ( with the exception SE-SAR ) , have been available directly within ForeFlight for some time : ACAS/ATC notices - if configured by the user , sent via push notification ( <URL> ) EasyActivate/EasyClose - flight plans can be amended/canceled/activated / closed within the File &amp; Brief window ( <URL> ) Close reminder - sent via push notification ( <URL> ) Over the past couple of years , ForeFlight has been aggressively working towards tighter integration with LMFS , so I would expect additional functionality to be forthcoming ( purely speculative , since they are very tight-lipped about upcoming enhancements ) . UPDATE : It looks like LMFS now offers integrated services with a number of providers ( but not ForeFlight ) . My guess is ForeFlight does n't allow it because it was already offering the same services and now needs to figure out a way to ensure users do n't get duplicate messages : <URL>
Clouds can be formed in many different ways . Before we go through them , we need to establish some basic facts . Clouds are made up of liquid water , or solid ice . Clouds are not water vapour ; water is a gas , and is invisible . Once more , because this is important : clouds are liquid water , not water vapour . Water droplets in clouds are extremely small . Clouds are visible because light is scattered in these droplets . The water droplets can stay suspended in the sky due to friction and air currents . In order for water vapour to condense into liquid water droplets , to form clouds , condensation nuclei must be present . This can be tiny particles of dust or other impurities around which water droplets can form . This is where the idea of human cloud generation comes form - by adding condensation nuclei to the atmosphere , clouds are more likely to form . A mass of air can contain a certain amount of water vapour ( = gas ) . The maximum amount depends on several factors , of which the most important one is temperature . Cold air can contain less water vapour than warm air . If more water vapour is present than the air can contain , the water has to condense ( the opposite of evaporate ) , to form water droplets - clouds . So , how are clouds formed then ? By adding moisture Air can only contain a certain amount of water vapour . If we try to add more water vapour to the air , it " wo n't fit " . As a result , the water vapour will condense , forming visible water droplets - clouds . This can happen over a surface of water during a warm day , when surface water evaporates . The air wo n't be able to absorb the evaporated water , so instead it has to become liquid . Cooling from below ( advection ) Warm air can contain more water vapour than cold air . When a warm , moist airmass moves over a cold surface , the temperature of the air will drop . When reaching a certain temperature , the air becomes saturated - it contains exactly as much water vapour as it possible can . We call this temperature the dew point . If the air is cooled further , some of the water vapour in the air has to condense into water droplets . Imagine squeezing a saturated sponge - the water has to come out . Adiabatic cooling ( convection ) On a sunny day , the sun will heat up the surface of the earth . Because the surface is not uniform , it will heat up at different rates . A sandy field will get much warmer than a wet area , for example . The air directly above such hot areas will also be heated up , by radiation from the surface . Hot air has a lower density than cold air , so at some point it will start to rise ( " heat rises " ) . As this warm bubble of air rises , it will start to expand . This is because pressure drops with altitude . As the air expands , it will cool off . Now we 're back at the basic principle that cold air can hold less water vapour than hot air . As our bubble of air rises , and cools down , at some point , it will reach the dew point , and a cloud will form . The adiabatic lapse rate is the rate at which a bubble of rising air will cool off with altitude . Rising air will cool with approximately 3 degrees C per 1,000 ft of altitude gain ( dry adiabatic lapse rate - DALR ) , simply because it expands as a result of the lower pressure . When air starts to condense , and a cloud forms , this process releases latent heat . Simply put , it took energy to make the water evaporate , and this energy is released again when the water condenses . This means that once our bubble of rising air reaches the dew point , and a cloud starts to form , it will actually cool off slower . The saturated adiabatic lapse rate ( SALR ) is approximately 1.5 degrees C per 1,000 ft. Now , for how long will our bubble of air keep rising ? It will keep rising as long as the air surrounding it is cooler than itself . The general temperature of the atmosphere at a given location is known as the enviromental lapse rate - ELR or ELT . As long as the DALR is less than the ELR up to the dew point , rising air will form clouds . Frontal lifting A warm front is when a mass of warm air moves forwards , displacing a mass of colder air . Since warm air has a lower density than cold air , when the two air masses meet , the warm air will be forced upwards , above the cold air . This causes the air to expand , and cool . As this happens , the air might reach the dew point , and clouds will be formed . Orographic lift Orographic lift is quite similar to frontal lift . Instead of being forced up by cold air below , an air mass is forced upwards by terrain ( i.e. wind blowing towards a mountain ) . Then it 's the same old story - the air rises , expands , cools and water vapour condenses . Turbulence and convergence Mechanical turbulence , for example due to rough terrain , can cause vertical movements in the atmosphere . If these are large enough , air can be forced upwards , which , as we now know , will form a cloud . Convergence is when two air masses move towards each other , creating a vertical stream of air in the middle . This column of air moves upwards , an
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
Basic flying rules require the pilot to be able , at any time : to maintain the aircraft safe attitude , to avoid other aircraft and obstacles , to know where he/she is , to find their way to the landing aerodrome . Does the pilot need to see outside ? It depends ... Any of these tasks are possible with viewing the environment . A trained pilot in an aircraft with the appropriate equipment , with the appropriate support and equipment on the ground , can also perform any of these tasks without seeing anything outside the aircraft . VMC vs. IMC There is a set of minimum conditions to declare that the outside environment is visible : these conditions are known as <URL> ( VMC ) . When VMC are not achieved , the conditions are said to be IMC , for <URL> . VFR vs. IFR Any flight must be done under one of the two existing set of rules : <URL> ( VFR ) <URL> ( IFR ) . The rules to be followed are dictated by regulation and are directly dependent on the meteorological conditions . In VMC : A VFR flight is allowed . A pilot may elect to fly IFR , at convenience . In IMC : You must use IFR , but you have to be allowed to do that . The aircraft must be certified for IFR . ( For the sake of completeness , a <URL> flight may be allowed while under IMC ) . What we said so far is : a pilot may fly without visibility ( IMC ) , but to do that must be trained and allowed , must follow IFR , and the aircraft must be certified for IFR . Landing without visibility , source : <URL> . Which instruments are required to fly IFR ? Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to maintain a safe attitude of the aircraft , e.g. ( left-to-right , top-to-bottom ) <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . <URL> Main instruments , source : <URL> Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to navigate , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , documentation on-board . ILS principle , source : <URL> Some equipment is required to be interlocked with <URL> ( ATC ) , e.g. radio , <URL> . Typical ATC room , source : <URL> See also : <URL> Some equipment may be required to avoid collision and accidents into terrain , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . IFR flying aircrafts are separated by ATC , to help the pilot to avoid other aircraft . TCAS , source : <URL> Most of the commercial airliners fly under IFR , regardless of the conditions . In addition they have a <URL> . Try to fly IFR with <URL> .
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
Flight time is only considered compensation when the pilot is not paying all the costs associated with the flight . If the costs are to be shared the following advice is recommended . A private pilot can be compensated , up to a pro-rata share , of the cost of that specific flight . This would include rental fees , fuel , oil and such . It does not include items like insurance and annual inspection fees . The overall regulation is found in <URL> ( b ) A private pilot may , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if : ( 1 ) The flight is only incidental to that business or employment ; and ( 2 ) The aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . ( c ) A private pilot may not pay less than the pro rata share of the operating expenses of a flight with passengers , provided the expenses involve only fuel , oil , airport expenditures , or rental fees . You should be able to see pretty quickly that you are allowed to transport yourself by private airplane to a business meeting . There is good reason to fly to ; depending on the distance , it could be quicker to fly a private airplane than it is to drive saving you time and money . However , the moment the company decides that you should fly to all of your meetings it is no longer incidental to that business and operations must cease . If you want to fly passengers , and also want them to pay their pro-rata share . There are three things that must be considered . There must be a bona-fide purpose for the PIC to make the flight . The reason can not be that the passenger has a business meeting at the destination and you want to get lunch . You , as the pilot , must have a reason to make the trip , whether or not the passenger ( s ) come along . The PIC must dictate where the flight is going to go . Again , you can not make a flight with passengers where you drop them off at one airport while you fly to a different airport . Why would you land at the first airport , if you have no need to land there ? You can not " hold out " or advertise that you are going somewhere and wait to see if other passengers are interested in going to the same location . There are <URL> that have been shut down by the FAA for doing just that . <URL> <URL> The Chero Interpretation December 26 , 1985 Thomas H. Chero Vice President - Legal AVEMCO Insurance Company Frederick Municipal Airport 411 Aviation Way Frederick , MD 21701 Dear Mr. Chero : Thank you for your letters to this office , dated September 9 , 1985 , and October 23 , 1985 , respectively , concerning the actions of the Pilots and Passengers Association ( PPA ) . You are correct in stating that Section 61.118 of the Federal Aviation Regulations ( FAR ) prohibits private pilots from participating in PPA 's operations . Section 61.118 provides that a private pilot can not act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers for compensation or hire unless the flight falls within one of the four listed exceptions in 61.118 ( a ) - ( d ) . Section 61.118 ( b ) allows a private pilot to share the operating expenses of a flight with his or her passengers . Additionally , the FAA has interpreted 61.118 ( b ) so that the only allowable share-the-costs operations are those which are bona fide , that is , joint ventures for a common purpose with the expenses being defrayed by all passengers and the pilot . Nor does Section 61.118 permit pilots who want to build up time toward their commercial pilot certificates to carry expense sharing passengers to a destination at which they have no particular business . ( emphasis added ) PPA pilots apparently would not share in the expenses of the flights they would undertake . It also appears that PPA pilots could be flying to destinations at which they had no particular business . The PPA system is not a casual one of an individual pilot wishing to take some friends or acquaintances with him on a trip . The PPA system would violate the letter , as well as the spirit , of Section 61.118 . Even if the pilot bears an equal share of the expenses with his or her passengers and indeed has his or her own need to fly to a particular destination , yet another problem arises . Since PPA 's passengers would be solicited for flights by PPA from a broad segment of the general public , we conclude that each pilot carrying paying passengers from PPA would probably be engaged in common carriage . This means that each pilot would become an air carrier subject to the certification and operating rules of Part 135 of the FAR . We appreciate your calling our attention to this matter . Sincerely , John H. Cassady Assistant Chief Counsel Regulations and Enforcement Division
end question
start question
Why do n't all flights use the North Atlantic Tracks ( NATs ) ?
The answer does n't state that half of the flights between western Europe and North America use the North Atlantic Oceanic Track System ( OTS ) . It states that half of the flights over the North Atlantic use the OTS . Part of the flights over the North Atlantic do n't cross between western Europe and North America and they do n't use the tracks . Examples are flights to/from Iceland or the Azores . Also flights crossing between Ireland and the North Western point of Spain are entering the North Atlantic Region . Also part of the flights that do cross between western Europe and North America and vice versa may use random routing for various reason . On some days the winds are such that favourable tracks to North America are within the Reykjavik control area , which allows for random routings . Some combinations of origin / destination are better served by avoiding the OTS area at all . For example flights between the Iberian peninsula and Florida are generally South of the OTS .
The general rule is : If you read it , it 's true . If you hear it , it 's magnetic . All charts and textual sources ( METAR , TAF , winds aloft , surface analysis charts , etc ) use true north as the reference . ATIS/AWOS/ASOS broadcasts , or any information a controller gives you over the radio , is magnetic . Wind direction broadcast over FAA radios is in reference to magnetic north . <URL> ( page 7-1-26 in the 5/26/16 edition ) One exception to the " if you hear it " rule is that a FSS briefer will read you the winds referenced to true north , since they 're just reading you the charts/textual information . ( This is at least true in the United States ... other countries may vary in some instances )
The answer does n't state that half of the flights between western Europe and North America use the North Atlantic Oceanic Track System ( OTS ) . It states that half of the flights over the North Atlantic use the OTS . Part of the flights over the North Atlantic do n't cross between western Europe and North America and they do n't use the tracks . Examples are flights to/from Iceland or the Azores . Also flights crossing between Ireland and the North Western point of Spain are entering the North Atlantic Region . Also part of the flights that do cross between western Europe and North America and vice versa may use random routing for various reason . On some days the winds are such that favourable tracks to North America are within the Reykjavik control area , which allows for random routings . Some combinations of origin / destination are better served by avoiding the OTS area at all . For example flights between the Iberian peninsula and Florida are generally South of the OTS .
Forward flight is much more efficient than hovering . As airspeed builds , lift increases from " translational " lift as the air moves more horizontally over the disc . Since the relative airflow is more horizontal , the angle of attack for a given pitch angle is increased . The vortices and turbulence move behind and down from the helicopter so undisturbed air is drawn over the disc to be accelerated downwards to produce lift . Lift is more efficiently produced by accelerating a large mass by a small amount rather than a small mass by a large amount . It is more efficient to remain in ground effect and slowly increase speed to gain translational lift than to increase power to HOGE ( Hover Out of Ground Effect ) and attempt to translate . The problems you refer to are where an unwary pilot attempts to transition from HOGE whilst allowing the aircraft to climb or attempting to maintain height . Without enough power , the loss of ground effect before the benefits of translational lift are gained will result in a rapid descent back to earth ( as vortex ring state or settling with power is pretty much impossible to avoid ) or you overpitch and drag the RRPM ( rotor RPM ) down so low that you can not produce lift or even worse , stall the blades . Bottom line , it takes more power to establish positive climb out of ground effect than to gain translational lift in ground effect .
The problems are two-fold : The airspeed is much higher in flight than when landing , so the thrust reverser doors would have to be much stronger , and therefore heavier to withstand the additional forces , along with the relative wind making them harder to close . What happens when it gets stuck in the deployed position ? Now you have to shut down a perfectly good engine and have additional drag on the airplane while in flight . ( Bonus ) It is n't really needed on most airplanes with spoilers , flaps , etc. that accomplish the same thing .
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
Please forgive me for asking if you are a " flat earth truther " . We sometimes get those numpties passing by trying to justify their theories ( especially the one about <URL> t to make sure no-one learns the secret ) . There have been many flights over the geographic South Pole , the first documented one being in 1935 by <URL> . See also the <URL> . <URL> , using a Boeing 747SP , also flew over both poles . No scheduled commercial flights over fly the South Pole since there are <URL> . Flights from New Zealand to South Africa would fly over Antarctica but no airline currently flies that route . As to problems with the compass , modern aircraft have no problems since the primary navigation source is GPS . If you were using a compass only , as you got close to the magnetic South pole ( remember , this is not even in Antarctica ) , the compass would become increasingly unreliable . Simply maintain a straight course though , over the pole , and the compass will become increasingly reliable . However , navigating over the magnetic poles using only a compass is the preserve of explorers and the fool-hardy . <URL> regarding navigation . It talks mainly about the North magnetic pole but is applicable to both . A couple of other considerations when asking about commercial flights is the need for <URL> and the need to carry special survival equipment when flying south of latitude 72 degrees which is very considerable and would require the removal of revenue seats to carry it . There is a big difference between the nearest suitable diversion airport flying over the Arctic and flying over the Antarctic .
There is actually quite a lot of difference between ARINC-429 and MIL-STD-1553 . They are different because they were developed by two different groups with different needs . Both started in the 1970 's . Before then there was almost no digital data of any kind on a an aircraft . It was almost all analog or discrete . The biggest issue was noise and interference of the signals . The introduction of microprocessors in the early 70 's opened up the option for reasonably priced digital bus technology . The MIL-STD-1553 bus was a major component of the F-16 . Like most military programs , this was a push for maximum performance . ARINC-429 came out of the Boeing 757/767 development effort . Civilian aircraft certification does n't like a lot of risk and the simpler bus architecture made it easier to design , analyze , and certify . Since then there have been a number of new buses introduced into aviation . Some have lasted longer than others . B777 introduced ARINC-629 and Fibrechannel . B787 uses ARINC 664 for the main buses with a large mix of ARINC-429 and ARINC-825 ( CAN bus ) as well . There are a number of data concentrators/converters on the aircraft to get data where it needs to go . The primary reason for moving away from ARINC-429 is that it is a single transmitter/multiple receiver architecture . This results in a large amount of physical wire . That adds weight and requires maintenance . A bus such as ARINC-664 , which is based on Ethernet , can significantly reduce wire . The down side is that it costs a lot more and is n't very efficient when all you need is a small , low rate connection to an odd corner of the aircraft . So you end up with a mix of buses . And B787 opted for fiber optic cable for the ARINC-664 network to reduce interference from high-intensity radio frequency ( HIRF ) and lightning . MIL-STD-1553 is a powerful bus , but it 's not as good a fit as many of the newer buses available in the commercial market . The military keeps using it because they have a huge installed base of equipment , it 's flexible enough to support their newer functional needs , and commonality reduces their logistics costs . ARINC-429 sticks around because it 's cheap and it has its own large installed base as well .
In theory yes . The loss of the engines will mean you also lose the generators and hydraulic pumps , but Concorde was equipped with a RAT which drove it 's secondary and emergency hydraulic systems , so control would be possible . Having never flown Concorde , but familiar with the flight characteristics of supersonic , high performance aircraft , I would guess such a forced landing would be flown at a steep angle of descent and at higher speeds say around 220-230 kts with leveling out in a shallow descent and roundout at or very near the threshold , placing the aircraft down at Vref in 1000-1500 feet thereafter .
Proper trim control technique involves exerting control pressure to attain the desired attitude then using the trim to alleviate the requirement of holding that pressure . There can be a temptation for pilots to make small adjustments using trim alone . Resist the temptation and use the proper procedure . We use the proper technique because it 's the most precise way to use trim . If adjustments are made with the trim directly we 'll end up over-controlling and chasing the correct trim position . Trim is n't just a convenience . Especially for pilots flying in instrument conditions , alleviating the load of holding control pressure and ensuring that if the pilot lets go of the controls the airplane maintains its attitude are a matter of safety . The <URL> explains Trim Control starting on 3-6 . It lists the proper technique in greater detail and provides a complete rationale . There 's also the matter of doing things the same way every time . Once we 've established the right procedure , we should always use it to enforce the habit . This also benefits the pilot when things get busy . Proficient instrument pilots are experts in using trim effectively . Predefined trim positions are impractical because they vary based on weight , CG , airspeed and other factors . These factors change the amount of downforce required on the elevator and therefore the trim position . Situations like " level at 8000 " or " gliding descent " wo n't always result in the same trim position . For other control surfaces there are similar factors . We do have predefined trim positions for takeoff , but loading often makes those undesirable and trimming is required immediately . During flight training , good trimming technique becomes especially important during instrument training . There 's a lot of good information about trim and its importance in the <URL> .
Many airlines do in fact have inflight camera feeds for Cabin surveillance so I do not think the question is relevant to most major airlines anymore . For a specific example , Emirates Airline employs the Cabin Video Monitoring Systems ( CVMS ) across its fleet of Airbus A380 aircraft . These Cabin cameras can be accessed by Cockpit crew through the System Display or the Cabin crew through the FAP ( Flight Attendant Panel ) and for any abnormal situation such as a hijacking/hostage situation on ground , the CVMS can be accessed on a laptop via the GSP ( Ground Service Panel ) . Additionally , as mentioned above , they have landscape cameras installed for an external video feed but that is more of a feature for passengers . The advantages of a CVMS in a hijacking/hostage situation such as positioning , identity , body language and weapons of the hijackers plus general operational advantages such as issues during boarding/offloading and other emergency situations such as an evacuation are great and not to be discounted .
One of the main reasons wing tip tanks were used was to <URL> by adding mass to the end of the wings . As time has progressed and our understanding of materials has grown as well as our ability to design structures better the need for tricks like this has gone away . As our general understanding of aerodynamics has gotten better so has the understanding of the <URL> . As such wing tip tanks have been traded out for wing tip devices . In some cases the tip tanks are an option available as a later add-on or at purchase time . Generally this increases the range of the aircraft at the cost of useful load . As such , it may just be that most people who order planes these days prefer the higher useful load and the reduced range , rather than the extended range flying with a lighter load . You can find some more discussion <URL> .
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
Do they kill people on the ground ? Almost certainly a few do . People struck by falling bullets are more likely to die than people shot directly . The chances of a particular bullet falling onto a person are very small but over the decades , many many bullets have been fired by aircraft . Handgun bullets Between the years 1985 and 1992 , doctors at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles , California , treated some 118 people for random falling-bullet injuries . Thirty-eight of them died . Bullets fired into the air during celebrations return at a speed fast enough to penetrate the skin and cause internal damage to other organs in the path of the migrating bullet . The bullet 's velocity required for skin penetration is between 148 and 197 feet per second . A velocity of less than 200 feet per second , which is easily obtained by a celebratory gunfire , is capable of fracturing bone and even causing intracranial penetration [ 4 ] . Spent bullets have the capability of reaching up to 600 feet per second during their downfall , and thus they have the ability to inflict damage to multiple body cavities [ 4 ] . The larger caliber bullets ( ie , .45 - caliber ) reach a higher terminal velocity compared with the smaller caliber bullets ( ie , .30 - caliber ) , because of the proportion of their weight to their diameter [ 4 ] . From <URL> For those hit by falling bullets , the chance of the wound being fatal was far higher than a typical shooting . The hospital put deaths from regular shootings between 2 % and 6 % , while for those struck by falling bullets the death rate was close to one third . From <URL> Aircraft rounds These falling bullets were from celebratory gunfire , not fired from aircraft . Aircraft cannon fire projectiles which are often much heavier than handgun rounds . If one falls on you , the likelihood of injury or death must be higher . .22 Winchester magnum rimfire and .50 Browning MG rounds at same scale . <URL>
Airplanes are expected by air traffic control to turn at a " standard rate of turn " which is 3 degrees per second . This will provide a 90 degree turn in 30 seconds . A standard rate is used so that controllers can anticipate how long it takes for an airplane to turn to a heading and they can line them up easier . It also makes the turn happen in a smaller amount of airspace so that two airplanes can be flying in the same general vicinity without getting too close . Unfortunately , at the speeds that jet airplanes travel this would mean a very high angle of bank . A standard rate turn at 200 KT TAS is about 30 degrees of bank and jets can go much faster than this , which would require even higher bank angles . They actually limit it to 25 degrees of bank when using a flight director , mainly for passenger comfort . It can be impressive when looking out the window and seeing the ground , but do n't worry , the airplane is more than designed for it ! This is used mainly at lower altitudes where there are lots of airplanes . Once they are up high and airplanes are further apart ( and the turns are also usually smaller ) they can bank even less ( by using a " half-bank " mode ) which adds to passenger comfort .
Short and direct answer ATC centers have no public websites in general . Aeronautical and ATC information is distributed by a fixed dedicated network , the <URL> ( AFS ) and its data network <URL> . From <URL> : The agreed OTS is promulgated by means of the NAT Track Message via the AFTN to all interested addressees . A typical time of publication of the day-time OTS is 2200 UTC and of the night-time OTS is 1400 UTC . FAA and other agencies provide for convenience the NATS message on the web , e.g. for FAA at : <URL> You 'll find this message repeated on many aviation blogs , embedded in a web page and served as MIME type . Unfortunately I do n't know whether a server provides it as . However it 's easy to extract tracks data using a syntactic parser . Many , if not all , routing/planner software use the URL above as the source of their NATS data . For example <URL> , written in C# uses class <URL> to download and parse NATS data from FAA site , using <URL> : This is the direct answer to your question , but I 'll provide additional details more related to what is track system and how the track messages are built twice a day . Feel free to continue reading ! Polar jet , organized track system and track messages The north Atlantic track system ( NATS ) or <URL> ( NAT-OTS ) is a set of westbound and eastbound routes crossing the Atlantic ocean between North America and Europe . Polar jet stream Aircraft fuel consumption and ground speed can be significantly improved by using tailwinds or minimizing headwinds rather than just following the shortest path ( great circle ) between two locations . The prevalent winds in altitude in this area are due to the interaction between the Ferrel cell and the polar cell ( this theory is still a discussion ) . They are seemingly deflected eastward by the rotation of the Earth ( <URL> ) . The position of the cells slowly changes and winds with them . <URL> Atmospheric circulation ( <URL> ) This interaction and the lower tropopause near the poles result in the polar jet undulating from Canada to northern Europe at an altitude of about 8-10 km . Speed is often between 50 and 150 kt , but 200 kt has been seen . On this map the colored lines are locations of equal wind speed , aka isotachs . The maximum intensity depicted in red is the polar jet : <URL> Polar jet ( <URL> ) The thickness of the polar jet streams is usually less than 5 km and their width a few hundreds of km . To take advantage of jet streams when flying to Europe , aircraft must be packed into this area . Conversely aircraft flying to the US need to follow routes where the winds , that are now headwinds , are the weakest . North Atlantic track system The track system is aimed to propose a set of routes in both directions , aligned with the jet streams , with waypoints selected to ensure proper separation . ICAO guidance for planning and using this airspace between FL285 and FL420 , where almost all commercial traffic occurs , is described in <URL> . Due to the absence of radar stations , crossing the ocean is currently done without radar surveillance and coordinated by five oceanic area control centers ( OAC ) : Gander , Shanwick , Reykjavik , Santa-Maria and New York East . Aircraft report their positions to the OAC , and OAC ensure a safe separation . The tracks use a set of fixed entry and exist points at their extremities : <URL> Overall structure , with entry and exist points ( <URL> ) Those points change over time when the NAT airspace is reorganized , e.g. with the adoption of <URL> . Due to the distribution of winds in the polar jet , flying from Europe to North America is done more northerly than flying from NA to Europe . <URL> Day-time ( westbound ) tracks A , B , C , ... ( <URL> ) <URL> Night-time ( eastbound ) tracks Z , Y , X , ... ( <URL> ) We can compare the tracks and the winds , e.g. westbound tracks : <URL> Easterly winds and westbound tracks ( <URL> ) . Wind symbol <URL> . The westbound tracks A , B , C. . . clearly try to avoid headwinds rather than following the yellow great circle located more northerly . ( Concorde , flying at a higher altitude , where winds are different , had <URL> ) . The only radar information available for ocean crossing is at the border of oceanic centers and the neighboring domestic centers . These domestic ATC have a delegation for controlling terminal sections of the tracks , e.g. on the European side : <URL> Targeting Risk Within The Shanwick OCA ( <URL> ) Track system construction The process is collaborative between airlines and ATC . From <URL> : The day prior to the tracks being published , airlines that fly the North Atlantic regularly send a preferred route message ( PRM ) to Gander and Shanwick . This allows the ATC agency to know what the route preferences are of the bulk of the North Atlantic traffic From <URL> : The night-time OTS ( eastbound ) is produced by Gander OAC and the daytime OTS ( westbound ) by Shanwick OAC , each incorporating any requirement for tracks within the New York , Reykjavik , Bodø and
Bear in mind that these tests were n't to prove the safety of the aircraft per se , just to show that it would work as an airliner . It had to be loaded up with an appropriate complement of passengers and luggage to prove this . However proving flights may not generate revenue from passengers - they are either selected through an application process or chosen at random , and take part in the proceedings free of charge . <URL> ( Page 2 , point 3 )
Yes , cargo aircraft are like other aircraft in that there is generally at least a jump seat available . Especially larger aircraft will also have <URL> . This area can be used for relief crew , or other crew that are <URL> . There are exceptions though . The upper deck of the 747 is <URL> than just the cockpit , even on the <URL> <URL> . There is more room in the back for additional crew . The <URL> and An-225 also have additional space for crew behind the cockpit . The extra crew can be loadmasters , navigators , mechanics , or other functions that can make it easier to operate in and out of airports with less services available . Here is the upper deck of a 747-400F : <URL>
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
The fuel used by civilian airlines , fueled in the USA , is <URL> . To acquire some , go to a nearby airport which can handle operations by Turboprop or Turbofan aircraft . Some of the smaller airports , only supporting piston aircraft operations , may not be able to help you , but anything which can handle a Lear Jet should be able to supply you with examples of it . There 's no specific chemical formula for this . It is a mixture of a variety of compounds . And no , you ca n't isolate just one particular compound and use it as a representative sample . There are reasons for the various additives , and all of them will have SOME effect on the burn characteristics . Try not to breathe the fumes , before or after combustion . Do not operate any kind of radio transmitter ( including a cellphone ) within 50 feet of the vapors of it ( when the fuel is exposed to air , before or during combustion ) . Make sure that whatever vessel you 're going to burn it in is metal ( plastic does n't respond well to burning petrochemicals :-) and make sure there is good electrical conductivity between the vessel and the ground . Have a large , CO2 - or Halon-based ( NOT water or dry chemical ) fire extinguisher nearby . When I was refueling F-16s in the Air Force : no radio transmitters ( walkie talkies , at the time ) were allowed with 50 feet of refueling operation the aircraft and the refueling vehicle BOTH had to be grounded and connected to each other BEFORE connecting the refueling line no refueling ops were permitted if there was lightning within 5 miles no refuelings ops were permitted without a 50-pound halon-based fire extinguisher and a dedicated person ( fire guard ) to man it This should give you some idea of proper safety around this stuff .
end question
start question
How do you start a jet engine if the start valve is stuck closed ?
Perusing the A380 Training Guide , Edition 01 , 01 Sep 2008 , Section 5 - Engine Starts , Subsections 5.8.6 ( Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ) , 5.8.6 Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ECAM actions -- ENGINE MASTER OFF . Check MEL , and in conjunction with , advise LAE of situation in preparation for Start Valve Manual Operation . For Start Valve Manual Operation on Engines # 2 and # 4 , the adjacent engine ( if already running ) will require shutdown , to enable LAE 's access to the manual start override procedure on the port side of the affected engine . As the CAB Pb on the RMP is common to the Cockpit , Ground and Cabin Crew , advise the Cabin Crew to refrain from using the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . When ready , accomplish normal engine start sequence : a ) Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . b ) Engine Master Lever to ON . c ) Command LAE to OPEN START VALVE AND KEEP OPEN . d ) At 50 % N3 , command LAE , START VALVE CLOSE . e ) Monitor engine parameters closely until stabilized . Advise Cabin Crew upon completion of procedure . In flight , only windmilling start will be available . Glossary ( correct if needed , please ) : ECAM = Electronic Centralised Aircraft Monitor LAE = Licensed Aircraft Engineer CAB = Cabin Pb = Pushbutton RMP = Radio Management Panel IGN = Ignition N1/N2/N3 = N1 is LP ( Low Pressure stage ) , N2 is IP ( Intermediate Pressure stage ) , N3 is HP ( High Pressure stage ) MEL = Minimum Equipment List ECAM will display " ENG MASTER X ... ... OFF " ( X will be the engine with stuck valve ) <URL> ( The message will appear in the lower left quadrant . ) Check the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) to determine if loss of engine is GO , GO IF , or NO GO , if failure is not in the MEL , it is classified by default as NO GO . Advise the on-site Licensed Aircraft Engineer ( LAE ) of the warning message in preparation for completing the Start Valve Manual Operation procedure . If the engine with the stuck valve is # 2 ( left side inboard ) or # 4 ( right side outboard ) , the adjacent engine will be required to be shutdown before commencing the manual start procedure . ( This is because the engineer has to access the left side of the engine and for safety 's sake the other engine , which would be gehind him must be shut down . If the fault is on the left outboard ( # 1 ) then the engineer would be on the far side of the engine from the # 2 so # 2 does not need to be shutdown . ) Since the Cabin Pushbutton ( CAB Pb ) on the Radio Management Panel ( RMP ) is common to the Cockpit , the Cabin Crew area AND the Ground circuit , the pilot should advise the Cabin Crew to not use the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . ( If the pilot and the engineer are discussing starting the engine ( or not ) they do n't want a flight attendant to be talking about starting pre-flight stuff at the same time , if the engineer heard the word start , he might wrongly assume it was the pilot . ) When pilot and engineer are ready , begin the normal engine start sequence with changes : a ) Turn the Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . <URL> b ) Flip the Engine Master Lever ( For the faulted engine ) to ON . <URL> c ) Over the interphone , command the engineer to manually open the start valve and keep it open . ( I have n't yet looked for and found a schematic for an example engine , sorry . As shown in other diagrams/answers , it might be a socket wrench , etc. ) d ) Watch the Engine Warning Display . <URL> <URL> Once N3 is spun up to 50 % , over the interphone , command the engineer to manually close the start valve . e ) Monitor the engine parameters closely until all are properly stable . f ) After the engineer has closed up the engine and vacated the area , start the other engines , if one was shut down per step 3 . Over the cabin interphone , notify the cabin crew that the procedure is complete . ( so they can resume using the interphone if needed . ) If the engine failed in-flight and upon restart a stuck valve warning was shown , all of the above would not be possible . At that time , the only way to restart the engine would be to attempt a windmill start ( using the flow of air through the engine to turn the engine ) , there are other procedures for that . Also , I do not yet have the engine schematics to show what the LAE actually does .
The biggest problem is that thrust reversers take time to move . During that time they are still producing reverse thrust ( even if only at idle ) and slowing you down . They must all completely close before you get forward thrust and can add power to start accelerating again . Then , what happens if they do n't stow , or only part of them stow ? Now you 've used up valuable runway that could have been used to stop ( or at least slow down more ) and are no longer in a position to takeoff from . The consequences can be pretty severe .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
I think you are making things too complicated on yourself . To the best of my knowledge , fighter jet controls will in principle behave the same way as almost any other aircraft - they will in general actuate surfaces the same regardless of orientation . A left/right movement controls roll , a backwards/forwards movement controls pitch . You would push the stick sufficiently to the right to bank until you reach the desired turn rate . You would have to maintain a little right stick to maintain the bank angle . As you do the above , pull back a little to ensure that the vertical speed remains zero . You also need to add a little rudder to create a coordinated turn . See the following images taken from <URL> and <URL> :
Read that other question again . He was approaching from the SSW and made an assumption based on the approach segment from AUGIE . He was n't actually on the AUGIE-BEJCY leg as it would be impossible to be there if he were approaching from the SSW . His clearance was " Direct BEJCY cleared for the GPS 01 approach " . That clearance , in lieu of any specific instructions about the procedure turn , requires that the procedure turn be flown . He assumed that because he was roughly on the extended centerline of the runway SSW of the airport that he was exempt . However , there is no charted course there labelled " NoPT " , so his assumption was incorrect . Back to your question of why someone flying from that location would have to fly the PT , and the answer generally boils down to " <URL> " . The leg from AUGIE can be flown at 3000 ft while the area minimum safe altitude is 3100 ft. It is very likely the minimum enroute altitude over that area is higher than 3100 feet . This means a pilot that is using BEJCY as the IAF may be considerably higher altitude than 3000 ft. On this approach you ideally want to be at 2500 ft by the FAF at CUCTO . If you are approaching BEJCY from any direction other than AUGIE this means you can not start your descent from whatever altitude you are at down to 2500 ' until passing BEJCY . The procedure turn is not only for course alignment but also to descend to the procedure altitude from the enroute environment .
The issue is undoubtedly vapor lock . In the fuel injected Lyc 540 , the fuel injection plumbing is on the top of the engine which is the cold side of the engine when you are flying but when parked , heat rises ! The following procedure runs cooler fuel through the plumbing while flooding the engine , then the flooded start procedure is necessary . First , check your POH for the hot start procedure for your plane . If not there , try this as it is for a very similar airplane : Hot Starts on the Saratoga PA-32-300 : Intentionally flood the engine . This runs cool fuel through the plumbing and " breaks " the vapor lock . a ) Full rich b ) Wide open throttle c ) Fuel pump on , watch fuel flow gauge d ) When gauge registers flow , wait 3-5 seconds then red knob to ICO and pump off . Crank engine with red knob still at ICO and with throttle wide open at first . Gradually close throttle ( at a rate that will take you about 10 seconds to close the throttle ) and it should start up at some point . When engine catches , do several things more or less simultaneously : a ) release ignition key b ) throttle to idle to avoid over-revving c ) mixture full rich .
There is no term ( that I am aware of ) referring to only the portion of the takeoff while the tail is off the ground . In general , the attitude where just the two main wheels are touching the ground is called " two-point . " Likewise , with the tail wheel also on the ground , it is called " three-point . " Specifically , a two-point landing is sometimes called a " wheel landing " . <URL>
The " anvil " of a Thunderstorm is always on the downwind side . Airline pilots routinely deviate around the upwind side in hopes of a smoother ride . <URL> <URL>
Can you ? Absolutely , and air traffic control will treat you ( almost ) like any other airplane . You are supposedly handled on a first-come-first-serve basis ( reality is slightly different with different aircraft speeds , etc. ) . Do the airlines like it if you slow them down ? No , but it 's part of the system and the way that it works . Very often , there are multiple runways at bigger airports , and sometimes there are even shorter runways that are dedicated for airplanes that do n't need to land on the same one as the " big boys " . Even if not , they will work you in . Now , that being said , very often there is a better option . As you said , there are usually high fees at the big airports , so landing at a smaller satellite airport can often save you money and save you time because you wo n't have to taxi as far or sit and wait in line to get out . An extra 15 minutes by car can be better than an extra 30 minutes while taxiing . As far as being prepared , it is n't really much different than smaller airports other than the fact that ATC is much busier . They do n't have the time/tolerance to keep repeating instructions to you , and expect you to be " on your game " . When they rattle off taxi instructions like " Cessna N1234 , taxi to the ramp via Alpha , Tango , Echo , and Xray . Hold short of runway 23 . " they expect a quick readback and for you to follow instructions exactly because they need to move on to the next guy . It will also help everyone out if you do n't fly your final approach the way that most people are taught for an entire 10 mile final : very close to your actual landing speed . In fact , you are usually landing on a runway that is 4X + the distance that you need and you can slow down fairly quickly ( especially compared to a jet ) , so if you can fly an extra 20 ( or 80 ) knots as long as possible , it will be greatly appreciated and keep traffic moving . Make sure that you leave yourself enough time to slow down at the end and above all else , be safe .
Crew members each have their own approach to this but in general on the long haul routes , as a pilot you have at least 24h layover , so you can catchup on some sleep , walk outside for a bit ( depending on the local time ) and then sleep some more so you 're fit for the next flight back home . At home you have a couple of days off to recover from the trip . On the very long flights 13h + the pilots are with at least 4 so you can do a quick nap on board as well . As a passenger I cope with the jetlag by looking at the arrival time , do I arrive in the morning I will try to sleep on the plane , will I arrive in the afternoon the I will try to stay awake and go to bed early . By doing so I wake up easily next morning and do not feel jetlagged .
I 'd recommend reviewing Chart 5-23 from the PA-44 POH - Climb performance one engine operating - gear up for specific numbers based on aircraft weight and atmospherics . If you 're not seeing a positive rate of climb at your best rate of climb , single engine airspeed , then you 're not going to see it at the best angle of climb airspeed single engine either . By definition , Vyse is the best rate of climb that you 're going to see on a single engine ; any other airspeed , including Vxse , is going to give you a lower rate of climb , or greater rate of descent if a positive rate is not possible . And attempting to acquire and hold Vxse you 're getting close to the reverse side of the power curve , combined with ever decreasing rudder authority , it would be easy to have the aircraft drop below Vmc and depart from controlled flight .
The RB211 as found on the L-1011 ( first flight Nov 16 , 1970 ) had a fuel control amplifier that , while it was not the primary control of the engine , was capable of controlling fuel flow . <URL> <URL> <URL>
The FAA says ( per 14 CFR 91.185 ) : If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins , leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received , or if none has been received , upon arrival over the clearance limit , and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended ( with ATC ) estimated time en route . This seems to answer your question unless you have a more specific one . You can descend to an IAF as you see fit and commence any approach . ATC will clear the way .
In the US , pilots of one carrier may end up flying another carrier to position themselves . This is not the preferred routing of pilots for economic reasons , but it happens . In that case there may be crew on board wearing a different carrier 's uniform . I know of no regulation prohibiting this practice .
According to the FAA in <URL> : ( b ) The applicant should validate and maintain the accuracy of the engine flight cycle over the life of the design . The extent of the validation depends on the approach taken in the development of the engine flight cycle . For example , a conservative flight cycle where all the variables are placed at the most life damaging value would require minimum validation . A flight cycle that attempts to accurately represent the actual flight profile , but is inherently less conservative , would require more extensive validation . Applicants may apply further refinements to the engine flight cycle when significant field operational data is obtained .
Rather obviously , both of these situations are far from likely to occur . As a result , the following is just idle ( but hopefully informed ! ) speculation -- I do n't recommend experiments ! I 'm going to be a little bit cheeky in answering this question -- you 've asked if it 's possible for " a fixed wing aircraft to [ ... ] get the engines up to speed and fly off . " I 'll answer " Yes , but it depends on the aircraft . " For the fixed wing aircraft I usually fly , a <URL> , getting the engines up to speed is a doddle -- it 's powered by gravity ( and essentially stays aloft by the sun ) . What matters here is the <URL> of the aircraft in question , and how quickly the pilot could recover from the ' upset ' of being kicked off the top of a tall building , and land somewhere sensible ( which can only realistically happen once the aircraft is not stalled ) . If the relative airflow over the K21 's wings is about 35 knots ( 40 mph , 65 kph ) or greater , they generate enough lift to keep it airborne ( and going about 30 m forward for every meter down ) . If we assume that you 're a free-falling body , Newton ( in the form of $ v = u + at $ ) says that it 'll take about 1.8 seconds to reach that speed , and you 'll fall ( $ v ^ 2 = u ^ 2 +2 as $ ) about 16 meters during that time . Of course , you 'll be pointing nose down at the ground , accelerating , and needing to do something about it -- which will take time , and , more importantly distance . But , in the grand scheme of sky-scrapers , mountains and cliffs , 16.2 m is n't that high . Incidentally , for this reason , bungee launching is a traditional method of getting gliders airborne in parts of the world with big hills -- a team of runners using glorified elastic bands shoot brave pilots into the blue yonder , as illustrated by the picture below ( at the Long Mynd ) . So , given that a hill is enough height for a sailplane to take off , possibly for a few hours on a good day , I 'm reasonably sure that something like the John Hancock Centre would provide more than enough time for a pilot to recover from an odd attitude , loop forward to a nose-down dive , recover smoothly from it , and fly away ( from the big building behind him ) . The gif you linked to featured what looked a lot like a small private jet . I defer to the others on this site with a lot more turbofan experience than I , but I 'll just say this : given an hour that I spent in a 777 simulator , twenty minutes were spent going from " cold and dark " to pushback , I suspect you 'd have a much harder time doing it . Of course , rapid engine starts are possible in some aircraft . It depends a lot on the exact circumstances you 're asking ( and passenger jets tend not to be designed for inverted flight , for example ) . By all accounts , this situation is n't probably going to be very recoverable . If the blades are stationary when the aircraft starts falling , they 'll be fully stalled , resulting in a low-rotor RPM stall , which , depending on the brand of helicopter may not " be recoverable " ( e.g. , even with a working engine , Robinson helicopters are generally not recoverable from a very low rotor RPM stall ) . Autorotation is the driven motion of the rotor by the air falling through it , but , as pointed out , fully-stalled blades at any angle will not generate much torque ( or lift ) , and therefore be unable to arrest the rate of descent of the falling aircraft . I presume that the only exception would be a fuselage that could provide lift through another means , such as the <URL> .
The actual fuel type limitations will be listed in at least two places : the aircraft type certification data sheet ( TCDS ) , and the limitations section of the aircraft Flight Manual , Operating Handbook , or equivalent . The fuel placards placed at the fuel filler ports might not list all approved fuels , or may state " Type X fuel only " when additional fuels may in fact be approved . These placards should be understood as a precaution against inadvertently fueling with an unintended or wrong type of fuel . In some cases ignoring these placards can have <URL> . Some aircraft do indeed have approved emergency fuels . This information would also be found in the limitations listed above . For example , the <URL> for the Beechcraft King Air B200 with PT6A series engines is lists the following for normal approved fuels : Fuel JP-4 , JP-5 ( MIL-T-5624 ) ; JP-8 ( MIL-T-83133 ) ; JET A , JET A-1 , and JET B conforming to P&amp;WC S.B. 1244 or ASTM SPEC . D1655 ; in addition for B200 and B200C Chinese No. 3 Jet Fuel . See NOTE 6 for emergency fuels Note 6 in the TCDS reads as follows : NOTE 6 . Emergency use of MIL-G-5572 : Grades 80/87 , 91/98 , 100/130 , and 115/145 are permitted for a total time period not to exceed 150 hours time between engine overhauls . It is not necessary to purge the unused fuel from the system when switching fuel types . Likewise , the <URL> for the King Air B200 lists the same limitations . The Flight Manual for the King Air B200 also lists these limitations , as applicable , as well as some additional altitude constraints when using emergency fuels due to electric boost pump requirements . In contrast to the actual fuel limitations , the placard placed at the fuel port for the King Air B200 lists very little of the actual limitations : <URL> Source : Beechcraft King Air 200 <URL>
It can happen very quickly . I do n't have exact numbers , but an acquaintance had this happen in a Cessna 172 and the entire tank was emptied in just a few minutes - the amount of time it took to do one circuit of the pattern and land . The fuel cap was not in the filler neck on departure , and was hanging from the chain , banging against the wing . The moral of that story is : never assume the fuelers put the cap back in . I 've personally flown an older Cherokee 160 that had a loose fuel tank gasket . When doing slow flight , the pressure above the wing was so strong that it would start to ooze fuel from the cap . Fuel would flow in a rather frightening amount back along the wing , and that 's with the cap still on .
In layman 's terms , at least on a Gulfstream G450/G550 , the cross-feed system allows the engines to be fed from either the left tank , the right tank , or both tanks ( one to each engine . ) the cross-feed pipes feed into the fuel hoppers , not directly into the other tank . While you can use the cross-feed system to fix a fuel imbalance , doing so would be via using the fuel ( in the engines ) not actually transferring it from tank to tank . The intertank system is a valve and pipe system between the tanks themselves , allowing a fuel imbalance to be fixed by initiating/allowing the transfer of fuel from tank to tank directly . My sources were : <URL> <URL>
<URL> is the force or wind generated behind a jet engine , particularly on or before takeoff when high/full power is set , but also when the aircraft is taxiing . When an object moves through air ( or some other medium , e.g. a spoon through nutella ) , air is disturbed . This disturbance or <URL> is known as <URL> . It can also be called <URL> . The difference is that jet blast is only because of engines . Jet wash or prop wash or wake turbulence is because the airplane moves through air . If Mr Kevin Fast runs at say 100 mph doing this ( see picture below ) , you can notice significant wake turbulence , although the engines are off and there is no jet blast .
end question
start question
Is the stall speed different at -1 G ?
Only in aerobatic aircraft is the inverted stall speed identical to the upright stall speed in level flight . Airplanes registered in the Normal and Utility classes have cambered airfoils which have a higher positive maximum lift coefficient . In inverted flight , their stall speed is higher than their upright stall speed . The same goes for gliders and airliners . When I had my last aborted winch launch in a ASK-13 , I involuntarily checked how well the cockpit had been cleaned last time . I had to briefly close my eyes to avoid getting sand and dust into them . I can confirm that it is fully possible to fly a negative maneuver in upright position , albeit only briefly . However , the negative acceleration had as much to do with the rate of rotation and my position ahead of the cg as with negative lift . If I had pushed a lot more , I could had stalled the wing by undershooting the negative lift minimum . But this would had just limited the downward acceleration , and the negative lift would not had been sufficient for inverted flight , because the inverted stall speed in level inverted flight was most likely higher than the speed at the time of the tow line rupture . The negative stall speed is just your flight speed , and the possible negative gs grow with the square of speed . Stall is a matter of angle of attack , not of speed . A negative stall in upright attitude is rather uneventful - the aircraft will be at a high rate of rotation and will just hit the limit of downward acceleration .
I can only speak for the Boeing B787 , but the 787 Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) indicates that there are slight differences between different engine options . Three examples : autostart modes ( different failures can be automatically detected and corrected for during engine autostart ) , warm-up times before take-off and cool-down times after landing , take-off thrust setting ( " GE engines : Advance the thrust levers to approximately 40 % N1 " vs " RR engines : Advance the thrust levers to approximately 20 TPR " - this also indicates that the primary engine indications are slightly different : N1 and EGT vs. TPR , N1 and EGT ) . I do n't know though how much these slight differences translate to different procedures , as I am not a pilot .
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
They are designed to not stall at the tips first . Such a stall behavior would be highly problematic because it causes a pitch-up moment which exacerbates the stall . See the <URL> how nasty stalls with swept wings can become . <URL> describes the required stall characteristics : ( a ) It must be possible to produce and to correct roll and yaw by unreversed use of the aileron and rudder controls , up to the time the airplane is stalled . No abnormal nose-up pitching may occur . The longitudinal control force must be positive up to and throughout the stall . In addition , it must be possible to promptly prevent stalling and to recover from a stall by normal use of the controls . Such a behavior is easiest to achieve when separation does not start at the wing tip . <URL> sometimes had trouble to achieve docile stall characteristics which led to the introduction of stick shakers . Today , changing the airfoil shape over span ( aerodynamic washout ) and wing twist ( geometric washout ) are combined to ensure that stall starts at the wing root . Regarding washout : With high-lift devices employed , the <URL> of the ailerons on the outer wing results in a strong effective washout . Here it is important to extend the slats over the outer wing to enable it to function well above the local angle of attack . The picture of an A300-600 below should illustrate the point . <URL> A300-600 in landing configuration ( picture <URL> ) But even in clean configuration some washout remains and allows the outer wing to fly at a lower lift coefficient which ensures a decent stall margin . A photo of an airliner wing on the ground might be misleading : The lift forces in flight will twist the swept-back wing such that washout is increased .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
Yes , it is , at least for small pitch angles and low thrust . Here is how : $ $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ If thrust or pitch attitude become significant , you need to modify $ m \ cdot g $ by the vertical thrust component . Then the answer must be no , because the thrust information is missing : $ $ L = \ left ( m \ cdot g - T \ cdot \ sin ( \ Theta + \ sigma ) \ right ) \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ $ L \ :\ :\ : $ lift $ m \ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ n_z \ :\ : $ load factor ( = 1 in horizontal , unaccelerated flight ) $ \ gamma \ :\ :\ : $ flight path angle , with $ \ gamma = asin \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) $ $ v_z \ :\ : $ vertical speed $ v \ :\ :\ : $ flight speed ( TAS ) $ T \ :\ : $ Thrust $ \ Theta \ :\ : $ pitch angle ( up is positive ) $ \ sigma \ :\ : $ thrust angle relative to airframe 's x axis Note that the altitude is only needed if you use the <URL> . Using the standard value will give you a negligible error . Please note also that lift > weight will result in an upward acceleration . In a quasi-stationary climb or sink the <URL> .
Before we get started , I should mention that the most basic constant-speed propellers were driven by balancing air pressure and centrifugal force . The blades were shaped in such a way , or equipped with a counterweight that would cause the blade to intrinsically move to a shallow pitch . However , when air was moved over the blade , it would begin to overpower the counterweight and push the blade to a higher pitch . It 's a pretty ingenious design that meant that the prop would automatically be at a high RPM when the plane was moving slowly ( takeoff , landing , climbs ) , and would automatically move to a higher pitch when the plane sped up for cruise . There is even a single-bladed propeller that utilized this design very efficiently for light aircraft . The problem is that this type of propeller is not pilot-adjustable , and I am assuming you are wondering about adjustable props , so that 's what we 'll talk about from here on . In the first picture , observe that the pilot valve is resting directly on the flyweights ( separated by a bearing ) . The second picture better depicts the valve system . So we see that the speeder spring is pushing down on the top of the pilot valve 's shaft , which is in turn resting on the flyweights . First off , the flyweights are turned by the crankshaft , so any change in engine RPM is immediately reacted to . There are a few ways that the propeller is attached to the piston , and a rack and pinon type gear system is common and easy to imagine . The rack is fixed to the piston so that when it moves , the prop blade 's pinion gear is rotated and thus the blade is rotated . Another common type uses a peg that is offset from the center of the blade 's circular base . When the piston moves , it pushes or pulls on the peg and because the peg is offset it causes the blade to twist . Overspeed : When your airspeed increases . When the RPMs increase , the centrifugal force causes the flyweights to want to spread apart in order to conserve momentum . Because they 're in an L shape and have a hinge in the corner , this causes the lower part to rise up , pulling the pilot valve up and compressing the speeder spring . When the pilot valve is raised , pressurized oil from the pump is allowed to flow into the prop hub through a tube that passes through the center of the hub piston . The oil fills a cavity in front of the piston , pushing it backwards . The prop blade is rotated to a higher pitch ( closer to feather ) which slows the engine RPM . When the RPM is reduced , the flyweights will be under less centrifugal force , and the speeder spring will push them back to equilibrium ( on-speed ) , pushing the pilot valve back down to block the hub oil tube from gaining or losing oil . Underspeed : When your airspeed decreases . When the RPMs decrease , there is less centrifugal force acting on the flyweights . Due to their shape as described earlier , they are no longer able to push up on the speeder spring with the same force as before , so the compressed spring will begin to expand . This brings the top of the flyweights in , and their bottoms down . When their bottoms move down , the pilot valve moves down as well and unblocks the hub oil tube . Positive oil pressure in the hub and the blades ' built-in tendency to want to move to a low pitch pushes the oil out of the hub and back into the oil system . The piston moves forward and the blades rotate to a low-pitch condition . The flyweights do not necessarily return to equilibrium , especially if you manually set the spring to maximum compression with the prop lever : you want the prop to stay at minimum pitch no matter what . Loss of oil pressure : Oil pressure is constantly pushing against the bottom of the pilot valve , trying to force it upwards . The speeder spring is resisting , and while the flyweights are on-speed , the whole system is in equilibrium with the valve blocking the hub tube . When you lose oil pressure , that pressure is no longer holding the valve up and the speeder spring will win , pushing the valve down and allowing the oil to flow out of the hub . This resets the prop to the low-pitch climb setting , giving us maximum power because that 's more useful than maximum speed in the emergency situation that is probably about to occur . So why do we do this ? All propellers are set at a pitch . Theoretically , a propeller is pitched to move forward a certain distance each revolution , just like a screw moving through wood . But unlike wood , air is fluid and difficult to grip . If you imagine screwing a screw into a board , the only way to make it go in faster is to turn it faster . This is because the screw 's pitch is fixed . If you could space out the rungs on the screw ( increase the pitch ) the screw would move through the wood faster but it would become much harder to turn . An airplane 's propeller works much the same way . When we first take off , we need to impart maximum power into the air and it does n't matter if we do n't move forward very far for each revolution , because we 're not going very
Stall warning systems generally function on the principle of measuring pressure distribution or angle of attack . As each aircraft will have a different type of stall warning system , the necessary test will vary by aircraft as well . Here , I will answer based on aircraft that I have experience with , but these concepts should cover the majority of light aircraft . Aural stall warning systems can generally be divided into two types , pneumatic and electric . Pneumatic Pneumatic stall warning systems are found in many light Cessna aircraft , including the 172 and 177 . The following system description is from the Cessna 177 Maintenance Manual : The system is composed of an adjustable plate on the left wing leading edge , connected to a reed type horn by means of plastic tubing . The horn is actuated approximately 5 to 10 miles per hour above stalling speed as a negative air pressure area at wing leading edge causes a reverse flow of air through horn . See this excerpt from Figure 15-6 in the C177 Maintenance Manual depicting the pneumatic stall warning system and it 's location in the aircraft : <URL> To test this type of system , air must be drawn out of the system through the leading edge scoop located in the left wing . The maintenance manual and <URL> call for a test procedure as follows : Prior to flight , test the pneumatic stall warning system and determine if it is functioning properly , [ ... ] by covering the opening in the left wing with a clean cloth , such as a handkerchief , and applying a slight suction by mouth to draw air through the horn . A properly functioning horn will provide a sound that is clearly audible . The sound is something like that from a kazoo . In actual practice , speaking personally and from my observations , the " clean cloth " is typically dispensed with . Alternately , a <URL> is available for a small price if you would rather not have to put your mouth on a strange airplane . Failure of these systems will typically be due to a problem either with the horn -- such as a loose reed , or with the leading edge scoop -- such as a cracked or misaligned scoop . Electric Electric systems operate on some of the same principles , but use a movable tab -- instead of pneumatic suction -- to sense the change pressure distribution . This type of system is found on aircraft such as the Cessna 182 , Piper Cherokee , and Beechcraft King Air . The system operation can be generalized as follows : pressure changes cause the tab to move up thereby sending an electrical signal which will sound a horn in the cockpit . In some cases the tab actuates a microswitch . In more complex systems the tab actuates a transducer which signals a stall warning computer . The simpler of these types of systems can typically be tested with aircraft electrical power on by manually lifting the tab and listening for the warning horn . With the more complex King Air system , testing is accomplished with a switch in the cockpit which tests the circuitry and horn . In this system , signals from the stall warning transducer are blocked out by a weight on wheels switch when on the ground , with the effect that lifting the tab will not allow for system testing . Flight Safety ( FSI ) offers the following system description in their King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual : The stall warning system senses angle of attack through a lift transducer actuated by a vane mounted on the leading edge of the left wing ( Figure 15-10 ) . Angle of attack from the lift transducer and flap position signals are processed by the lift computer to sound the stall warning horn mounted on the copilot 's side of the cockpit . The horn sounds when the following conditions are present : Airspeed is 5 to 13 knots above stall , flaps are fully retracted . Airspeed is 5 to 12 knots above stall , flaps are in the APPROACH ( 40 % ) position . Airspeed is 8 to 14 knots above stall , flaps are fully extended . The system can be tested prior to flight by placing the STALL WARN TEST switch , located on the copilot 's left subpanel , in the TEST position . This simulates a stall condition and sounds the warning horn . <URL> Figure 15-10 from the FSI King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual Other Systems Other types of systems exist with which I have no actual experience , either as a pilot or mechanic . I offer the following information without much real knowledge of it , but hopefully with good sources . Others more knowledgeable than I might be able to verify it . The Boeing 737 has a stick shaker type stall warning system to provide the required warning , rather than an aural warning system . The SmartCockpit.com <URL> document gives the following system description : Stall Warning System The stall warning " stick shaker " consists of two eccentric weight motors , one on each control column . They are designed to alert the pilots before a stall develops . The warning is given by vibrating both control columns . The system is armed in flig
It depends on the autopilot and you need to read the AFM to know what the limitations are . All of the business jets that I have flown prohibit the use of the autopilot below a specific altitude ( between 50 and 1,000 feet depending on the autopilot and the configuration of the airplane ) . Nothing prevents then from being used lower but it is n't allowed . They will engage on the ground ( in fact it is part of the required preflight tests ) but have a specific prohibition against use for takeoff and landing . Other airplanes and autopilots however are approved for autoland all of the way down to a full stop , and some for takeoff as well . Speeds also depend on the autopilot . Some automatically disconnect if the aircraft receives a stall warning or overspeed signal but others do n't .
For GA aircraft with straight , rectangular wings , the stall usually starts at the root and progresses towards the tip . So , at some point , only a portion of the wing will be stalled . This is sometimes referred to as partial stall , though it is not a common term . <URL> Image from boldmethod.com This is usually achieved by having a washout or a wing cuff . In case of root-first stall , the wing tips are still producing lift , helping to prevent rolling motion ( which may occur if the whole wings stalls at once ) , which in turn prevents the aircraft from entering a spin .
Are you talking the approach-to-land , or actual landing ? Keep in mind , when you flare , you are technically arresting a descent , so the VSI should not read much more/less than zero . For a stable approach , 500-700 FPM on a 3 degree glide slope usually works out well for ILS approaches . Keep in mind , all instrument approaches terminate visually , unless you are in a CAT III capable aircraft , which I do not fly .
FL250 for a Boeing 737 in cruise at 850 kph/460 knots GS is an unlikely value . Aircraft in the same category of speed , such as the Boeing 737/747/767 / 777 usually fly at higher altitudes , e.g. FL300-FL400 . Slower turboprop aircraft such as the ATR72 usually fly in the ranges of FL200-FL250 . During cruise , airspeed will be matched by ATC for all aircraft where the trailing aircraft might catch up to the preceding aircraft . ATC sees the ground speed on their radar screens and can thus compare and evaluate if they need to assign speeds to maintain separation . <URL> ( Image Source : <URL> - Speed : 395 knots GS ) The same principle applies to aircraft in the terminal area , the lower you get , the more will aircraft have the same groundspeed when assigning the same indicated airspeed , as air density and wind approach the same values . ATC will sometimes assign a slower speed to trailing aircraft if they need to achieve the same groundspeed at different altitudes . For aircraft that still have significantly different groundspeeds on the same airway , ATC can also vector aircraft around the preceding aircraft and put it back in front or they can issue a direct that will achieve the same effect , changing the sequence of the aircraft . A climb or descend can be coordinated with the pilots , e.g. the trailing aircraft can be asked if they are able to accept a climb to another flight level , maybe even temporarily .
The factor affecting TSFC is speed , not altitude . Altitude is indirectly responsible because the lower density requires a higher flight speed . Low-bypass engines have a higher exit speed , so the change in speed affects their efficiency less . High-bypass engines double their TSFC between static and Mach 0.8 and only the lower temperature at altitude <URL> a bit . If you look at the formula for thermal efficiency in <URL> , you see that efficiency drops more over speed for high-bypass engines . Only the much better propulsive efficiency of high-bypass engines makes them overall better for airliners .
The specific reasons may be specific to each propeller/engine combination , but in general it seems to be related to stresses . According to this <URL> on page 2-2 : Stabilized ground operation between 400 and 1,150 propeller RPM is prohibited . Operation between 0 and 400 propeller RPM is permissible only with propeller feathered . STABILIZED GROUND OPERATION WITHIN THE PROPELLER RESTRICTED RPM RANGE CAN GENERATE HIGH PROPELLER STRESSES AND RESULT IN PROPELLER FAILURE AND LOSS OF CONTROL OF THE AIRCRAFT . This is probably due to the frequency of the aerodynamic forces at those RPM 's resonating with the frequency of the propeller , and getting amplified to unsafe stress levels . This is called ground resonance and is also an issue with helicopters . In addition to over-stressing the propeller blades , it can also affect the fatigue life . There is also a discussion in <URL> , and it is mentioned in <URL> . As voretaq7 mentions , fixed-pitch propellers have similar restrictions for similar reasons . Some engines include a damper that removes this restriction by damping out the resonance .
Most modern jets use an Air Data Computer ( ADC ) to calculate ( among other things ) Mach Number . <URL> Air Data Computer An ADC is simply a computer which accepts measurements of atmospheric data to calculate various flight related data . A typical ADC may be connected to $ ^ 1 $ : Inputs Static System Pressure Pitot Pressure Total Air Temperature ( TAT ) Outputs ( Calculated ) Pressure Altitude Baro-Corrected Altitude Vertical Speed Mach Number Total Air Temperature Calibrated Airspeed True Airspeed Digitized Pressure Altitude ( Gillham ) Altitude Hold Airspeed Hold Mach Hold Flight Control Gain Scheduling . Each of the inputs and outputs may be analog or digital depending on the design of the system , and are used for many purposes throughout the airplane . Each output is a purely calculated value based on the various input measurements and data stored within the unit . To answer your question about the pitot source for the Mach Meter : Yes , they use the same pitot and static sources as the airspeed indicator . In the case of mechanical instruments , they are both connected directly to the pitot static system . In the case of an ADC , the pitot static system is connected directly to the ADC and then electrical signals communicate the airspeed and mach number to the electric airspeed indicator and mach meter ( or EFIS ) , which no longer require actual pitot static connections . The Math A simplified example for the Mach Number calculation $ ^ 2 $ would be based on the pressure inputs : $ $ Mach ~ number = 5 ( ( PT/PS +1 ) ^ { 0.2857 } -- 1 ) ^ \ frac12 $ $ Where : $ PT$ = Total Pressure $ PS$ = Static Pressure The actual calculation makes corrections to the pressure data to compensate for installation errors and nonlinear sensor readings . Note that it does n't actually calculate the ( local ) speed of sound ( LSS ) in order to determine the current mach number , but with the TAT input and the calculated mach number , it could calculate it by calculating the outside air temperature ( OAT/SAT ) first : $ $ SAT = \ frac { TAT } { 1 +0.2 \ times { Mach } ^ 2 } $ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { SAT } $ $ For example , let 's say that the TAT is -36 C ( 237.16 K ) and we are flying Mach 0.80 : $ $ SAT = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1 +0.2 \ times0 .8 ^ 2 } = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1.128 } = 210.25 ° K = -63 ° C$ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { 210.25 } = 38.945 \ times14 .5 = 564.70 knots $ $ Again , these are simplified formulas because the actual ones would consider sensor error , etc. . $ ^ 1 $ List of inputs and outputs obtained from <URL> . $ ^ 2 $ Formula from <URL> .
Stalls occur based on a wing 's angle of attack rather than the aircraft 's airspeed . ( In fact , one of the basic facts that all pilots learn in their initial training is that an airplane can stall at any airspeed ) . The A330 measures angle of attack using vanes mounted on the fuselage : However , below 60 knots , these vanes <URL> . During the AF447 accident , the stall warning only engaged intermittently because the computers detected that the airspeed readings from the blocked pitot tubes were invalid , and therefore silenced the stall warning system . Furthermore , because of the lack of valid airspeed data , AF447 was no longer in <URL> ( and therefore had no automated angle-of-attack protection ) , a fact which the pilots may not have been aware of . By the time the deicing equipment had cleared the pitot tubes , the aircraft was at such an extreme pitch that airspeed indications were still considered invalid , and the stall warning system did not activate . The computers only activated the stall warning system when the crew pitched down , which brought valid airspeed data back into the cockpit . An <URL> suggests that this may have contributed to the accident : We also note that the aircraft , or more specifically the design of the stalling warning system , misled the pilots : each time they reacted appropriately , the alarm triggered inside the cockpit , as though they were reacting wrongly . Conversely , each time the pilots pitched up the plane , the alarm shut off , preventing a proper diagnosis of the situation . ( Emphasis mine )
<URL> Hispano-Suiza has delivered the world 's first target-door reverser for a big turbofan , the A320 's CFM56 The extending petal-shaped doors type is a <URL> specialty . It 's a French company and one of the three major suppliers of reverse systems . In the 80 's Hispano-Suiza had to be innovative to capture a bigger market share . Their door type was the first ever on a high bypass engine . They believed investing in R&amp;D will help increase their sales ( it did ) . The petal reversers also double as airbrakes . <URL> Why not on the Boeing 737 ? Since the CFM56 on the 737 is close to the ground , the doors would scrape the pavement . And -- more importantly for other aircraft types -- Hispano-Suiza 's competitors are <URL> and Boeing . Boeing definitely would like to keep things in-house with their translating/cascading reversers . Nowadays with the jet engines of the smallest regional jets to the wide-bodies being as wide as the fuselages , the cascading type is the better choice . Sources : Flight , <URL> Flight , <URL>
end question
start question
What is the " optimal " age of a fighter pilot ?
It depends on what you mean by " optimal " . For a dogfight , the optimal age is probably 30 . At this age a person has lots of experience , but still maintains their full mental agility , ability to calculate and energy . In a dogfight your ability to think fast and calculate your next move is the critical factor . For combat missions , however , 40-45 may be more optimal , because experience , judgement and knowledge becomes more important . Knowing when to attack , how to attack , how to make your approach , how to do your mission setup , and many other things become the product of long experience . For complicated missions in enemy territory , it is better to have someone with long experience , rather than a young hotshot . Once a person hits about 60-65 years in age , their mental ability to calculate declines significantly . Nevertheless , experience can make up for it in some instances . For example , at age 63 <URL> was a candidate for the world chess championship , an amazing accomplishment for a person of that age . Emanuel Lasker took 3rd place at Moscow 1935 , a premier chess tournament , at the age of 66 , which was practically a miracle . These are exceptions , however . In general , once a person gets into their 60s , their mental ability deteriorates . Therefore , the age 50-55 can be considered the maximum age at which experience and judgement can be used effectively in high speed combat situations . Complex Mission Role To investigate my basic assertion that optimal age for a combat mission ( not air supremacy ) pilot is 40-45 I investigated pilot astronauts . Since astronauts are selected from large numbers of candidates and have short careers typically , it is a safe assumption that their average age is what NASA considers to be ideal . According to <URL> the mean age for all selected pilot candidates is 39.90 years old . If we assume a pilot has a 5-year career , then my guess for optimal age matches perfectly with NASA 's selection choices . This may be considered strong evidence that for a pilot executing complex missions , the optimal age range is , indeed , 40 to 45 years . Air Supremacy Role ( " dog fighting " ) To determine the optimal age for air supremacy ( " dog fighting " ) , if we had access to the USAF 's ( or other country 's ) exercise data over time , we might get an idea since we could calculate an ELO rating for each combatant and identify to the top exercise fighters of all time . Unfortunately this kind of data is not released as far as I know , probably because the armed services do like naming or identifying particular soldiers . I do strongly suspect , though , that if such a study was done it would show the " best in the world " air supremacy pilots would be clustered around the age of 30 . To check this , I tried summarizing statistics from WW2 German fighter pilots . Using birth data on 470 German aces I generated the following plot : In this chart , the bar chart is the total number of aces grouped by date of birth . The blue dots are the average number of victories for that birth year group . What this chart seems to show is that performance is remarkably consistent between the ages of 18 and 32 , with a slight advantage to the younger pilots , but then declines significantly . The 1922 group was significantly skewed by <URL> . If we eliminate him as an outlier , the top group is the class of 1920 which would have been between the ages of 19 and 25 during the war . This seems to show my original guess was wrong , and that dogfighting is dependent more on quick reflexes and fast thinking than on experience , which hands the edge to the young .
The Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance ( SCAP ) interface is a standardised model for calculating aircraft performance of air transport category aircraft . The SCAP standard is <URL> and leading aircraft manufacturers . From the IATA website : One particularly complex requirement is the calculation of takeoff performance data . Most airlines use programs supplied by the airplane manufacturers for each airplane type , and interface these programs with their own computer operating environment , airfield database , and data output format requirements . In order to reduce the development effort for the airlines ( interfacing with different airplane manufacturers ' programs ) and manufacturers ( meeting individual airline requirements for customer-specific features ) there are clear advantages in standardizing as much as possible the input/output features of these programs , and also data formats . Having recognised this potential benefit , IATA , ATA and several manufacturers set up a Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance Task Force ( SCAP TF ) . A SCAP module is a FORTRAN program that implements the SCAP standard . It takes a set of well defined inputs to produce a well defined output . The advantage of this approach is that it is possible for a third party to design a software program that requires aircraft performance data without having access to this proprietary data . The software can then be used for aircraft performance calculations of any aircraft as long as it has access its SCAP modules . There are 6 SCAP specifications for Takeoff , Landing , Climbout , Inflight , Noise and APM ( Aircraft Performance Monitoring ) . I do n't have access to the official SCAP specification , but from what I can find online I gather that for take-off performance the following is required : TODA ( Take-Off Distance Available ) TORA ( Take-Off Run Available ) ASDA ( Accelerate Stop Distance Available ) runway elevation runway surface condition runway heading wind speed and direction ambient Temperature QNH MEL/CDL items affecting performance max take-off thrust and reduced ( FLX ) option anti-icing options flap settings V1/VR ( fixed or opt ) V2/VS ( fixed or opt ) minimum acceleration altitude actual take-off weight I gather the landing SCAP module needs : LDA ( Landing Distance Available ) runway surface condition runway elevation runway heading wind speed and direction ambient temperature MEL/CDL items affecting performance approach type ( CAT I/II/III ) anti-icing options presence of residual ice flap setting ( fixed or opt ) expected landing weight
Here in the US you can get your <URL> but that is a pretty heavily limited license , your basic VFR PPL will require at least <URL> . You should note that this is flight time which is generally tracked on the hobbs meter ( positive oil pressure or master switch on depending on configuration ) . There is a lot of other time in ground school , flight planing , pre-flight checks , and waiting for weather to pass that you will undoubtedly run into . Looks like <URL> and thats day only . The <URL> . These hours are for <URL> . An instrument rating , which is not a separate license but an additional rating on the pilot certificate , will take more hours . Some countries limit night flying privileges without an instrument rating , and if you intend on doing any serious flying its a good idea to have . As mentioned by <URL> in the comments , not all licenses are valid everywhere . Some are recognized with limitations , and some can be transferred depending on what you are trying to do . Some privileges may be recognized if you are flying to an area to visit etc. . Other situations may require more training or filing different types of flight plans . Almost everyone is on ICAO format these days .
All parts of an airliner 's horizontal surface move , not just the rear part . The rear part , called an elevator , can move much faster and is for maneuvering . The forward part , called a ( trimmable ) stabilizer , is for trimming and moves slowly . It is moved in response to changes in loading , speed or flap settings and positions the tail surface such that only small continuous elevator deflections are needed . It does n't need to move fast - high load factors would upset the passengers and overload the structure . <URL> A330 port tailplane root ( picture <URL> ) . Note the markings which show the range of incidence angles covered by the trimmable stabilizer . Benefits of a stabilizer-elevator configuration : Camber : The elevator deflection changes the camber of the airfoil of the tail surface and makes the production of the intended lift change more efficient . If the elevator deflection is supposed to create a downforce , negative camber is produced and vice versa . This reduces the drag which is created in order to maneuver the aircraft . Lower control forces : By moving a smaller surface , less hydraulics power , and on small aircraft , less muscle power is needed for the same moment change than with a full-flying tail or all-moving surface . Makes sense , right ? Better tailoring of the hinge moment derivatives : Two effects are important for getting the control forces right : The change in hinge moment over deflection angle ( $ c _ { r \ eta } $ ) , and the change in hinge moment over angle of attack ( $ c _ { r \ alpha } $ ) . With tabs , the right elevator hinge position , nose shape and control horns , both can be tailored individually , while a full-flying tail or all-moving surface will give the designer less freedom to manipulate both independently . Note that full-flying tails only emerged with hydraulic controls , because only those systems can manage the control forces of all-moving control surfaces at high speed . <URL> Horn balance and overhang balance on control surfaces ( picture <URL> ) Benefits of a full-flying tail surface By avoiding a contour break due to a flap deflection , all-moving control surfaces can avoid the shocks which would otherwise occur at high subsonic speed . This is their main benefit for combat aircraft . At supersonic speed , the uncambered surface will produce less drag , so for supersonic speed the all-moving control surface is more efficient . By moving all of the tail surface at high speed , an all-moving control surface will produce the highest rate of moment change over time possible . To produce also the highest sustained moment change , however , it needs to be larger than a comparable stabilizer-elevator combination because it forfeits the benefits of variable camber . The all-moving control surface has no gaps which could add radar reflections , allowing for a more stealthy design . Lower mechanical complexity . This is somewhat offset by the need for much beefier hydraulics .
Cabins of fighter jets are in fact pressurized , but not same as the passenger airplanes . Cabin pressure in a passenger airplane will increase ( almost in a linear fashion ) as the airplane climbs . However , fighters keep ambient air pressure to a certain altitude . It maintains this pressure until a certain pressure differential is met , and then cabin altitude increases to maintain this differential . Therefore at higher altitudes , cabin pressure in a fighter jet is low enough that supplemental oxygen is required for the pilot ( s ) . This is supplied via <URL> . By not pressurizing the cabin completely reduces stress on air frame and is beneficial during an unplanned decompression . By the way , your friend ( military fighter pilot ) is correct .
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
There are only a hand full of single pilot jets in production currently and the SJ30x seems to have the longest range by far . The other competitors in the space , the <URL> , The <URL> and the <URL> come in roughly in the 1300-1500 mile mark which is far less than the SJ30x . Depending on how far you are willing to stretch the planes you include many military fighters , <URL> ( which are generally single pilot planes ) have a range that competes with or exceeds the SJ30x . There is another caveat to this as well . All of these planes can in theory be fitted with ferry tanks which can greatly extend their range for a single mission . Its generally impractical to do this on a constant basis but it can be done in one off scenarios .
If a pilot is not rested enough to safely operate the aircraft , they should not fly . If a pilot is flying and falling asleep , they should switch out with another pilot or land . Current FAA regulations for domestic flights generally limit pilots to eight hours of flight time during a 24-hour period . For the Air Force , actual flight duty periods vary depending on the aircraft type and mission but we are required to get 12 hours of crew rest with the opportunity for 8 hours of uninterrupted rest prior to flying . You can read the FAA 's Fact Sheet on Pilot Flight Time , Rest , and Fatigue <URL> .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
The most common case to pitch down is to speed up , not to reduce altitude , for example when transitioning from a climb ( at climb speed ) to level flight ( accelerating to cruise speed ) . You can transition to level flight by reducing thrust , but that 'll leave you level at climb speed , and is usually not what you want . Changing configuration will usually require pitching changes to maintain stable flight . In particular during the approach-to-landing , extending the flaps will substantially increase the drag , and in order to maintain airspeed , you 'll need to pitch the nose down . If you do n't , you 'll bleed off airspeed and potentially eventually stall unless you overpower the drag with thrust . There are of course unusual circumstances that will require a pitch-down as well , obstacle avoidance for example ( e.g. airplanes ) . As mentioned in the comments , to make a speedy descent you 'll probably also want to pitch down ( such as in case of pressurization problems or fire on board ) .
FAA considers space shuttle either a military aircraft or spacecraft and hence its rules do n't apply on space shuttle . However , requirements to be a <URL> : ... at least 1,000 hours pilot-in-command time on jet aircraft It means that you need type rating to operate a heavy jet aircraft ( not light jet ) . <URL> is 172,000 lb ( 78,000 kg ) 1 . In addition , you need the additional requirements mentioned by NASA ( link above ) , which include education and health standards to meet . Operating empty weight of <URL> is 610,000 lbs .
It 's the elevator trim control to relieve control forces in pitch . It does this by changing the neutral position of the elevators so that the pilot flying does not need to maintain a constant pressure on the yoke to maintain pitch . On the 747 family , this is achieved by moving the stabiliser . Although <URL> shows a home cockpit yoke , the representation of the controls is accurate :
The <URL> has a relatively comprehensive list on how they derive at the " generation " of the fighter . For example , here is how the Air Force classifies them : 1 : Jet propulsion : F-80 , Me 262 2 : Swept wings ; range radar ; infrared missiles : F-86 , MiG-15 3 : Supersonic , pulse radar , Beyond-visual-range missiles : Century Series , F-105 , F-4 , MiG-17 , MiG-21 4 : Pulse-doppler radar ; high maneuverability ; look-down/shoot-down missiles : F-15 , F-16 , Mirage 2000 , MiG-29 . 4 + : High agility ; sensor fusion ; reduced radar signature : Eurofighter Typhoon , Su-30 , F/A -18 E/F , Rafale 4 + + : Active electronically scanned arrays ; continued reduced signatures or " active " ( waveform canceling ) stealth technology , supercruise : Su-35 , F-15SE 5 : All-aspect stealth with internal weapons bays , extreme agility , full-sensor fusion , integrated avionics , some or full supercruise : F-22 , F-35 , 6 : extreme stealth , morphing capability , smart skins , highly networked , extremely sensitive sensors , optionally manned , directed energy weapons . Until we have a major leap in technology , it would seem we are capped off at 5th generation fighters for the moment .
DO-178 / ED-12C Any software that executes on installed hardware in a type certified aircraft will need go to through DO-178C ( or a similar process ) . The amount of effort involved depends on the safety criticality of the software functions . Since this sounds like a new system without predefined System Requirements ( such as those you would get from an OEM as part of the SAE ARP 4754A processes ) , those will need to be defined by your development process and then your Software ( High Level ) Requirements trace from those . Here in the US , smaller companies will typically contact and work with the local ACO ( Aircraft Certification Office ) during the product planning stages to identify the product as following the DO-178C processes . Larger companies , especially OEMs , tend to work with DERs ( Designated Engineering Representatives ) rather than directly with the ACO , as they may have dozens of different DO-178 projects going at one time . EASA Software Certification Guidance on the EASA Software Aspects of Certification can be found in EASA CM - SWCEH - 002 <URL> From that document , Panel 10 seems to be the part of EASA that you would work with , although I have n't found how a new applicant would go about contacting them yet . The EASA panel in charge of software and AEH aspects of certification . This panel includes at least one software and AEH expert ( who is the coordinator ) and , depending on the size of the project , may include additional software and AEH experts . There is also a FAQ page for the application processes with EASA : <URL>
I do n't know for certain as I 'm not military , but I imagine that they pressurize the fuel tanks using bleed air , much like jet airliners do . It 's also likely that they make use of boost and ejector pumps to provide positive pressure directly to more centrally-located tanks which the engines then feed from . ( from <URL> [ pdf ] ) The F-15 has both wing &amp; fuselage tanks ; <URL> : The left and right engine feed tanks contain baffles in order to provide a limited amount of fuel to the boost pumps during inverted flight or during negative G maneuvers Left wing tank Auxiliary tank Left engine feed tank Right wing tank Right engine feed tank Tank 1 ( main tank ) <URL> that limit the speed at which fuel can flow from one end to another , usually to prevent fuel sloshing and screwing up balance .
It is a pitot intake , and the round shape makes the intake tube lighter . It is a pressure vessel , after all , because the intake converts flow speed into pressure and slows the flow of air to the engines down to approximately half of the speed of sound . Placing the intake squarely at the side would make them less efficient ( a classic example for this would be the <URL> ) . The bulging fuselage above effects a pre-compression of the flow at supersonic speed , especially at higher angle of attack when thrust is needed most . To put them together under the fuselage ( <URL> style ) would cause interference in single-engine mode and would require a higher landing gear . The chosen shape is the best compromise for a lightweight and efficient intake for a two-engined aircraft .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
The combat advantage of fighters ( as opposed to heavier-payload bombers ) is their maneuverability , therefore a missile delivery restriction such as g-limit ( think Sidewinder heat-seeker in a dogfight ) or attitude would unnecessarily restrict their efficacy . As a Vietnam-era fighter and attack pilot I fired both unguided ( aim and shoot rockets ) and guided ( target lock-on and shoot ) missiles , and neither had associated attitude limits . Missiles that fall clear of the weapon station before rocket-motor ignition ( such as the TV-guided Walleye or the optically-pilot-guided Bullpup ) are obviously restricted from negative g to ensure safe separation from the airplane , i.e. , negative g release from an under-wing weapon station would all but guarantee impact with the airplane .
You can change your address with the FAA online . You do not need to get a new plastic certificate . <URL>
It is a company specific rule found in the Flight Operations Manual so is airline specific . There is usually a statement that goes along with it which also says to avoid foods with a higher than typical rate of food poisoning , such as raw fish before and during the Flight . In the US , the FOM is submitted to , and accepted by the FAA so the procedures become required .
end question
start question
What is " judgemental oversteering " in taxi procedures ?
" Judgmental oversteering " means to intentionally not follow the taxiway centerline when turning . It is a technique used on large aircraft to turn on tighter or smaller taxiways . In a sense , it is like driving a long vehicle , such as a truck or a bus . Instead of following the lines on the road , the driver would deliberately overshoot the entry of turn , i.e. delay turning the steering wheel . This technique allows the rear wheels to stay on the road instead of going over the corner which may have fences , poles , pedestrians or other obstructions . Here is a drawing from the 747x <URL> document which illustrates the tracks of each gear for the " judgmental oversteering " and " cockpit centerline " methods : <URL> <URL> summarizes the pros and cons for each method ( p. 52 of PDF , p. 34 of document ) : Cockpit Over Centerline . Taxiway intersections designed to accommodate cockpit over centerline steering require more pavement , but enable more rapid movement of traffic with minimal risk of aircraft excursions from the pavement surface . ( ... ) Judgmental Oversteering . Taxiway intersections designed to accommodate the judgmental oversteering method of maneuvering require the least pavement widening . However , judgmental oversteering requires complex maneuvering , increases the risk of aircraft excursions from the pavement surface , and slows the flow of traffic .
In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller ( PLC ) . As opposed to the executive controller ( EC ) , who talks to the planes , the PLC ( who will be seated right next to the EC ) handles coordination with adjacent sectors via dedicated telephone lines . There are two main parts of a transfer : the transfer of communication and the transfer of control . The transfer of communication is the actual frequency switch -- the instruction for the pilot to switch from one frequency to another . The transfer of control is the transfer of responsibility of the flight from one controller to the next . Before answering your question directly , let us establish the premises of the question . Note : this answer refers primarily to European procedures , and is largely based on <URL> In respect to your question , the transfer of control is the interesting part . Firstly , we must realise that there are two fundamentally different premises for a transfer of control . Either the transfer takes place from one position/sector to another position/sector within the same ATC unit ( for example between two area control sectors in the same area control centre ) , or the transfer takes place from one ATC unit to another ( for example when a flight crosses a state border ) . In the first case , the adjacent sector will typically already have access to information about the flight , since both sectors rely directly on the same data source . In the second case , this might not be the case . Additionally , in the first case , controllers will often be physically seated right next to each other . For units where paper flight progress strips are still used ( mainly some approach and tower units ) , this enables controllers to physically pass the flight progress strip to the next controller . In both cases , there are four required stages which lead up to a transfer of control ( refer to ICAO document 4444 , section 10.1 ) : a ) Notification of the flight in order to prepare for coordination , as necessary ; b ) Coordination of conditions of transfer of control by the transferring ATC unit ; c ) Coordination , if necessary , and acceptance of conditions of transfer of control by the accepting ATC unit ; and d ) The transfer of control to the accepting ATC unit or control sector . Doc 4444 also states that : ATC units shall forward from unit to unit , as the flight progresses , necessary flight plan and control information . Now , your question is , to what extend is this data transfer process automated . ICAO document 7030 gives us a clue to the background of the answer : When so agreed between adjacent ATC units , a computer-assisted coordination process shall be introduced to eliminate the need for verbal coordination of boundary estimates and to reduce the amount of manual data input into ATC computers . In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Silent transfer of control procedures require that traffic is predictable and sufficient system support is provided to ATCOs to ensure : - They are in possession of all elements related to the aircraft profile and - Should the agreed conditions of the transfer change , they have the means to speak to each other such that new conditions are agreed expeditiously and safely . Silent transfers are based on the exchange of flight data , which happens through connected Flight Dara Processing Systems , which make use of the OLDI protocol . The operational use of connections between Flight Data Processing Systems ( FDPSs ) at ACCs for the purpose of replacing verbal " estimates " is referred to as On-Line Data Interchange ( OLDI ) . The implementation of basic OLDI messages is mandatory in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1032/2006 . These messages are defined by the EUROCONTROL Specifications What this regulation means in practise is that , within Europe , silent transfers are used more often than not . However , you will also see units where a manual coordination prior to a transfer is required , for example flights crossing the border from certain European countries to certain non-European countries . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller
Because many copter autopilots are capable of flying a Cat I ILS to 200AGL , and then descending on autopilot into a hover at a pre-determined altitude above the runway . The pilot can then descend down to the runway surface without any forward visibility . The radar altimeter is used to judge distance to the ground . Because of the unique capabilities of helicopters and their autopilots , Cat II and Cat III are superfluous .
Excerpt from the FAA Publication " <URL> " : Standard taxi routes improve ground management at highdensity airports , namely those that have airline service . At these airports , typical taxiway traffic patterns used to move aircraft between gate and runway are laid out and coded . The ATC specialist ( ATCS ) can reduce radio communication time and eliminate taxi instruction misinterpretation by simply clearing the pilot to taxi via a specific , named route . An example of this would be Los Angeles International Airport ( KLAX ) , where North Route is used to transition to Runway 24L . [ Figure 1-7 ] These routes are issued by ground control , and if unable to comply , pilots must advise ground control on initial contact . If for any reason the pilot becomes uncertain as to the correct taxi route , a request should be made for progressive taxi instructions . These step-by-step routing directions are also issued if the controller deems it necessary due to traffic , closed taxiways , airport construction , etc. . It is the pilot 's responsibility to know if a particular airport has preplanned taxi routes , to be familiar with them , and to have the taxi descriptions in their possession . Specific information about airports that use coded taxiway routes is included in the Notice to Airmen Publication ( NTAP ) . NTAP can be found on : <URL> At the time of writing the KLAX North Route example can be found on page 4-SW-11 , and reads : North Route Taxi towards taxilane Sierra ( S ) taxi northbound on taxilane Sierra ( S ) , and at Check-point-1 contact Ground Control on frequency 121.65 , hold short of taxiway Delta ( D ) . Taxilane Sierra ( S ) is not visible from the ATCT There 's also <URL> regulating Standard Taxi Routes ( STR 's ) as bilateral agreements ( LOA 's - Letter of Agreement ) between each ATC unit and their users ( airlines ) . The document contains information on what the LOA needs to contain . Outside of the US , standard taxi instructions , if any , could be expected to be found in the AD-section ( Aerodromes ) of that respective country 's AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . As an airline pilot , this information might be integrated into your company 's nav data solution , ie . information about standard taxi routes available to you would be written/drawn out bundled with your airport diagrams etc. .
The A380 has a total waste tank capacity of or , <URL> . B. Capacity There are four waste tanks , two upper deck tanks and two main deck tanks , see FIGURE 5-4-10-991-003-A . ( 1 ) Upper Deck Waste-Tanks - 373 l ( 99 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 2 ) Main Deck Waste-Tanks - 675 l ( 178 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 3 ) Total Waste Tank Capacity - 2096 l ( 554 US gal ) . The size will vary for each aircraft type , the <URL> . Smaller General Aviation aircraft do not have lavatories , this depends on aircraft size and purpose . The average Cessna will not have lavatories either , pilots have to plan their stops properly or rely on accessory such as the TravelJohn . Larger General Aviation aircraft such as smaller jets and aircraft designed for more than 4 passengers are more likely to have lavatories on board . ( Image Source : <URL> ) There is no dumping system for waste tanks , mostly for hygienic and environmental reasons , as the waste tanks are not only filled with fecal and thus biological matter , but also with chemicals .
The pressure inside the cabin is usually more than the outside pressure at the cruise altitude . The pressure altitude ( ISA altitude with the same pressure ) inside the cabin of civil aircraft is called the equivalent effective cabin altitude or normally cabin altitude . As the aircraft climbs , the cabin altitude is gradually raised so that it reaches around 8000 ft for the aircraft cruising altitude of ~ 40000 ft. This level is maintained at flight ceiling too . <URL> Source : www.flyertalk.com The pressure is around 0.75 bar inside the cabin . The outside pressure at this point is around 0.2 bar , resulting in a pressure differential of 0.56 bar . This pressure differential causes stresses on the aircraft body . <URL> Source : ecnmag.com In addition to the stresses , pressurization - de-pressurizatoin cycle can cause fatigue in the windows . As reducing the cabin altitude will improve the passenger comfort , newer aircraft tend to have lower cabin altitudes . For example , the Boeing 787 has a pressure altitude of around 6000 ft and the Bombardier Global Express jet has a cabin altitude of around 4500 ft. This is achieved by the use of advanced composite materials , which allow a higher pressure differential have excellent fatigue properties compared to the metals . As a result , the windows of newer aircrafts are considerably larger than their predecessors . <URL> Image : Boeing
There are 2 different black boxes . The cockpit voice recorder . This holds audio from several different sources , including the microphone for each pilot , the radio and a general cockpit microphone . The flight data recorder holds at least 88 different parameters including attitude of the craft , engine performance , autopilot setting , pilot input one the controls , etc. .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
A route is how you go from place to place . A segment is a portion of your route which is characterized by a consistent course/altitude . A route may have one segment , or many . An MTR is a Military Training Route . If no portions of the route exceed 1,500 AGL , then it is given a four-digit identifier . I 'm pretty sure that the three-digit / four-digit decision was arbitrary , but I 'm ready to be educated . <URL>
The conductive exterior body Almost all aircraft have metal bodies , the electric current flows through the exterior metal . Aircraft with composite hulls can have conducting material added to the composites to provide a path for lightning . This is typically a metal mesh . Some smaller composite aircraft , lacking this sort of provision , simply can not fly near clouds or anywhere where there is a risk of lightning . photo by Boeing - see references The outer conducting surface acts as a <URL> preventing the high voltages and currents from affecting the interior . a Faraday cage photo by <URL> It is estimated that on average , each airplane in the U.S. commercial fleet is struck lightly by lightning more than once each year . Initially , the lightning will attach to an extremity such as the nose or wing tip . The airplane then flies through the lightning flash , which reattaches itself to the fuselage at other locations while the airplane is in the electric " circuit " between the cloud regions of opposite polarity . The current will travel through the conductive exterior skin and structures of the aircraft and exit off some other extremity , such as the tail . Pilots occasionally report temporary flickering of lights or short-lived interference with instruments . Every circuit and piece of equipment that is critical or essential to the safe flight and landing of an aircraft must be verified by the manufacturers to be protected against lightning in accordance with regulations set by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) or a similar authority in the country of the aircraft 's origin . From <URL> Planes are now built to absorb 250,000 amps , whereas the average strike generates 32,000 amps . " It only gets really serious when the radome [ nose cone ] is struck , the only part of the plane 's shell not made of metal , as this is where the radar is located . But nose cones have special lightning conductors for just this reason . " From <URL> The 787 flight test team gathered the unexpected data last month after one of the Dreamliner test aircaft was struck by lightning . Unlike traditional aluminum aircraft where the entire aircraft is conductive , on a composite airplane the charge from a lightning strike would find its way to the conductive parts such as wiring or hinges . In order to avoid the risk of the charge damaging these kinds of parts , Boeing had to add conductive material to the composites in order to provide a pathway for lightning strikes . From <URL> Other references <URL> <URL> <URL>
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
Seal means <URL> . Bearings are actually located in sumps ( cárter ) . This picture is taken from this <URL> . You can see the two sumps : <URL> ( <URL> ) Sumps are watertight and there are seals between the shaft and the sump , or between the shaft and the bearing to contain oil ( lubricant ) inside . This is a simple oil seal : <URL> ( <URL> ) A more complex seal looks like this one : <URL> ( <URL> ) Turbo engines oil seals are specially selected to bear the high rotation speed of the shafts ( wear ) , and the high operating temperature of the engine core ( adjustment and bending ) . Carbon seals are commonly used . See on Youtube : <URL> .
A " Safety Alert for Operators " ( SAFO 09004 ) from 2/11/09 says " Slow the aircraft to a fast walking speed on the centerline of the landing runway prior to attempting to exit the runway . Taxi at a fast walking speed until parked at the ramp or until aligned with the centerline of the runway for takeoff . " Which , of course , is n't a regulation , in this example is specifically talking about winter conditions . Source : <URL> Riverside County in Southern California has an ordinance ( regulation ) that states : Section 12.08.100 Taxi speed . No person shall taxi any aircraft on the airport unless there will be no danger of collision with any person or object . All aircraft shall be taxied at a safe and reasonable speed commensurate with safe operation in relation to existing conditions and with due regard for other aircraft , persons and property . ( Ord . 5661 § 1 , 1988 ; prior code § 5.11 ( part ) ) Source : <URL> So whatever a " safe and reasonable speed " is . I 've heard it called a " brisk walking pace . " I had an airline pilot as a ground school instructor once , and she said that ground control was giving them a hassle one day , so everyone decided to taxi at a " brisk walking pace " around LAX . Got ground whipped into shape real quick ! The FAA 's website , under " Best Practices " says to " Maintain an appropriate taxi speed . " <URL> Since it 's not clearly defined by the FAA , I assume that most airlines limit taxi speeds via their SOPs , also due to the variety of equipment , it might be unfeasible for the FAA to mandate a specific speed . Roughly : Max 30 kts : straight line with no close obstacles ( for example : back-tracking on the runway ) Max 20 kts : straight line with obstacles ( for example : on the taxiway , or close to other aircraft/stands/ground vehicles ) Max 10 kts : turns and entry onto ramp area
It very much depends on the tail-dragger . Many vintage aircraft do n't have wheel brakes at all and steer using the rudder , which has the tail wheel or skid attached to it . On these aircraft , steering is ineffective at low speeds , just like when steering a ship with a rudder . Unlike on a ship , you can increase your steerage by adding a burst of power and using the slipstream over the rudder to push it sideways . Very experienced pilots can turn almost on the spot at very low speeds this way , but in a tricky situation it 's a judgement call whether to make a wider turn at low speed or add power and risk speeding up . For this reason it 's good to have a little extra room , to make sure you can stop completely at any point and still have room to make the turn . Dan Pichelman makes a good points in the comments . If you take a tricycle and a tail-dragger with the same turning circle , and look at the tyre marks on the ground , the tail-dragger 's marks will be much bigger . That tail wheel right at the aftermost point traces out a huge circle , while the tricycle 's wheels are very close together . For this reason , you need the whole turning circle to be free from obstacles such as edge markers and lights , while a tricycle can do a full turn with its tail overhanging any obstructions . One more taxiing issue is visibility . Tail-draggers ( again , especially earlier ones ) are nose-high on the ground , and the engine cowling tends to prevent the pilot seeing straight forward . There have been many incidents of tail-draggers taxiing right onto smaller aircraft or obstructions straight ahead of them . ( It used to be very common with Spitfires . ) To avoid this , pilots are taught to weave as they taxi , so they can always check the ground ahead by looking either side of the nose . ( Think of it like the clearing turns you make on a long climb . ) While a tricycle might go straight along a taxiway it can only just fit into , a tail-dragger wants a much wider taxiway so that it can weave like this . You also need to plan how you 're going to make the weave go into a turn when you reach a corner : if you got to the corner as you 'd weaved right over to its inside , pointing towards the outside of the corner , you 'd need much more room to make the turn . For all these reasons , while it 's entirely possible for a good pilot on a good day to make turns just as tight as a similar-sized tricycle aircraft , it 's a good idea to allow a larger unobstructed space on straights and corners if you 're expecting tail-draggers , especially students .
There is no regulatory requirement for oxygen to be available for anyone on board an aircraft so long as it remains at altitudes of 12,500 ' MSL or less . And only the required minimum flight crew is required to have oxygen if they are flying above 12,500 ' up to and including 14,000 MSL ' IF they will be at those altitudes for more than 30 minutes . <URL> If they were going above 15,000 ' MSL that would be another story . So the short of it is , No , that pilot was not irresponsible , perhaps , maybe slightly inconsiderate , but not irresponsible . The reason for this is the lower density of the air is n't low enough to harm the majority of passengers . Except for extreme cases , such as those with severe and uncontrolled asthma or heavy smokers , the worst thing that would happen would be the passengers would just get sleepy and fall asleep . This is natural , and because the body does not need as much oxygen when asleep . For passengers there generally wo n't be any harm done from a mild case altitude induced hypoxic hypoxia . And YES ! You can ask someone if they will be ' OK ' at higher altitudes ! Just as it is not only ' OK ' but required to ask their weight for weight and balance calculations . ( And quite frankly I believe most people find that more intrusive . ) In fact you should take 5 minutes to tell your passengers that the flight will be in excess of , say 11,000 ' , that way they can be prepared for some unusual effects and not have to worry about them . To take it a step further , remember you are the Pilot in Command and you should be aware of your passenger 's limitations as that may trigger any self imposed safety limitations you have for the safety of the flight . Now , if you just want passengers to be comfortable and/or they absolutely insist on not taking a little nap , then it is entirely up to you if you want to carry a portable aviation oxygen canister with you for your passengers . For further information on hypoxia I would recommend the <URL> on it and the differing effects on pilots , and by extension passengers . Hope this helps !
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
Short answer : The primary Class C airport Longer Answer : Your question refers to the magenta boxes on sectional and TAC charts that read , or equivalent : <URL> These boxes are used in connection with the nearest Class C airspace on the chart . Arriving pilots are requested to contact approach within 20 NM of the primary Class C airport . This is the answer to your question , the primary airport of that Class C airspace . Which airspace and airport exactly will depend on which magenta boxes you look at on the Los Angeles TAC . In the chart examples above and below , that airport would be Bob Hope ( KBUR ) . The deeper significance behind this instruction is the procedural Outer Area of the Class C airspace which is not depicted on the charts . Though not mandatory , this outer area of the Class C airspace is still considered part of the controlled airspace , and pilots are asked to contact approach before entering this area . See section 3-2-4 of the <URL> 3-2-4 c. 2 . ( b ) NOTE - 4 . Though not requiring regulatory action , Class C airspace areas have a procedural Outer Area . Normally this area is 20 NM from the primary Class C airspace airport . Its vertical limit extends from the lower limits of radio/radar coverage up to the ceiling of the approach control 's delegated airspace , excluding the Class C airspace itself , and other airspace as appropriate . ( This outer area is not charted . ) Note that the locations of the boxes on the chart ( see image below ) roughly correspond to the various approach sectors , with the frequencies contained in the boxes varying accordingly . Also note that the blue boxes similarly correspond to Class B airspace , though the 20 NM note is absent , since Class B does not have the unmarked Procedural Area . <URL>
From Airbus <URL> : <URL> The expansion tanks above the center tank allow the center tank to be filled to the maximum . Tanks capacity is 23,858 liters . The FCOM says the fuel can expand up to 2 % without spillage in the vent/surge tanks . That 's about 239 liters per surge tank . The volumetric expansion of the fuel is about 0.095 % per ° C. 2 % allows for a 21 ° C temperature increase . The vent/surge tank communicates with the outer tank on the same side , and fuel can flow back by gravity , when conditions permit .
There is no provision in the ILS system to provide for an auto-taxi or runway vacate . IIIc is just zero-zero and roll-out control , not auto-vacate as the <URL> seems to suggest . Its a logical extension of the FAA definition , however auto-taxi is not part of the CAT IIIc definition or system requirements . The only requirement is to get the aircraft on the runway and stopped . <URL> provides for the definition of a CAT IIIc approach : c. Category IIIc . A precision instrument approach and landing with no DH and no runway visual range limitation . Right now there is no airport approved for IIIc approaches because the aircraft would just sit on the runway , it has no way of taxiing in . Until an augmentation system like GPS with WAAS or LAAS , or the " Ground-Based Augmentation System " is developed further , automatic taxi is not there . There is no provision in the existing ILS signals that allow for an aircraft to vacate the runway . GPS is as close as you can get , but that may be unreliable especially with larger aircraft like the Airbus A380 that does n't have much play on either side , so GPS accuracy will have to be augmented with something . Additionally a system will have to be in place to avoid aircraft from colliding on adjacent taxiways or to manage traffic in and around the gate . From a technical standpoint , this is a long way off , even with ground based radar systems , GBAS , and LAAS that are currently undergoing evaluation at several major airports world-wide . Also see this <URL> and <URL>
In the real aircraft that checklist item would mean bringing the thrust lever of the engine to be started up out of and to the position . This would be accomplished by physically moving the thrust lever forward slightly out of the detent . However , in the computer flight sim for which the linked checklist provides guidance , the position of the thrust levers is not simulated . Instead , thrust lever positions below idle command reverse thrust . For this reason , the checklist calls for using the computer keystroke to command fuel flow on . This keystroke combination commands in simulated piston aircraft . In the real Lear 45 , fuel flow and scheduling during start is controlled by the Digital Electronic Engine Control ( DEEC ) . For this reason , the start checklist calls for setting the appropriate thrust lever to idle prior to commanding engine spool up in preparation for the DEEC to automatically start actual fuel flow once the appropriate compressor speed is achieved . It is worth noting that after initially setting the thrust lever to -- or hitting on your computer -- the fuel flow indication should read zero . The check for appropriate positive fuel flow comes later in the start sequence . Compared to setting the thrust lever to in the Lear 45 , the analogous control command for starting most piston engines would be mixture to and for most turboprop aircraft would be fuel condition lever to or similar .
end question
start question
Could you land a large airplane on short circular runways ?
Since there are actual projects for things like this I guess it is possible at least in principle : <URL> From the site : The main feature of the circular runway is that it will become possible to let an aircraft operate always at landing and take-off with headwind . Whatever its strength and direction , the Endless Runway becomes independent of the wind . When allowing limited crosswind , airspace users can shorten the global trajectory of the flights through optimized departure and arrival routes . Apart from that they seem to hope that they can start/land more airplanes per time unit by shifting the start/landing point thus avoiding the problem that airplanes must not follow other airplanes to close along the same trajectory .
You can , but you have to live with the consequences . There are several things that can happen : Depending on the vertical gusts ahead , you might not even get close to v $ _ { NE } $ . There is another speed limit for gusty weather called <URL> , and exceeding this will run the risk of overstressing the wing structure . Going above v $ _ B$ will <URL> of more than 50 ft/s , and more than 25 ft/s when flying above v $ _ D$ . The exact values can be found in the <URL> of the flight manual . On a calm day , you can fly v $ _ { NE } $ and even a little faster , but once you fly fast enough , flutter will become very likely . Note that <URL> , so you might fly well into the flutter speed range before flutter occurs . When it does , control surfaces will be ripped from their fittings which will make the aircraft pitch up . At that point the wings will break off . The engine on a C 172 is not powerful enough to sustain level flight at v $ _ { NE } $ . You need to dive the aircraft , which requires some altitude . Maintaining the speed will mean that you dive into the ground , so you need to pull out of the dive in time . On really fast aircraft the pitch trim will get more nose-heavy when the aircraft approaches the speed of sound . You do n't run that risk in a C 172 , but faster aircraft found themselves <URL> .
This is based on knowledge and a little experience . I have flown a Wessex to a hover and they are big , heavy , powerful beasts . If your example our good friend Simon refers to me , then I must also state that I only have about 130 hours so limited hours is more accurate :) It is said that if you can fly one helicopter , then you can fly another . Indeed , I learned on the R22 and it 's a " fact " ( insofar as if enough people repeat something enough times , it becomes a " fact " ) that if you can fly the R22 , then you can fly anything because it demands careful handling and has very small power margins . I have never heard a really experienced pilot refute that . If we assume that you have enough fuel and that there is no complex fuel system which requires switching of pumps to keep the engines fed , then yes , you could land anything with one notable exception . Nearly all helicopters have a couple , either manual or automatic , between the demand for power ( how much pitch you are asking for ) and the engine power output . Raise the collective and the throttle is automatically opened and vice-versa . This is certainly true about transport category aircraft . On something like early Hilliers , I would need to learn pretty fast that as I increase pitch , I must roll on throttle otherwise , I will stall when I try to climb or raise the lever to come into the hover . This is practised during PPL but I must admit , I 've never used manual throttle control since I got my license . Another area of concern would be over controlling but that 's easy to deal with . I am now thrust into the pilots seat of a type I do n't know and I am not licensed for . I am going to land on the nearest safe spot . I 'm not going to do anything fancy whatsoever so , if I need a descent , I will lower the lever gently and use the cyclic to maintain my speed . Then I 'll climb a little by gently raising the cyclic until I start to climb . All helicopters fly nicely at about 60 kts so I will pitch for that speed . The only thing I need to look at to ensure the limits are n't busted is airspeed . Any helicopter pilot would get the feel of this in very little time as would any fixed wing pilot . It 's just a question of how heavy the controls are and how much they physically need to move but that 's quickly explored by starting gently and using just enough to do what you need to do . Let 's assume that the subject craft does have automatic throttle control . I will also assume that we are in VMC otherwise , we are all going to die . There are only two other areas of concern that I can think of and that 's the type of the landing gear ( skids vs wheels and how many ) and the height of your seat above the ground . One major difference between rotaries and fixed wing is that there is no stall speed and all helicopters can land with the same forward speed and rate of descent . I can , if I want to , bring the craft to a hover and stop to have a good think about what comes next . To come into a hover is also easy . You can do it by the numbers but the practical way is to keep your speed over the ground so that the site picture is apparently a fast walking speed and keep the landing spot in the centre of the window . if the landing spot moves up , decrease your rate of descent and vice-versa . Do this , and you will arrive close to the spot at a sensible speed and with a low rate of descent . Vortex ring state wo n't be a concern for me . I wo n't know at which speed I will lose translational lift but it will be somewhere between 10 and 15 kt , so I 'll be waiting for that little shudder to start and the nose to swing a little , ready to bring in power and pedal . I believe that most , perhaps all , wheeled transport helicopters have wheel brakes , but I will have no clue how use these . So , I am going to land zero-zero and ensure that I am directly into wind and on a level surface . The next think is how will I know when I 've landed ? When I first landed a B206 , it was on my conversion course so I already knew how to land smoothly . All I had to do to deal with the extra height I was sitting above the ground was " feel " the aircraft down . It can be surprisingly difficult to know when a helicopter is fully on the ground and not flying it all the way down is one way to get into trouble . I would deal with this by feeling for the first contact and then smoothly , but not too quickly , lowering the lever . This does two things . It ensures a firm contact and removes my biggest landing worry in an unfamiliar type which is dynamic rollover . It wo n't be pretty and I might even get a blade strike somewhere but with power now off , we 'll all walk away . So in summary , I would n't need any assistance but , if I can figure out where the transmit button is and how to tune the radio , I will try to get some anyway .
Yes , you can , you do n't need anything other than the words to be visible by the passenger . Your PPL is fine for flying experimentals , although like any other aircraft change , I would get instruction from an experienced instructor in that type/model before going solo . Experimental aircraft can have some pretty different handling characteristics . So , from a regulations standpoint , you are looking for <URL> . According to ( j ) of that : No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113 ( i ) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 6 occupants . So you can have up to 6 occupants ( including the pilot ) . Do I need something special if I wanted to buy one of these planes ? No , your PPL allows you to fly experimentals , but as I said above , please get training from an instructor familiar with the aircraft and its handling characteristics . Many dear departed pilots probably wished in the last moments that they had some formal training in the experimentals they bought . You should also get somebody to go over the aircraft mechanically that is familiar with that model . Also look into your insurance costs , the airplane may be cheaper , but your insurance will probably be more expensive .
In terms of safety , the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot made the decision to land on that runway . The corrective emphasis should be on determining why this mistake was made and taking whatever steps are necessary to prevent that mistake in the future . Especially in transport category airplanes , the crew should always calculate the required landing/rollout distance for the current landing weight , wind , atmospheric ( temperature/pressure ) and runway surface conditions , and this should be compared against the approach plate / airport diagram / A/FD . In most transport category airplanes this can all be computed by the FMS and it is standard procedure to do this on every single flight . The question of what to do after the key mistake is still valid , though . I would say it depends on when the pilot recognizes that the runway is too short . If recognized on approach , a simple go around is clearly called for and perfectly safe . Once the wheels touch the ground , the decision gets a lot more complicated . The pilot must choose whether to reject the landing or commit to it . If you recognize it as soon as you touch down , you would probably be able to apply takeoff power and get airborne again safely . Once you 've started to brake and decelerate , there will quickly come a point-of-no-return . Since you 're starting at high speed , you 're using up a lot of runway early in the landing rollout . Also note that in many airplanes it can take a significant amount of time to retract spoilers , stow thrust reversers , and spool the engines back up to takeoff thrust . You 'll be consuming a lot of runway during this time . ( At a constant 120 knots , you 'll use up 2,000 feet of runway in just 10 seconds . ) In my opinion it 's far better to commit to a landing . If I 'm going to overrun the runway , I 'd rather it happen at low speed . If you try to take off again and do n't make it , your overrun will be at much higher speed , and destructive energy in a crash is proportional to the square of your ground speed . So there 's a gray area ... you could attempt to take off again if you were dead certain you were going to make it . Otherwise , it 's most likely best to " cut your losses " and get the airplane as slow as possible when you run out of runway , in order to minimize damage &amp; injury . If you can get it down to , say , 30 or 40 knots , you 're likely to escape without any serious injuries ( the plane may take a bit of a beating , though , depending on what 's beyond the end of the runway ) . If you do it at 120 knots , all bets are off . And you did mention a specific runway with a cliff at the end ; obviously that would have to factor into the decision-making process . It may be that you simply realized your mistake too late and there is nothing you can do about it . This leads me back to the original point , which is that the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot decided to set up an approach to that runway . The best bet is to make sure that never happens . EDIT : After reading about the specific incident you referred to , it seems that the pilots simply mistook the airport itself for a different one with a longer runway . So it 's not necessarily that they failed to calculate their required landing distance ; rather they just landed at the wrong place . This is a different , but equally bad ( or worse ) mistake , discussed to some extent in the comments below .
Landing at a US military base is n't all that hard ( I 've landed at Ft. Drum before ) , you just have to get prior permission ( PPR ) ( submitted at least 30 days in advance and confirmed within 24 hours according to 32 CFR 855.8 ) , and need to have a " good reason " ( as determined by them ) . <URL> ( which is quite long ) includes the purposes that are normally allowed . You will be required to submit the following forms to the base commander ( See the A/FD ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> contains the regulations pertaining to US Air Force airfields ( and the rules are similar for each branch ) . 855.1 - Policy includes : ( 1 ) Normally , landing permits will be issued only for civil aircraft operating in support of official Government business . Other types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances . Access will be granted on an equitable basis . ... ( 3 ) Any aircraft operator with an inflight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization . An inflight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight hazardous . 855.5 - Responsibilities and authorities . includes : ( 6 ) Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields : ( i ) In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already available in the private sector . Note : Use to conduct business with or for the US Government is not considered as competition with civil airports . ( ii ) Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator . ( iii ) Solely for transient aircraft servicing . ( iv ) By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airworthiness standards . ( v ) That selectively promotes , benefits , or favors a specific commercial venture unless equitable consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances . ( vi ) For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts . ( vii ) Solely for customs-handling purposes . ( viii ) When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway is restricted from use by all aircraft .
Since there are actual projects for things like this I guess it is possible at least in principle : <URL> From the site : The main feature of the circular runway is that it will become possible to let an aircraft operate always at landing and take-off with headwind . Whatever its strength and direction , the Endless Runway becomes independent of the wind . When allowing limited crosswind , airspace users can shorten the global trajectory of the flights through optimized departure and arrival routes . Apart from that they seem to hope that they can start/land more airplanes per time unit by shifting the start/landing point thus avoiding the problem that airplanes must not follow other airplanes to close along the same trajectory .
No , Tower has final authority over which runway to use . Tower controllers have direct line-of-sight with the runway . Tower has better knowledge about equipment outages , obstacles and other special situations happening on or around the runway . Tower is the one who is granting landing clearances . They have authority to reject planes that are coming in from the wrong direction . The job of Terminal Control is to " pass " the airplane to Tower . From that point onwards , the responsibility of Terminal Control has ended ; Tower will direct the plane until it leaves Tower 's responsibility ( miss approached / on the ground ) . For example , a pilot can approach an airport with an published instrument approach , then circle to land on a different runway . The runway is located at the airport . Therefore the responsibility lies with whoever has control at the airport , not the surrounding airspace . The airspace directly at the airport belongs to Tower , not Terminal Control . Your concern of conflicting traffic is , to a certain extend , invalid , because they have been addressed by the airport designers . See , for example , the approach for VMMC : <URL> The approach begins from the South or South West . An approach from the East would have conflicted 07 approaches for VHHH . Missed approach requires a climb to at least 5,500 feet . That keeps the plane separated vertically from departing or arriving traffic at the West of VHHH . For reference , 07R approach for VHHH : <URL> You can find similar cases for airports like KLAX , KJFK and EGLL .
EDIT : please see at the bottom of the answer the update from EASA Are two people required in cockpit at all times on large commercial aircraft ? No . From <URL> : ( emphasis mine ) CAT.OP.MPA .210 Crew members at stations Flight crew members During take-off and landing each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall be at the assigned station . During all other phases of flight each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall remain at the assigned station , unless absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation or for physiological needs , provided at least one suitably qualified pilot remains at the controls of the aircraft at all times . During all phases of flight each flight crew member required to be on duty in the flight crew compartment shall remain alert . If a lack of alertness is encountered , appropriate countermeasures shall be used . If unexpected fatigue is experienced , a controlled rest procedure , organised by the commander , may be used if workload permits . Controlled rest taken in this way shall not be considered to be part of a rest period for purposes of calculating flight time limitations nor used to justify any extension of the duty period . Do any airlines enforce such a rule ? As <URL> mention , yes . EDIT : On the 27th March 2015 EASA has issued the following <URL> : operators are recommended to implement procedures requiring at least two persons authorised in accordance with CAT.GEN.MPA .135 to be in the flight crew compartment at all times , or other equivalent mitigating measures to address risks identified by the operator 's revised assessment . This still does not mean that 2 people are required , but are recommended .
Circular nozzles have these advantages : They can be swiveled in any direction , so both pitch and yaw moments can be produced . Square nozzles only allow to create pitch forces , because their panels can only be moved around one axis . When moved differently in two-engined aircraft , limited roll moments are also possible . Round nozzles are lighter . As long as exhaust gas pressure is higher than outside pressure , a square nozzle will be subject to bending loads across the width of its panels . This will make a square nozzle much heavier than a round nozzle . Actually , square thrust vectoring nozzles have just one advantage : They can be made to reflect radar waves in a few well-defined directions , while round nozzles will scatter them all around . This makes square nozzles the preferred choice for stealth aircraft , regardless of thrust vectoring . Engine nozzles of the F-22 ( picture <URL> ) . Note the serrated rear edges of the thrust vectoring panels . Engine exhausts of the B-2 . Since the B-2 uses four non-afterburing engines , fixed nozzles are used . Their location helps to protect the airplane from detection by infrared ( IR ) sensors , but makes thrust vectoring impracticable . Engine nozzles of the YF-23 ( picture <URL> ) . The lower part is longer to shield the hot exhaust against IR sensors from below . If the goal is to mostly reduce radar reflections in the forward hemisphere of the aircraft , round nozzles can be tolerated . Only when the aircraft needs to be protected from radar-guided missiles fired from behind will the square nozzles give a clear advantage . It seems that the people behind the Sukhoi PAK FA ( and other stealth fighters like the <URL> ) do not worry so much about this detail . <URL> Sukhoi T-50 ( prototype for the <URL> ) from below ( picture by <URL> ) <URL> Chengdu J-20 rear view ( picture <URL> ) However , even Lockheed-Martin and Pratt &amp; Whitney now place maneuverability and weight over stealth in their nozzle design for the <URL> engine of the <URL> strike aircraft . Note the serrated edges on all contour steps . This helps to reduce radar returns , but is much less effective than a square nozzle . The benefit is less weight and better maneuverability . <URL> F-35 with the F-135 nozzle visible ( Picture <URL> ) . Detail view below : <URL>
An airliner experiencing an engine fire might dump fuel , but not to starve the engine . That is much more easily accomplished by simply shutting down the fuel pumps to that engine , which would be a first-line firefighting technique as it 's the most economical and the most likely to allow for a restart ( less maintenance is required on an engine that 's simply shut down versus one that 's been doused with chemical suppressors , and those same chemical suppressors might extinguish the fire but would also inhibit relighting it ) . There are several redundant fuel shutoff systems in most airliners , from the fuel pumps themselves to actual shutoff valves in the fuel lines in case the pumps themselves are the failure point . Any failure that would completely prevent the crew shutting off the fuel supply to a damaged engine would likely create much more immediate problems , like severe structural damage to the wing or fuselage of the aircraft . All of these shutoffs in addition to active fire suppression systems such as chemical extinguishers are under the flight crew 's manual control ; an engine on fire is usually still producing at least some thrust , which may be more important than extinguishing the fire in certain critical phases of flight . The plane is more likely to dump fuel if it 's close to its departure airport when the emergency occurs . In such a scenario , the aircraft is likely above its maximum landing weight ( which is less than the max takeoff weight as the forces on the landing gear and the runway are less on takeoff than for landing and the plane is expected to burn most of its fuel weight by the time it gets where it 's going ) , and therefore the fuel dump is simply to reduce the aircraft 's weight for an emergency landing , so the landing gear does n't collapse on touchdown . Additionally , if anything else goes wrong during the landing , dumping fuel would leave the plane with as little fuel as possible to minimize the spread or intensity of a fire on the ground , which can impede or prevent escape from the plane . However , fuel dumps from commercial aircraft are rare , used in situations where the necessity of dumping fuel to land safely and spare the passengers outweighs the financial costs of losing the fuel and the environmental costs of cleaning up the spill .
It 's very normal for most students to struggle with the rudder initially . One aspect that got me while learning to fly : Unlike stick inputs is not ' applied pressure ' that measures the effect of the rudder , but the actual physical displacement of the pedal . It was quite usual for me to feel the need for right rudder , increase pressure on the pedal but with very little actual pedal movement , so there was practically no effect on the a/c . So I made a conscious effort when right rudder was needed to apply pressure enough To Move The Pedal . In other words if you want to double the effect of the rudder you need to double the pedal displacement , not double the pressure applied . Second thing that got me to using the rudder correctly : Make a mental note to use rudder when using the ailerons when changing power settings . Pretty soon these actions will become linked by the brain and you will do it unconsciously . Then with time you will also learn to use the correct amount . On feet stance I am pretty short at 1.70 m so I was usually selecting the closest setting for rudder which was placing the rudders very close to my knees , and as such it was difficult to properly use them ( as my body was literally resting on the pedals ) . I was once advised to push them further back and it has made a world of difference : adjust them so that maximum deflection requires just a little bit of hip effort and almost a straight knee . Try a couple of positions and see which one works best ; your instructor can help to show you the proper adjustment , and it does make a word of difference .
Could winds of up to 150 km/h impact the structural loads on the B777-200LR ? Not at all . The dynamic pressures on the plane depend on the plane 's velocity with respect to the air , not the ground speed . Flying in 150 km/h tailwind is the same as flying with no wind , the plane 's indicated and true airspeeds wo n't be affected . <URL> is the plane 's velocity inside the fast moving wind tube . Since the jet stream itself is moving , it just moves the plane with it . With the added bonus of extra ground speed , or if you 're the pilot , a dreaded return flight -- unless you can avoid the now headwind , usually they are avoided for the Pacific and Atlantic routes , not as often for elsewhere . Here 's a 1200 km/h subsonic flight : <URL>
If you are in a car , you probably do n't have the full picture . Chances are , if the accident happened " near the airport " , emergency services are probably already on the way . This is because the pilot would have been communicating with ATC , and would probably have indicated that he was in trouble before the actual accident . Even if the pilot did not have time to notify ATC , if a plane suddenly " dissapears " , search and rescus will be initiated . In any case , if will do no harm to call the normal emergency services ( dial 112 or 911 in some countries ) . Do n't overcomplicate things and try to get in touch with ATC - just dial the emergency number directly , and they will know what to do .
Atmospheric conditions do not cause aircraft to break up in flight . Improper aircraft handling in response to bad weather can cause an aircraft to be overstressed and then breakup . So can improper handling due to disorientation .
Even the largest commercial airliners are able to land without flaps , since flap failures do happen occasionally . See a report <URL> where an A380 landed with no flaps . This was at the Auckland , New Zealand airport , where the runway is 3,635 m ( 11,926 ft ) long . The pilots have checklists to follow in the event of issues with flaps , which include information about what speeds they should fly with what amounts of flaps . They simply land at a higher than normal speed . The brakes can end up getting hotter than normal , so they may have to stop and let them cool or have them inspected by emergency services . The tires are designed to deflate with <URL> before high temperatures would cause them to blow . Aircraft are also tested to make sure they can reject a takeoff at high weights ( higher than normal landing weights ) using no thrust reversers . Here is a video of the 747-8 doing this test .
What you describe does not match any banner tow rig I am familiar with , and I have towed banners . What it sounds like is a magnetometer , which might be on a survey aircraft . They can be on a boom ( stinger ) or sometimes towed . I have seen them on Cessna 182 , 210 and 208 aircraft , as tail mounted booms . Magnetometers are typically used for geophysical survey work . Towed magnetometers may be more sensitive and might be useful for detecting submarines , mines , etc. . The P-3 typically has a rear boom with a magnetometer or magnetic anomaly detector ( MAD ) .
Most of the items you can bring with you to maximize your chances of surviving an in-flight emergency are items you 're not going to be allowed to bring with you . About the only things I could recommend bringing along on a commercial flight are your cellphone and a personal locator beacon ( PLB ) of some kind , but frankly if your airliner goes down ATC is going to know where you were when they lost contact , ( and the plane has an <URL> already ) . You should also wear sensible clothing -- natural fibers like wool or cotton are the order of the day if in-flight fire is a concern . Polyester or other synthetic fabrics will melt to your skin and cause you to have a Bad Time . More directly addressing your question though , the items that spring immediately to my mind ( and why you probably wo n't be taking them with you ) are : A parachute ( what prompted your question ) Sure , you can bring your parachute . It 's kind of a useless security blanket though . From cruise flight you 'd basically be executing a high-altitude jump <URL> . You would require oxygen to remain conscious longer than about 30-45 seconds ( though an automatic-opening chute may save you here ) , as well as protective clothing to survive the low temperatures while you 're free-falling . Those concerns aside , remember that airliner cabins are pressurized and the doors are typically " plug doors " that open inward . No human is strong enough to open that door with the cabin pressurized , and if you 've lost cabin pressure for some reason you 're better off putting on that little drop-down oxygen mask like the nice flight attendant told you to in the safety briefing . You 're not going to save yourself if you pass out from hypoxia while putting on your chute and trying to get to the door . An oxygen mask / smoke hood can be useful in a fire . Most airlines are not going to let you carry an oxygen cylinder onto the plane ( as others pointed out in comments , oxygen and in-flight fires can cause more problems than it solves ) . That holds true for pretty much any kind of compressed gas because really , how do they know what 's in that tank ? A smoke hood using a filter ( or a sealed rebreather hood ) with no compressed air supply may make it past security , but ask yourself honestly : " Am I proficient enough to use an emergency escape smoke hood in an in-flight emergency ? " -- If you ca n't answer " yes " you 're probably putting yourself ( and others ) in more danger wasting time donning the hood versus just getting out of the aircraft . A life vest ( if traveling over water ) This is overkill on an airliner ( though those of us that fly little planes should seriously consider flotation devices when flying over water ) . Your airline seat cushion really CAN be used as a flotation device . Those big yellow slides also detach from the plane and make marvelous floats . Frankly if you need any of these items you 're in a situation where having your own Mae West is n't going to really enhance your chances of survival . A utility knife capable of cutting your seatbelt This is incredibly useful for a bunch of reasons , not just cutting your way out of your seatbelt . In fact I keep one in my plane . Sharp and/or pointy things make airport security nervous though - if you try to take such an item on an airline flight it will likely be taken away from you before you get anywhere near the plane . Food and Water Useful if you have to make an emergency landing in a remote area , but frankly airliners already have beverages ( some may even still have food ) . If you 're carrying a light snack you 're as set as you 're going to be in this department . Emergency Blankets Nice to have , but most commercial aircraft already have shock blankets on board ( and much like food/water , this is really only useful if you have an otherwise uneventful landing in a remote area ) . If it makes you feel better to have your own blanket you can get pre-packed ones that can fit in basically any carry-on for about $ 5-10 . Signal flares Again , mainly useful if you have an emergency landing in a remote area ( and your PLB and the plane 's ELT do n't work for some reason ) . Flares are good both for signaling rescuers and for starting fires to keep warm . I do n't know if rescue flares are still routinely carried on commercial airliners , but I can say with reasonable certainty that you will not be allowed to carry on your own . They do n't let you smoke on most airlines these days - they 're certainly not going to let you carry on a self-igniting flare !
Well , expanding off my comment above , I was boarding a flight with Delta and the pilot said over the PA that the people sitting over the wing should not be concerned about a whining sound that they would hear in a few minutes as it was the hydraulic pumps working .
Actually , for all but very long haul flights , airline aircraft only require two pilots , a Captain and a First Officer . For those long haul flights that exceed the duty time in a pilot seat , a relief pilot is also carried . Older aircraft often also had a flight engineer . Technically speaking the f.e. was n't usually required to be a pilot , but he was a very necessary crew member . You could say that airlines became more efficient crew-wise when they moved from 3-man cockpit crews to 2-man cockpit crews . For example , the 747-100/200 series uses 3-man crews , but the 747-400 uses 2-man crews . The change was made possible by using automation and instrumentation that was n't available when the first 747 models came out . Indirectly the increase in engine reliability also helped . If you lost an engine in an 3-man crew 747 , the typical manner of handling the loss was to have the first officer fly the airplane while the captain and the f.e. worked the problem . To illustrate the increase in automation , the 747-100/200 series had , typically , seven or nine fuel tanks , and there was a fuel burn schedule that had to be followed to keep the structural stresses and balances between different levels of the tanks within limits . The f.e. took care of that , doing it manually by throwing switches on his panel . The 747-400 and follow on models do that automatically by computer . Basically the number in the cockpit crew is determined by safety . There 's the basic consideration that if you had only one pilot , and that pilot died or otherwise was disabled , that might well be catastrophic . Beyond that , though , there 's the matter of what all has to be done and for how long . Pilots make mistakes , and the longer they 've on duty , the more mistakes they make . And if an emergency occurs , the work load can get very high . You ca n't reasonably compare an aircraft to a car for at least two reasons . First , a car is moving in only two dimensions , an aircraft in three . Second , a car can stop moving , an aircraft ca n't ; it has to keep moving . Let 's say your car loses power . Usually that wo n't result in anything more than inconvenience . If your aircraft loses power , you 've got a much more serious problem . Most airline aircraft have at least two engines . Losing one is n't going cause a crash in most two engine aircraft , losing all power will .
end question
start question
What type of hoops do I have to jump through to launch high power rockets ?
The FAR section that you are looking for is available on the ecfr website : <URL> More specifically , it is <URL> The main regulations that apply are ( see the above link for the full text of the regulations ) : § 101.23 General operating limitations . ( a ) You must operate an amateur rocket in such a manner that it : ( 1 ) Is launched on a suborbital trajectory ; ( 2 ) When launched , must not cross into the territory of a foreign country unless an agreement is in place between the United States and the country of concern ; ( 3 ) Is unmanned ; and ( 4 ) Does not create a hazard to persons , property , or other aircraft . ( b ) The FAA may specify additional operating limitations necessary to ensure that air traffic is not adversely affected , and public safety is not jeopardized . § 101.25 Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets . When operating Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets , you must comply with the General Operating Limitations of § 101.23 . In addition , you must not operate Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets -- ( a ) At any altitude where clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage prevails ; ( b ) At any altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles ; ( c ) Into any cloud ; ( d ) Between sunset and sunrise without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( e ) Within 9.26 kilometers ( 5 nautical miles ) of any airport boundary without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( f ) In controlled airspace without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( g ) Unless you observe the greater of the following separation distances from any person or property that is not associated with the operations : ( 1 ) Not less than one-quarter the maximum expected altitude ; ( 2 ) 457 meters ( 1,500 ft. ) ; ( h ) Unless a person at least eighteen years old is present , is charged with ensuring the safety of the operation , and has final approval authority for initiating high-power rocket flight ; and ( i ) Unless reasonable precautions are provided to report and control a fire caused by rocket activities . § 101.27 ATC notification for all launches . No person may operate an unmanned rocket other than a Class 1 -- Model Rocket unless that person gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility nearest to the place of intended operation no less than 24 hours before and no more than three days before beginning the operation : ... § 101.29 Information requirements . . ...
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
I have worked on large and small aircraft . You will find a 400hz power bus only on large aircraft . The reason is the greater quantity of poles in the generator and hence weight . Smaller aircraft use a 28v DC system for the avionics .
High altitude means low air density . Ignition is <URL> , and the size of the combustor determines up to which altitude and throttle setting an engine will stay lit . Testing that it really works at those low densities before flying is a really good idea .
The FAA 's <URL> : Is an FAA-issued pilot certificate required to operate a civil UAS under an experimental airworthiness certificate or a grant of exemption under Section 333 ? If the aircraft is issued an airworthiness certificate , a pilot certificate is required .5 Pilot certification requirements for petitions for exemption under Section 333 are evaluated on a case-by-case basis . The footnote links to this <URL> called Airworthiness Certification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Optionally Piloted Aircraft , which says : b. UA PIC Certification and Ratings Requirements . ( 1 ) The PIC must hold and be in possession of , at a minimum , an FAA private pilot certificate , with either an airplane , rotorcraft , or powered-lift category ; with single - or multiengine class ratings , appropriate to the type of UA being operated . ( 2 ) The PIC must have and be in possession of a valid second-class ( or higher ) airman medical certificate issued under 14 CFR part 67 , Medical Standards and Certification . So , it looks like there are two possibilities : Your UAS has an airworthiness certificate , therefore you need a pilot 's license per the Order ( private at least , not sport or recreational ) Your UAS does n't have an airworthiness certificate , therefore your section 333 petition will be evaluated individually and the FAA will tell you if you need a license or not
From a private pilot 's perspective , there are two possible options : a foreign-based license or a ' full ' FAA pilot 's license . The first type is defined in <URL> , which starts like this : § 61.75 Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license . ( a ) General . A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section . You apply to the FAA and they check with Germany ( or wherever ) that your foreign license is valid . If it is , they 'll issue a foreign-based license " with the appropriate ratings " with no flight or theory test of any kind required . That 's for VFR only ; if you 're instrument rated then you also have to do a theory test as well if you want to fly IFR . That sounds great - and I suppose it is - but there are two big practical concerns . First , any limitations on the foreign license are applied , e.g. if your license is for daytime VFR only then you 're still restricted to that , even if a regular FAA license would allow night VFR . And if your foreign license expires or becomes invalid for any reason , the FAA one does too . Second , you wo n't have been required to learn anything about US regulations or flying practices . So you might not fly safely or legally because you simply do n't know the rules or even what services are available to you as a pilot ( FSS , Flight Following , TRSA etc. ) . One way to handle this is to get some general orientation or introductory training from a US instructor or school , but as a foreigner that will require TSA approval unless you can do it as ground school only ( which is <URL> as " flight training " ) . But you might find - as I did - that some instructors will not work with a foreign student at all until they have TSA approval , whether or not it 's just ground work . The other option is to get a normal , full FAA license . You have to pass the same FAA medical , written and flight tests as US pilots to the same <URL> . You can count your previous flight time towards the required hours but you do need to be able to pass the tests so you will certainly need some instruction . And as a foreigner you will need TSA approval before you can receive any flight training . The big advantage of getting a full license is that it never expires . If you really want to get one and you have the time and money then you could look into spending a month somewhere suitable in the US ( Florida ? Arizona ? ) at a flight school to get it as quickly and cheaply as possible .
You 'll be on a flight plan . You 'll have to clear customs at a designated airport and file the appropriate paperwork . More info here : <URL> If you notify the border agency it will make recommendations if they think your flight poses a risk . There is only screening at Gatwick and Heathrow . <URL>
Big ones . Wake turbulence is primarily proportional to the aircraft 's weight , since this is generally directly related to the size of the aircraft and the amount of air the wings need to move to provide enough lift . Aircraft are categorized with respect to wake turbulence based on their maximum certificated takeoff weights . <URL> describes classes for ATC purposes as follows : Super - Interim class for the A380 and AN225 Heavy - 300,000 lb or greater Large - 41,000 - 300,000 lb Small - 41,000 lb or less Heavy and Super category aircraft are required to add their category to their callsign when contacting ATC , e.g. , " Speedbird 12 Super " . Aircraft in higher categories have larger separation requirements when in front on aircraft in smaller categories , such as between takeoffs or landings , and ATC will issue <URL> . The AC linked above discusses further on wake turbulence , such as how it propagates and how it should be avoided or escaped . The FAA is also working on a <URL> , which is in effect at MEM , SDF , CVG , and ATL . <URL> to the Metroplexes of Houston , New York , Charlotte , Chicago , and Northern California in 2015 . This approval was based on years of joint research and development by the FAA , Eurocontrol , scientific experts in wake , and experts in safety and risk analysis . Categories are now based on weight , certificated approach speeds , wing characteristics , along with special consideration given to aircraft with limited ability to counteract adverse rolls .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
There is actually quite a lot of information on the subject in the Braeunig web site <URL> . To give the salient points : Liquid-fueled rocket engines Both the nozzle and the combustion chamber itself need to be cooled . Although most of the thermal energy produced is ejected with the exhaust , some of it will indeed push hardware temperatures up if not checked . Techniques include : Regenerative cooling , where the propergols ( both propergols , or just the fuel ) are pumped through a jacket around the nozzle before going into the combustion chamber . This cools down the nozzle , and heats up the propergols that may be cryogenic in nature . This is what was used in the Saturn Vs ' Rocketdyne F-1 engines , and the Space Shuttle main engines . Dump cooling , similar to the above but the fuel used to cool the nozzle is dumped overboard instead of being fed into the combustion chamber and being used as , well , fuel . Film and transpirative cooling , where a thin film of coolant or fuel is created near the chamber wall . Ablative cooling , where part of the combustion chamber or nozzle wall is sacrificed . As the material is melted or otherwise burned away , it absorbs some of the thermal energy , thus saving whatever is behind it . Radiation cooling , where nozzle design is such that heat has time to be evacuated through the part 's exterior wall . This is used mainly in small engines , not main . Solid-fueled rocket engines No information available . Nothing . Zilch . Nada . It would seem that the nozzle and combustion chamber materials just need to be strong enough to withstand the heat from the burning gasses . It is perhaps worthwhile to note that solid rocket engines are designed to burn just one single time , and for a relatively short period of time ( even the Space Shuttle boosters were extensively overhauled before being put back into service , with any necessary parts changed ) . Rocket engines need to withstand working conditions for just minutes , instead of the thousands of hours an A/C jet engine turbine would be expected to work without failure . It would also be reasonable to assume - though this is strictly something I am making up on the go , with much hand waving - that of the techniques described above for liquid-fueled rocket engines , at least two could be easily adapted to solid engines : Film cooling , with an extra tank of cooling liquid on board . Ablative cooling , with some refractive material used to coat the inner surface of the nozzle .
Why ca n't they jump from it when the plane almost reaches the ground ? They would have higher chances of surviving , right ? Wrong . Remember your body still has roughly the same momentum it did when it was in the vehicle - just because you jumped out does n't mean you 're not still moving forward at a rate of speed the human body simply is n't designed for . Let 's reframe your question : If you were in a car doing 60 miles per hour and you knew the car was about to crash into a brick wall , would you jump from the vehicle , or would you remain strapped into your seat where the car , seat , seatbelt , and airbag will all help absorb the impact ? As with a car , being inside an aircraft and properly restrained will afford you substantial protection from the initial impact , and some of the crash energy will be absorbed damaging the aircraft . That increases the length of time it takes to decelerate your body and gives you a better chance of survival . If you jumped out of your friend 's Cessna because it 's going down and might hit some trees your unrestrained body would be decelerated far more abruptly when you hit the trees ( or the ground ) . You might survive , but you 've lessened your chances considerably ( and the Cessna is a best-case scenario - your forward speed would be around 60mph as in the car example . For something like a 747 you 'd be in the 150 mile-per-hour range or faster when you jumped out , which is almost certainly not survivable ) .
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
If you are asking about all or some of the masks as your title suggests , it <URL> . One such example from 2008 is <URL> . After the accident , numerous passengers said that some oxygen masks did not deploy , whilst others had deteriorated elastic . Consequently , it was reported that one passenger smashed a panel of the ceiling to attempt to gain access to the masks . It was stated that these passengers were deprived of oxygen until the plane was lowered to a breathable altitude . Best thing to do is to stay clam , and to breathe slowly/normally ( deep calm breaths ) . Worst case scenario if a person is a smoker and obese , they 'll pass out but will regain consciousness when the pilots reach a lower altitude . In a rapid depressurization emergency , the pilots act quickly to descend , it will be a matter of <URL> until the air would have sufficient oxygen again . Pilots have different mask systems that should be tested routinely . Related : <URL> <URL>
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
Wind is measured in true airspeed . That 's why whether it 's surface wind or a jet stream , subtracting the head/tail wind component from the airplane 's TAS yields the ground speed ( tailwind being a negative value ) . And a 25 knots crosswind -- the example you give -- will create the same crab angle for the same TAS being flown . But since pilots fly using IAS , the crab angle will be smaller the higher the airport . Cup Think of a cup anemometer , if the air is lighter ( high altitude , high temp ) , there will be lower resistance and the same wind speed will result in the <URL> : The remarkable thing is that the calibration does not depend on the air density . Who would have guessed ? The cup anemometer responds to wind forces , and those wind forces have a magnitude directly proportional to density . Yet because in a steady state those forces are balanced , density vanishes as a factor . The same thing applies to the propeller-vane anemometer . Tube In tube anemometers ( <URL> ) , corrections are <URL> : [ Due ] to differing temperature , elevation or barometric pressure , a correction is required to obtain the actual wind speed . Approximately 1.5 % ( 1.6 % above 6,000 feet ) should be added to the velocity recorded by a tube anemometer for each 1000 ft ( 5 % for each kilometer ) above sea-level . Ultrasonic Ultrasonic anemometers are like cup anemometers , density is cancelled out since measurements are taken in <URL> : [ Scalar ] values ( temperature , humidity , density ) are eliminated and the result comprises wind speed .
Helicopter wheels do not have power . Taxiing is accomplished by using the thrust from rotors - for example , in case of CH-47 , with rotors at normal rpm , the helicopter will have some forward speed ( 5-6 kt ) with controls at neutral and thrust control rod at ground detent . Steering is usually using pedals ( some helicopters have hydraulic steering ) and there are , of course brakes ( which are used to control taxi using differential braking in some cases ) . As you mentioned CH-47 , it is interesting to know that there are different ways to taxi the helicopter under different conditions . For example , <URL> , Taxiing with two aft gear on the Ground ... Displace the cyclic stick aft approximately 2 inches and increase the thrust till the forward landing gear is off the ground the helicopter begins to move . Maintain directional control with the directional pedals . Control taxi by adjusting the thrust control rod . and Taxiing with power steering ... After the helicopter has started to roll , the thrust control rod should be lowered to the ground detent . This amount of thrust and braking will maintain a moderate taxi speed . ... Turns are initiated by slowly rotating the control knob a small amount and then gradually increasing the knob rotation until the desired turn is reached . There are separate procedures for hover taxiing and water taxiing , though they do n't make use of wheels .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
You 'll find this info in helicopter performance design literature . The power to drive the rotor ( and a propellor ) can be sub-divided into three parts : useful power , induced power , and profile power . The solidity ratio shows up in the profile power part . Like in aerodynamics , the power/thrust equations are often made dimensionless and evaluated in coefficients . From Helicopter Test and Evaluation by Cooke and Fitzpatrick , section 2.4 : $ C_P = C_T \ left ( \ frac { V_C + v_i } { V_T } \ right ) + \ frac { s \ cdot C_D } { 8 } $ with $ s $ being solidity ratio . So solidity ratio shows up in the profile drag power portion , which makes sense .
These days , with digital recording , it 's likely that nothing special happens . " Mark the tape " is a holdover from when ATC recordings were actually on tapes - you could ask a controller to " mark " a tape to hold it and prevent it being recycled for another recording while your <URL> is being processed . ( Anecdotally I 've been told some facilities had tape rotations as short as 15 days , and a FOIA request letter could easily take longer than that to make it to the facility ) . Today much ( probably most ) of what is said on the frequency is recorded digitally , direct to hard drives , and kept around " essentially forever " as one of our local controllers put it when this came up at a recent event . Basically the virtual " tapes " stick around for as long as the facility 's recording machine has disk space to store them , and since audio files are n't that big facilities can store recordings a lot longer than they did in the days of tape . All that 's really needed to pull a record to review it with a controller/supervisor is the date , time , facility , and frequency ( and your aircraft callsign would probably be helpful too ) - e.g. " April 4 , 2014 - JFK Local Control for Runway 04R ( 119.1 ) - United 123 Heavy " . " Mark the tape and give me a phone number " survives as non-standard phraseology that lets the controller know that you will likely have a bone to pick with someone when you get on the ground and gives them the opportunity to tell their supervisor that an annoyed pilot will be calling the facility in the near future ( and hopefully give the supervisor time to listen to the tape ) . The useful part is really getting the facility phone number so you know who to call when you land .
end question
start question
What are the differences between porpoise ; bounced ; and nose-pointed-down landings ?
If the nose landing gear ( NLG ) makes contact first , but the plane settles down on the runway , that 's a nose-down landing . If the landing is normal , i.e. the main landing gear ( MLG ) touches down first , but the plane bounces , only to settle down on the MLG , that 's a bounced landing . If the plane bounces , after scenarios 1 or 2 , but proceeds to land on the NLG , leading to multiple bounces on the NLG , that 's a porpoise landing . Risking structural failure . <URL> Source : <URL>
<URL> is the force or wind generated behind a jet engine , particularly on or before takeoff when high/full power is set , but also when the aircraft is taxiing . When an object moves through air ( or some other medium , e.g. a spoon through nutella ) , air is disturbed . This disturbance or <URL> is known as <URL> . It can also be called <URL> . The difference is that jet blast is only because of engines . Jet wash or prop wash or wake turbulence is because the airplane moves through air . If Mr Kevin Fast runs at say 100 mph doing this ( see picture below ) , you can notice significant wake turbulence , although the engines are off and there is no jet blast .
Fail-safe does not necessarily imply that the system will continue operating after a fail . If the system stops operating but does not create a dangerous situation , it is still fail-safe . A non-essential service on board an aircraft such as the entertainment system can be fail-safe if it just stops operating because a fuse blows . If the fuse does not blow and as a result the system catches fire after a short-circuit , it is not fail-safe . Fail-soft does indeed mean that after a failure , essential services are still functional , although in aviation context this is mostly refereed to as graceful degradation . A fly-by-wire system such as on board the A320 is fail soft : If all functions , the system flies with normal law active , providing protections against getting into unsafe regions of the flight envelope . Upon certain detected failures , the system switches to alternate law , still with some protections in place . Upon further failures , the system switches to direct law : no more flight envelope protections , just surface deflection proportional to stick deflection . So this system is fail-soft and fail safe . The electronic flight control system as a whole is fail safe : if all flight computers are lost , the system has hydro-mechanical connections from pedals to the rudder and from the trim wheel to the the stabiliser . Hydraulic systems require special attention regarding fail-safety , since a stuck servo valve can command a constant velocity : the actuator runs into one of its stops and has a hard-over failure . An elevator that is stuck in full up deflection is not safe , so the pitch control system needs to make provisions for fail-safety if this fault occurs . For instance by allowing left and right elevators to normally work in unison , but uncoupling them after a detection of a hard-over failure . The working elevator can then be commanded to full opposite position , making the elevator system fail-safe but not fail-soft : pitch command must now be done with the stabiliser trim . One elevator stuck in the mid position would be fail-safe , and control with the other elevator provides graceful degradation . The flight control system on board an F-16 is fail-operational : upon a system failure , full system function continues , no degradation . It is quadruple redundant , meaning there are four systems on board that carry out the same function , while only one is required . The four systems function independently , and a monitoring system determines if all four outputs are within a pre-determined range . If three are and one is not , this system is switched off and the other three continue . This can happen once more , but if there are only two systems operational the voting system would not know which of the two has failed .
Flaps are at the back of the wing , slats are at the front . Easy ! :) If you want it more technical : They both help to generate more lift . See these diagrams with angle of attack and lift coefficient : <URL> <URL> As the lift coefficient is inversely proportional to the minimum airspeed , a higher CL will allow a lower Vmin .
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
<URL> In most planes , the Hobbs clock is started and stopped based on an oil pressure switch , so it starts when the engine starts , and stops when the engine is shut-down . While it 's running , it just ticks off a tenth of an hour every 6 minutes , based on " regular wall clock time " . So a tenth of idling on the ramp is the same as a tenth at cruise . <URL> The tach clock is n't really a clock at all , it does n't actually measure time , it really measures engine revolutions . But it 's calibrated such that a tenth of an hour of tach time is clicked off when the engine is at cruise RPM for 6 minutes . In other words , if the plane is at cruise RPM , the tach clock will be clicking off tenths of an hour at the same rate as the Hobbs clock , and the same as the watch on your wrist . But if the engine is idling at an RPM speed that 's half of what cruise RPM is , then the tach clock will be running at half the speed of the Hobbs clock . Relation So , for the tach clock , less " time " is clocked when the plane is idling on the ramp , or flying at low RPM . For short flights ( where ramp idling time is a significant percentage of total time ) , and flights where you 're doing a lot of pattern work ( and thus operating at low RPM ) , tach time will be significantly less than Hobbs time . Maintenance When an engine is replaced or overhauled , that engine is considered to be " zero time " . Whether they actually reset the tach gauge to 0 when the engine is overhauled , or if there 's a way to put a time on a brand new tach or Hobbs meter when the old one dies and is replaced , I dunno , but in general , I 'd assume that the aircraft 's engine and airframe log books are really the official recording of the progression of airframe/engine times , so I do n't know that it 's particularly important whether the tach is set to the engine 's time , or if it 's really just used as an incremental meter . AOPA has a nice ( and long ) <URL> about this .
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
The only formal classification of door types that I could find is in <URL> , which specifies the emergency exit requirements for transport category aircraft . It defines Type I-IV , Type A-C , ventral and tailcone exits . The doors you usually enter and leave the aircraft through are probably type I or A : Type I . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high , with corner radii not greater than eight inches . Type A . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high , with corner radii not greater than seven inches . These definitions are quite generic , but Transport Canada has a handy list of <URL> that gives specific details ( often including the type ) for many common aircraft . It says this for the 767 main doors : B-767-200 / 300ER ( Doors 1L/R FWD , 2L/R AFT ) Note : Some models equipped with 2 additional type 1 exits L/R just forward of wing . H - 1.88 m ( 6 ft 2 in ) W - 1.07 m ( 3 ft 6 in ) ; Type A Equivalent force required to move door control handle from closed/locked position to open position ( Normal and Emergency ) : 12 kg ( 26 lbs ) . Approximate force required to open a door ( lift upward ) from unlocked to open : 18 kg ( 40lbs ) . " Counterbalance " opening design . Inward/upward opening doors . Manually operated except some models equipped with electrical ( normal operation ) opening/closing option ( FWD Entry Door ) . Unique arming/disarming mechanism ( lever , indicators ) . Release button must be depressed and held to move arming lever to " Slide Armed " mode . Yellow plastic " Emergency Use Only " ( bendable ) flag moves upward in front of Door Control Handle when slide is in armed mode . Double channel slides . Upward rotating Door Control Handle . " Uplatch " mechanism holds door in open position . Button must be depressed while door is lowered initial few inches , to release . You can see from that list that the details can vary a lot , even if the basic designs are very similar . Coming up with pros and cons for every variant would be tough ( especially for me , since I know nothing about it ! ) , but obviously some aircraft are larger than others and that will limit how much space is available for the door mechanism . There are also operational considerations : aircraft that frequently operate out of smaller airports without <URL> may need to have <URL> , which are usually built into the doors .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
Normally the relation is <URL> used in flight . However , the Mach number and the Reynolds number will cause shifts . For the Mach effect , use the Prandtl-Glauert rule in subsonic flow up to Mach 0.7 : $ $ ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { Mach } = ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { incompressible } \ cdot \ sqrt { 1-Mach ^ 2 } $ $ A higher <URL> means a relatively thinner boundary layer , and since the boundary layer on the suction side of the airfoil grows in thickness with increasing angle of attack , the same airfoil will have less boundary layer growth at a higher Reynolds number . This translates into a higher effective angle of attack at the same geometrical angle , so the lift curve slope becomes steeper and will reach stall at a higher angle . There are no standard conditions , but a proper lift curve graph should note both the Mach and Reynolds number for which it is valid .
It depends on the aircraft ( and conditions ) . In some aircraft like the MD-11 , the deployment of ground spoilers causes a nose up pitching moment - in such a case , the spoilers should be deployed after nose landing gear touches down . An example is the <URL> where the aircraft , a MD-11 exhibited a pitch up tendency during landing and the pilot had to initiate a go around . The <URL> : The MD-11 Flight Crew Operating Manual , Volume II , Landing Roll Procedure , contains the following note : Ground spoiler deployment causes nose up pitching moment . This effect is most noticeable at aft centers of gravity . It is important to check the nose up pitching tendency with forward pressure on the control column and smoothly lower the nose wheel to the runway . In some cases the deployment of thrust reversers could also have similar effect . In such cases , the thrust reversers and spoilers should be deployed after the nose wheel touches the ground , while in other cases , it is done after the main landing gear touches down and before the nose gear touches down . From <URL> : ... some airplanes tend to pitch noseup when reverse is selected on landing and this effect , particularly when combined with the noseup pitch effect from the spoilers , can cause the airplane to leave the ground again momentarily . On these types , the airplane must be firmly on the ground with the nosewheel down , before reverse is selected . Other types of airplanes have no change in pitch , and reverse idle may be selected after the main gear is down and before the nosewheel is down . There are other issues as well - deployment of thrust reversers before the nose wheel touches the ground means the pilot may not have sufficient authority for steering the aircraft in case one of them does n't deploy . To prevent this some aircraft restrict the use of full reverse thrust till the nose landing gear is on ground ( though idle reverse is permitted once the main gear touches down ) . Also , for aircraft having engines in rear , the deployment of clamshell type thrust reversers can have clearance and debris ingestion issues which can limit their deployment . Also , the effect of spoiler deployment on the aircraft aerodynamics has also to be considered . For example , <URL> : The MD-80 and MD-90 in-flight spoiler lockout mechanism prevents the undesirable flight control configuration of deployed spoilers in either the speed brake or ground spoiler mode when flaps are extended . There are also other aircraft ( like Tu-154 ) where the thrust reversers were deployed before touchdown . So , all in all , it is better to consult the particular aircraft manual to decide when the spoilers/thrust reversers are to be engaged .
On a pilot-vs-FBW system perspective , as mentioned in the comments to the question , the most notable difference is the authority priority : Boeing trusts more the pilots : they can supersede the Fly-by-wire automatic commands by exerting enough force on the controls Airbus trusts more the FBW system : if the system is fully functional ( " Normal law " ) it will always have priority over the pilots to protect the aircraft and keep it in the envelope , but they still have room for " non-standard " maneuvers , e.g. commanding bank angles between 33 ° and 60 ° . The autopilot can be activated and de-activated at will by the pilots , and it sits on top of the FBW envelope protection . One of the most famous examples where this comparison emerges ( and the subsequent debate about which approach is better ) is the <URL> accident . I wo n't go into detail , there is the <URL> that will provide much more information that I can remember , but suffice to say that this 747 was recovered from a quite unusual attitude As mentioned in the wiki article , the report states that the passengers were subject up to 5 gs during the maneuver and the stress on the horizontal tail surface has been so great that as a result it was damaged : The usual argumentation goes along the lines that , would this had been an Airbus , the pilots would not have been able to save the aircraft . See for example <URL> at page 184 of the pdf , section 6.2.3 " Pilot Authority at the Boundary " : It is likely that if the aircraft had prevented the crew from initiating control commands that would lead to aircraft damage , the aircraft ( and passengers ) would have been lost . The problem with such a comparison ? It focuses on the recovery after the unusual attitude was achieved and totally forgets about the sequence of events that lead to it or , to the very least , assumes that an Airbus would have responded in the same way to the preceding events ( then why make a comparison at all ? ) An honest comparison would take into account this and acknowledge that an Airbus in Normal Law would not enter a spiral dive in the first place , even with an engine out , as bank protection/attitude-hold would prevent it .
Like every military aircraft built over the years , the aircraft evolve . So to address the aircraft 's history and all variants , let 's refer to it as the Blackbird . The Blackbird started out as the A-12 procured for the CIA . Fifteen of these were built with one being a 2-seat trainer . Two of the 15 were modified into M-21 aircraft prior to delivery . The M-21 was designed to launch the D-21 drones . The SR-71 at the Intrepid museum ( 60-6925 ) in New York was built as an A-12 . One of the M-21 's is at the <URL> in Seattle with a D-21B drone . Three high-speed interceptor prototypes were built and designated as the YF-12A and were capable of carrying 3 air-to-air missiles . Two crashed and the third is at the <URL> . The interceptor was cancelled and the RS-71 program , renamed SR-71 after LBJ 's misstatement at the press conference , went forward for the AF . Twenty-nine SR-71A 's were built along with 2 SR-71B trainers . When one of the trainers was lost in 1968 , the surviving aft part of one of the crashed YF-12A 's was mated to the front part the SR-71 static test aircraft to create the sole SR-71C . There 's a huge Blackbird community online . Detail specs and history are available at <URL> and at <URL> . The question of which is superior is an opinion , but one can assume that the SR-71 's were " better " than the A-12 's as they came later building on what was learned from both the A-12 and YF-12A .
<URL> covers all the regs pretty well . But in short the key point on class G ( uncontrolled ) is Although ATC has no authority or responsibility to control air traffic , pilots should remember there are visual flight rules ( VFR ) minimums which apply to Class G airspace . Class G airspace also holds no specific entry requirements ( aside from VFR minimums ) , no specific aircraft equipment ( no radio , no transponder etc ) and no minimum pilot certificate requirement ( but you still need a license ( one of a few varieties ) you just do n't need anything in addition like the instrument rating requirements for class A ) . On the contrary glass G airspace ( uncontrolled ) is not a free for all and you are not free to do as you please in some regards . While ATC has no reach into Class G the FAA does and you are still bound by the regulations the FAA puts forth that apply to class G airspace . Likewise the definition they provide for controlled is Controlled airspace is a generic term that covers the different classifications of airspace and defined dimensions within which air traffic control ( ATC ) service is provided in accordance with the airspace classification . If you are wondering what the specific purpose of ATC is they define that as well , The primary purpose of the ATC system is to prevent a collision between aircraft operating in the system and to organize and expedite the flow of traffic .
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
In subsonic flow the air can react to the approaching vehicle since the pressure field around it extends forward , too . This means that a suction area on one side of the fuselage or wing will already start to pull molecules in before they reach the vehicle itself which causes this suction . A round nose allows the flow to come from a range of angles without creating too much drag . Aerodynamically speaking , the <URL> can be moved without problems . In supersonic flow , the air has no indication of the approaching vehicle . The first contact will cause a sudden change in direction , called a shock . For drag reduction it is important to make the shock as weak as possible , which means that the change in direction should be as small as possible . This can best be achieved by a slender , pointy tip . Note the downward position of the intake cone of the SR-71 engine nacelle in the picture below : It is angled so that at Mach 3.2 the cone is symmetrical to the oncoming flow ( which gives you a pretty good indication of the angle of attack of the whole plane ) . <URL> SR-71 during take-off ( picture <URL> ) . Not only is the cone angled downward , but also canted in because the flow is pressed sideways by the aircraft 's forebody in supersonic flight . In hypersonic flow ( Mach > 5 ) a blunt nose might again be preferable if the nose 's materials put an upper limit on aerodynamic heating . A pointed tip will produce an attached shock which will heat the tip to something close to the <URL> of the flow . A blunt nose , however , will cause a separated shock . This creates more drag and higher heat loads overall , but allows to spread the heat over a larger area and produces lower peak loads . The Space Shuttle had such a blunt nose , since drag minimization is not a priority for a re-entry vehicle .
For references , I 've used <URL> ; <URL> ; <URL> ; &amp; the <URL> . The wiki is a general side-stick discussion listing ( some ) aircraft that have side-stick fly-by-wire ( FBW ) technology , but does not go into active vs. passive . Generally speaking , if you have used a joystick on your PC to fly Microsoft 's Flight Simulator , such as <URL> , you 've used an active side-stick . According to the Patent Application cited above , the patent is for an Active Side-Stick technology described as " pilot flight control stick haptic feedback mechanism provides variable force feedback to the pilot flight control stick . " One of the ' issues ' with the current passive side-stick technology ( approved for use ) used on aircraft such as Airbus ' A380 is that there is no tactile feedback when using the side-sticks , such as a pilot would feel using an old-style column or yoke . In a Cessna 172 , for instance , when you pull/push/turn the yoke , there is actual tactile feel , if you pull back strongly in-flight , you 'll ' feel ' the forces exerted against the airflow . Passive side-sticks have none of this ' feel ' . Active SS technology attempts to replicate the forces on the joystick . Active SS technology is currently used on most miltary aircraft using side-sticks , but does not appear to have yet made its way into civilian airliners . ( If I 've gotten stuff wrong , I 'll remove/fix this answer , as I am not an airline pilot and have never had the opportunity to fly military hardware . )
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
end question
start question
How is the weight of an airplane measured ?
The empty weight of airplanes can only be given to single-pound precision for one specific airplane . Minute differences in metal sheet thickness , equipment and paint will make sure that there is a difference of many pounds between airplanes of the same type and furnishing . Add to this the difference in seating , galleys and instrumentation between airplanes of the same type which are operated by different airlines , and a precise number as in your question becomes almost meaningless . A better way would be to give a range in which most airplanes will fall , or to round the number like the Concorde weight of your question . Weighing is quite straightforward : All tires of the landing gear are placed on scales and the weights are summed up . If the attitude of the airplane does not change , the weight on the tires can even be measured consecutively , so only one scale is needed . Small floatplanes can be suspended from a crane with a scale in the line holding the aircraft . In <URL> 's biography he remembers an aircraft deal with the Soviet Union in the late 1920s . He had to deliver five floatplanes of a specified weight , and the Russian approval inspectors insisted on all planes having the exact same weight . Of course the planes were not identically heavy , but his advantage was that the scale in his factory was indicating the weight by printing it on cards . So the evening before the inspectors came , he let one aircraft be weighed five times , put the cards back into the machine and had the printing mechanism disabled . The next day he closed the business successfully with his very happy Russian guests .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
When you consider the aircraft as a whole , lift equals weight in level flight . This must be true following the laws of physics . However , if you break down the forces , the lift produced by the wings does not necessary equal to the weight of the aircraft . Lift is also generated by the body ( albeit very inefficient ) and by the tail . Most horizontal stabilizers generate negative lift , but some ( e.g. the A380 ) generate positive lift . If we ignore the fact that fuselage produces lift , and assume a configuration where the tail produces downward force , then you are correct . But the fuselage does produces lift . Modern aircraft designs use software to take that into account .
My answer was rather concise first , and I got the impression that I need to elaborate the question first . The question is about the best airspeed for maximum range . With wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . User2168 has answered that part already with a graphical solution . OK , now back to gliders . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Since User2168 has beaten me to the graphical solution , I will add an analytical solution . For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at still wind which can be found in many performance books . This here I did n't find anywhere , and it took me a while to figure it out . Thank you , Lnafziger , for the excellent question ! It gave me a chance to learn something . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L
The gliding slope , which equals $ D/L $ , does not change with weight . Hence , starting from a given height $ h $ , the longest gliding distance will be $ d = h \ cdot max ( L/D ) = h \ cdot max ( C_L / C_D ) $ , i.e. , independent of weight . However , the gliding speed , and , consequently , the gliding time , do change with weight , and significantly . If $ C _ { L , max } $ is the lift coefficient when $ C_L / C_D $ is maximal , the gliding speed at best slope , $ \ bar { V } $ , is obtained from $ W = ( 1/2 ) \ cdot rho \ cdot \ bar { V } ^ 2 \ cdot S _ { ref } \ cdot C _ { L , max } $ .
These weights are all based on the maximum an aircraft will ever see . The maximum allowed weight of passengers ( + luggage ) and cargo ( called payload weight ) is the difference between the Operational empty weight ( about 270,000 kg ) and the Zero fuel weight ( 361,000 kg ) . This means the payload weight is about 91,000 kg . The passenger and crew weight can be estimated by the following numbers : 175 lbs per pax + 30 lbs of baggage for short medium range distance ( or 40 lbs for long range ) 175 lbs per crew member + 30 lbs of baggage $ ^ 1 $ So let 's say that ( for easier calculations ) the average passenger + luggage weight is 100 kg . When we assume 530 passengers and 25 crew , then the weight would be $ 555 \ times100 = 55,000 kg $ . That leaves 36,000 kg for cargo . All the weights listed are , of course , maximum weights . That means that an aircraft in general does not meet these values . The maximum fuel weight is the difference between maximum ramp weight and zero fuel weight ( which is $ 562,000-361 ,000 = 201,000 kg $ ) . About 2,000 kg is taken for the time the engines are running while the aircraft did not yet take of ( for taxiing etc ) . This is the difference between maximum ramp weight and MTOW . The amount of fuel varies so much per flight that I really ca n't say anything about it . It depends on the air pressure in the flight path ( aircraft choose their routes depending on that , for a faster flight ) , weather along the route , and much more . For quite a good overview I suggest for you to read <URL> . I hope I answered your question sufficiently . $ ^ 1 $ Source : Jan Roskam , Airplane design , Part I : Preliminary Sizing of Airplanes ( 1985 )
It 's the <URL> : The yaw string dates from the earliest days of aviation , and actually was the first flight instrument . Picture : <URL> <URL>
There are several additional measures which can be done to prevent a tied down airplane from harsh weather , storms and blizzards . However , nature is always more powerful than humans and it can overcome any safety measures taken by them . If your airplane is tied down properly and securely , hail is a bigger threat than storms or blizzards . A hangar protects an airplane more than the one outside , but it costs a lot more . <URL> ( and <URL> ) discusses several measures you can take to protect your airplane against harsh weather . To avoid redundancy , I am just pointing ( and paraphrasing ) a few here : Parking spot If you can , choose a spot which can break the wind intensity . Anchor points Depending on the aircraft , the anchor points ' holding strength must be 3000-4000 lbs . Ropes You should use those ropes which do not shrink when wet ( e.g. , nylon or dracon ropes instead of Manila ) . Position If possible , park aircraft nearly into the wind as possible . Weight A lighter object is easier to get displaced . You can fill-up the tanks to add extra weight . If you interested in reading some long articles , <URL> and <URL> provide some useful information too . Regarding your second question about snow on the wings , I hardly doubt that something like this will happen : The above <URL> because : ... when the tail hook was torn off and the plane was pushed forward , breaking the spar . <URL> Airplane wings are very sturdy . They can bear the weight of foot or two of snow .
Short answer Determination of mass and balance ( or weight and balance ) is a critical task for the crew , an error in this operation may have tragic consequences . Weighing passengers and carry-on items is mandatory per regulation . Either standard predetermined weights , or actual weights can be used in this operation . Airlines usually use predetermined tables . Tables values take into account different types of travel ( e.g. regular and charter ) . While the weight must be checked , the center of gravity location is of equal importance . The distribution of the passengers in the aircraft is also taken into consideration . Aircraft are not weighed prior to each flight , but the basic empty weight must be known and checked periodically per regulation . Aircraft are weighed simply using scales under the carriages :-) ( <URL> ) The other method is to use jacks . See further below for an image . So this was the short answer . To understand why and how to balance the aircraft , there are quite a lot elements to introduce . For those interested , just continue ! Weight ... The different elements composing the takeoff weight : <URL> All of these elements must be determined prior to taxi and takeoff . The mass of these elements are necessary to check that the different maximum weights are not exceeded . However there is another aspect of the masses which needs to be secured : Where are the masses located ? Taking KeithS ' example , if there are many heavy people grouped in the forward section , we may have a problem at <URL> , even if the <URL> is not exceeded . ... and balance . Location of the center of gravity vs. the MAC The masses must be distributed so that the center of gravity of the aircraft is located within limits determined relatively to the aerodynamic chord , and the center of lift . This is required to ensure the stability and the maneuverability , to minimize the efforts on the horizontal and vertical stabilizers and to increase the maximum lift and reduce the drag . On airliners , the center of lift must be located between the CG and the center of lift of the horizontal stabilizer , so that the latter pushes downward to balance the weight . On airliners the width of the wing is greatest where it meets the fuselage at the wing root and progressively decreases toward the tip . As a consequence , the chord also changes along the span of the wing . The average length of the chord is known as the mean aerodynamic chord ( <URL> ) . The MAC is a portion of the wing , delimited by LeMAC ( leading , 0 % ) and TeMAC ( trailing , 100 % ) . The CG must be located in the MAC . In large aircraft , center of gravity limitations and the actual center of gravity are often expressed in terms of % MAC ( on the roll axis , similar limits exist on the two other axis ) . ( image and text around : <URL> ) In general , in large transport aircraft , the most forward CG is located as forward as 5 % MAC , while the most aft location as aft as 40 % MAC . The average CG limits in large transport aircraft are between 20 and 30 % MAC . As commented by Calchas , using wrong weights for the passengers ( adults instead of children ) may move the CG to a wrong location , not balanced by the trim , and create strong difficulties during the takeoff and the initial climb . PAX weight applicable procedures For an airliner , the PAX portion is relatively small compared to the total mass , so the passengers mass is usually estimated based on standard passenger mass tables and the number of PAX per cabin section . Each airline may provide its own standard mass tables , but standard tables are proposed with the applicable regulation : <URL> or EU-OPS1 for Europe ( section <URL> ) . Values valid in 2008 : ( <URL> ) Those tables have been establish using airlines data obtained by surveys . They are updated from time to time . In case the operator wants to establish their own equivalent tables , <URL> provides a detailed operating mode to sample passengers and weigh them . For the EU , a new survey was conducted by the European Aviation Safety Agency in 2009 and a proposal for table updates issued : <URL> At this point you may want to download the documentation I 'm mostly using for this post : <URL> . We are at page 54 . Special cases There are cases where it is obvious the actual mass and balance will be erroneous if the standard tables are used ( this is especially true for a small cabin ) . In these cases the operator must improve the evaluation by actual weighing of either all or a sample of passengers and their baggage . The procedure already mentioned for establishing standard tables is used ( <URL> ) . Putting all elements together All masses , arms ( distance to the reference center ) and <URL> are finally reported on the aircraft manifest to calculate the correction that must be used for the takeoff ( trim amount ) . Basic empty weight determination The aircraft is not weighed for each takeoff , still it has been weighed to determine its basic empty weight and its center of gravit
Very frequent . Modern airliners are certainly fairly slippery , but it 's not so much that they 're super-gliders that we ca n't wrestle down onto the ground . It 's more a function of busy airspace than a property of the aircraft . When you remove power from any aircraft , it 's going to descend - the only question is the rate . I promise you that if you found yourself a long way from an airport in a powerless B737 , you 'd find that descent rate to be faster than you 'd like ! The main reason for spoiler use is n't that a modern aircraft glides " too well " - but rather than the airspace is busier so aircraft are expected to respond a little quicker than in the past , which can make it more convenient to descend faster as a pilot . It also means that ATC will often ask pilots to maintain a higher-than-ideal airspeed on the descent : if travelling at 160 knots , you 'll descend faster than you would at 180 or 200 knots , for example ... but more often these days , you 're asked to maintain a higher minimum airspeed for longer . That 's often convenient for ATC as it gets you where you 're going faster , and it 's convenient for you too , because you get to go home faster : but it means you 're travelling a lot further in the next minute , making it harder to hit the descent rates required , necessitating the use of spoilers in some circumstances . Clarification : In this answer I 've focused on the later stages of the flight : " Slower = descend faster " is not necessarily a universal constant - aircraft glide best at their " best glide speed " which is a function of drag , weight , and airspeed . This answer assumes that , as for most airliners , best glide speed is in the region of 200-250 knots , and that an airliner is unlikely to descend at/faster than their best glide speed in the approach phases where speeds are typically in the 150-200 knot range . At lower altitudes when descending under ATC , the above ATC-centric discussion applies . At higher altitudes , it tends to revolve around efficiency and company policy : the longer you can stay at cruising speed/altitude , the more efficient your flight will be : therefore it saves the airline money to descend as late as possible , requiring a higher descent rate . Spoilers , of course , help with that . TL ; DR : Some of it stems from the aircraft design being more aerodynamic and therefore better at gliding , but it 's more closely related to ATC being busier and therefore keeping aircraft higher/faster for longer , which requires higher descent rates and therefore the use of spoilers , along with the fact it 's more efficient to stay high/fast in the cruise for as long as possible then descend later/faster
Perhaps the biggest weight reduction in aircraft across the board has been the use of composite materials over aluminum . This extends from <URL> all the way up through airliners like <URL> . In the retro fit game , some older planes have been certified to <URL> . Even small savings matter <URL> LED modules give on average a 40 % weight saving over the incandescent modules they are replacing , which improves fuel economy Glass cockpits and modern computerized avionics tend to weigh less and offer more than their earlier steam gauge counter parts . <URL> The system also provides greater backup capability , weighs less and uses less power than the original design . Another thing that has made a fair dent in take off weight is how fuel efficient engines have gotten . While there is a practical limit to this as engines have gotten more efficient the need to carry fuel has dropped or planes can go farther on the same fuel . In a similar vein as weather planning/predicting has gotten better fuel loads ( <URL> ) may be slightly lighter as they can now be more precisely calculated . <URL> that has <URL> ...
There are plenty of great $ 20,000 aircraft out there - the hard part is finding them . " What to look for " is an incredibly broad question , and varies substantially between different types of aircraft : You would not look for the same things on a Piper Comanche as you would on a Cessna 182 . Accordingly the first thing you want to do is find a mechanic who is an expert in the particular type of aircraft to help you check it out and do a " pre-purchase inspection " . Finding those mechanics is actually pretty easy : Look for a " type club " that supports the aircraft you 're considering and ask them for recommendations ( e.g. for a Cessna <URL> , for a Cirrus <URL> , for most Piper aircraft <URL> , for Beechcraft <URL> , etc. . Talk to folks on those forums ( and to your mechanic ) about what you , as a buyer , should be looking at before you get the mechanic involved for the more detailed inspection . There are lots of things you as a pilot ( even a student pilot ) can determine just by looking at a plane ( and/or the logbooks ) . Some key items to look at before you go see the plane : NTSB Records <URL> go to the NTSB site ( or the equivalent if you 're not in the USA ) and search for accident records . Not every accident will show up in the database , but sometimes you 'll find out that the cream puff aircraft being advertised has actually been " substantially damaged " in an accident . The NTSB database search is free and there 's no reason not to do it . Logbooks All aircraft have logs , so if possible get a copy of them before you even go to look at the plane . Read through the logs ( yes , all of them ) : You 'll find all sorts of interesting things in there , but what you 're mainly looking for is good , consistent maintenance and regular use of the aircraft . As a secondary concern you 're looking for major repairs ( or significant minor ones ) that you might want to ask your mechanic about . FAA Records You can <URL> online for a small fee . This includes registration information and any records of major repairs/alterations ( " Form 337 " ) filed for the aircraft . It is generally an " interesting subset " of the logs . This is something you 'll want to have handy when your mechanic looks at the plane , though it 's not something you need to have before you go look at it yourself . Theoretically the owner should have all the documents that this record contains as part of their records/logbooks , but in practice paperwork sometimes gets " lost " . If all that looks good it 's time to look at the plane : How is the overall condition of the aircraft ? Cosmetics can lie , so do n't be dazzled by a shiny coat of paint and a nice interior : Is the on-board paperwork ( ARROW ) all in order ? Are the tires , hoses , and other rubber components in good condition ? Is the engine bay ( relatively ) clean ? Are there any leaks , drips , or other items of concern ? Are there obvious signs of damage ( skin patches , dents , fabric tears , etc. ) ? Are there obvious signs of corrosion ( bubbles under the paint , etc. ) ? Is the paint in overall good condition ( no major chips , no cracks , no flaking ) ? Is the aircraft itself clean ? ( As much as cosmetics lie , a plane that looks like it 's been neglected probably has been ... ) Does the aircraft pass a very thorough preflight ? Go through the preflight checklist with an eye for anything abnormal -- ask yourself " Would I fly this aircraft today ? " . If the answer is no , think carefully about why . If the answer is yes it may be time to test-fly with the current owner . Does the aircraft operate correctly on the test flight ? Do the engine and propeller operate properly ? Do all the instruments and avionics function correctly ? Does the aircraft fly well ? Can you trim for hands-off straight and level flight ? If the aircraft passes all your checks it 's time to turn your mechanic loose on it - they will inspect the aircraft for problems ( major and minor ) that you as a pilot might not notice which can wind up costing you a lot of money . This pre-purchase inspection ( and the ensuing negotiation based on what the mechanic finds ) is usually the last stop before handing over your money and taking the keys .
For precisely this reason the <URL> had a fuel tank in the horizontal tail . However , the pilots I spoke with ( Pan Am ) did not understand the purpose and insisted that the tank is empty all the time . The A330 and A340 also have a tail fuel tank , and here its fuel level is automatically controlled . <URL> A330 tank arrangement ( picture <URL> ) . Note the trim tank in the horizontal tail . Shifting the c.g. a little back reduces drag slightly ( <URL> , depending on initial c.g. position ) but also static stability . This is no problem when the FCS adds enough stability , but in case of a system failure you should make sure that the rear tank can be emptied soon . Hand flying an aircraft with relaxed static stability <URL> . The A350 did away with this feature because it was felt that the added complexity would outweigh the benefits .
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
With sea creatures the dorsal fin acts as a <URL> providing the actual sideways force during the turn . They remain level while turning . Planes on the other hand bank to turn where the sideways force is provided by the lift of the wings . To provide yaw stability the vertical stabilizer should be as far from the center of mass as possible . They are not in front because that would be unstable as the minor deviation from straight ahead would increase the force into the deviation rather than provide a force to counteract it .
I believe this is a hoax1 . I 've read through several documents describing the protections provided by Airbus flight laws ( this is not autopilot ; autopilot is a separate layer on top of it ) and have never seen any mention of any kind of ground proximity protection . Only standard ( E ) GPWS which yells " terrain , pull up " . Update : Of course now there is EGPWS that gets aircraft position from GPS and can yell " terrain , pull up " when there is no airport ahead , but 25 years ago there was only GPWS based on radar altimeter which did n't know anything about position and would switch to simply read out2 the radar altimeter value whenever gear ( and maybe also flaps ; not sure here ) was extended . 1Might have been even attempt at <URL> against the then novel technology . 2That is say " one thousand " , " five hundred " , " two hundred " , " one hundred " , " fifty " , " forty " , " thirty " , " twenty " , " retard " 3 ( and " ten " or " five " when it stops saying " retard " and the wheels are not on the ground yet ) . This is useful during approach so the pilot can concentrate less on the instruments and more on outside reference and in the final phase to help judge when flare should be initiated . It will also warn " sink rate " when the sink rate is excessive ( more than -1000 ft/min , the stabilized approach criteria ) . 3At 15 or so feet , if the thrust levers are not in idle gate , the Airbus system starts announcing " retard " and keeps announcing it until the thrust levers are placed in the idle gate ( or reverse ) . This is specific to Airbus . I believe it can also announce " minimums " when approach minima are configured in the flight management system .
When it is slow , the two or three wheels should keep it from flipping over . Once it is fast enough to fly , the wing will provide what we engineers call roll damping : Any tendency to roll † will cause an opposing moment which will stop the motion quickly . The rest is done by a differential deflection of the ailerons , so the wing creates an equal and opposite rolling moment to that of the propeller . What is roll damping : Once the wing starts to roll , one side will go up while the other goes down . This will cause a change in local angle of attack and , consequently , local lift . The down-moving wing will see a higher angle of attack and a local lift increase , and the opposite happens on the other side . Total lift will remain unchanged , but now the change in the spanwise lift distribution will lift the down-moving wing back up and vice versa . The movement stops before it could pick up any speed . With powerful engines , engine torque is a real problem and needs to be canceled with a few tricks : Camber on the vertical tail : The vertical tail will create a side force and rolling moment which depends on the speed of the air flowing over the vertical . This helps to make the correction depend on the power setting of the engine . Just make sure that the vertical is in the slipstream of the propeller . With <URL> propellers you can cancel the rolling moment of each propeller with that of the other . This needs a more complex gearbox , however . In operation , apply power changes only slowly . With its narrow undercarriage , the <URL> would become uncontrollable if the pilot went from idle to full power on the ground too quickly . Watch the <URL> : In <URL> , the aircraft <URL> once the tail is lifted during the ground run or the pitch attitude is changed in flight . Also , yawing ( rotation around the vertical axis ) will create a pitch moment ( which acts around the spanwise axis ) . † Roll : Movement around the longitudinal axis .
The engine does n't care how heavy the airplane is ( or how well it is flying ) , but you might . As long as you are cruising around at a particular altitude and power setting , then the engine is going to consume fuel at the same rate . A heavier airplane will require increased lift , which will induce greater drag , and will have a lower forward airspeed as a result of that same power ( assuming it is not so heavy that it prevents you from maintaining altitude ) . If on the other hand you have a particular airspeed you want to maintain , then the power needed for that speed will depend on weight . Lower weight , less power necessary , less fuel flow required to supply the power .
By regulation , a " weight &amp; balance " must be computed before departure to ensure that the weight is within the weight limits for a number of different conditions and that the weight is distributed such that the c.g. ( center of gravity ) of the airplane is also within the longitudinal c.g. limits for those conditions . That c.g. is typically computed assuming the the passengers are in the seats they have been assigned . If the passengers are seated elsewhere , the computed c.g. is not accurate . In other words , the pilots would n't know where the c.g. is or whether it is even within limits . The takeoff trim setting is affected by the c.g. . If the pilots set the trim according to the computed value , and the c.g. is considerably aft of that , on liftoff the nose is going to want to pitch up more than the pilots expect . If the c.g. is so far aft that it is well beyond the aft limits , serious control problems can occur . If the c.g. is far forward of what the pilots are expecting , they 're going to have to pull harder on the elevator control than expected to get the aircraft to rotate , and that is going to extend the takeoff roll . Different makes of aircraft vary widely in c.g. limitations and how tolerant they are limit wise of passenger placement in aircraft that are not full . For example , when I was flying Metroliners , if you had few passengers , you had to ask them to sit toward the rear . I once got a strange look from Rosey Grier ( Google him if you do n't know who he is ) when I had to ask him to sit in the back of the aircraft . Once you 're in the air , the movement of passengers is of lesser concern balance wise . You 're at speed , the elevator is fully effective , and the pilots or the autopilot keep the airplane in trim . In other words , the trim is what it is rather than a computed value that might not reflect reality . Also , on large aircraft , once you 're in the air in level flight and if you 're so inclined , you can work out your weight by using your fuel flow , pressure altitude , and airspeed . Then with the weight and your trim setting you can come up with your c.g. I would guess that most of the glass cockpit aircraft probably do that for you automatically if you request it . My experience stopped with the 747-200 , which is now a near relic . The c.g. limits are defined conservatively , and usually in terms of the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord . It 's not a case of that if the aft c.g. limit is 33 % mac ( a common value for 747s ) and you 're at 33.1 % you 're going to crash . It 's just a case that you 're beginning to move into an area that gives you a lesser degree of controllability than is deemed necessary for some situations . Continued movement to an extreme value would eventually make the aircraft uncontrollable . Insofar as the bags-left-behind part of the question , I do n't think their absence would cause a problem . If the computed c.g. including the bags was right right up against the aft c.g. limit , their absence could conceivably put the c.g. beyond the aft limit . The pilots might notice it , but handling it would not be difficult . However , aircraft are typically not loaded such that their c.g. is close to a limit . A preferred aiming point for 747-100s , -200 s , and -400 s is 26.6 % mac . Just for the heck of it , I did a weight &amp; balance for a 747-400 , loading it so that the takeoff c.g. was 26.6 % mac . I then took 5000 lbs ( 100 bags x 50 lbs each ) out of the most forward baggage area . This changed the the c.g. to 28.0 % mac , still within limits . On the 747 , a given weight of baggage misplacement has less potential to affect the c.g. than the same weight of passenger misplacement because the passenger seating extends over 20 feet forward of the most forward baggage compartment and over 17 feet aft of the most aft baggage compartment .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
end question
start question
Why is UTC activation time referred to 30W in NAT-OTS ?
Think of 30W as a kind of traffic marker for flight planning . If your planned route is going to cross 30W before the tracks activate ( that is , ahead of the traffic flow ) , then you can file " random route . " If you 're crossing 30W during the active period , then you have to file on one of the tracks unless you can climb above them before crossing the entry fix . This also works going against the flow : if you 're crossing 30W in the opposite direction during the active period , you 'll have to route either north or south of the tracks unless you can get above the NAT FL 's before your entry fix . As far as Zulu goes , it 's just the common reference everyone uses ( therefore , " Universal Coordinated Time " ) .
The correct answer may differ for each pair ( airline , airport ) and can be found in the contract that they mutually agreed upon . Such contracts are mostly seen as a business secret , and most of their contents are not known to the general public . As far as I know , both parties agree to do their best to keep everything working during every weather . Which means that there has to be enough equipment to clear a runway really quick , such that these " penalties " are " background noise " in the overall bill , even compared to the penalties caused by other reasons . The airport may decide not to bill the airline most of these penalties , as long as the airline wo n't try to bill every loss caused by the airport 's fault . As a rule of thumb , you do n't upset your business partners like that over peanuts , more so if claims go both ways . They may even have agreed on how many minutes delay wo n't be billed . Yet , this partnership may be put to the test when one of the partners is seen as cutting cost at the expense of the other , or when one really unexpected condition occurs ( like that volcano on Iceland , which disrupted air traffic in central Europe for two weeks or more ) .
Yes , since the ILS is just a set of radio signals emitted and received by aircraft , there can be more than one aircraft established on localizer and glidepath . The ILS does not lock or tune onto one single aircraft , it continuously broadcasts the localizer and glidepath signal . Since the localizer and glidepath antennas are located at the end of runway for the localizer and at the side of the runway for the glidepath , you will only need to worry about interference by aircraft on the ground , where they are close to the antennas and can deflect the signal due to proximity . This is why there are protection areas and aircraft need to hold at certain holding points , e.g. CAT II holding points when CAT II approaches are in use . Aircraft in the air can also interfere and deflect the signal , however the emitted signals spread in a cone , so other aircraft still can receive the correct signals . To quote <URL> from one of the comments : [ ... ] basically , the localizer is projected from the far end of the runway , and the glideslope is projected from the side of the runway at or near the touchdown target . Thus , aircraft in line to touch down on the ideal target will have good line-of-sight to both transmitter pairs ( unless there 's an aircraft in the ILS Critical Area ) <URL> ( Image Source : www.aopa.org ) ( Image Source : <URL> ( found via <URL> ) ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
Simplicity . Yes , a servo tab is helpful , but most control surfaces should include a trim tab , so this can double as a servo tab . Total part count should still be lower than that for a stabilizer-elevator combination . But there are other advantages : Easier adjustment of stick forces and little loss of stability with free-floating controls . By hinging the stabilator ( or full-flying tail ) near the quarter point , its control forces can be kept small and tailored with the servo tab . Also , this helps to keep the hinge moment coefficient derivative over angle of attack $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ low . The ratio between it and the derivative over deflection angle $ \ eta $ determines the angle to which the control surface will float , and a small $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ means that the stability with a floating control surface will be close to the stability with a fixed surface . Also , balancing masses are easier to place when the full surface moves .
Adding to what the others have mentioned , bad weather is often a combination of low visibility , low ceilings , precipitation , high winds and lightning . Visibility and ceilings As mentioned in @fooot 's answer , ILS is available to land when in these conditions . Every airliner and crew ( and just about every airport they 'd go into ) is trained and equipped for ILS operations . A standard ILS approach is good in weather down to 200 ft ceilings and 1800 or 2400 ft visibility along the runway ( RVR ) . Further airplane and airport equipment and aircrew training can allow ILS category II and III operations , which reduce these numbers ( cat II is 100 ft vertical visibility and RVR 1200 , cat III goes down to essentially no visibility ) . To takeoff , a 2 engined airliner needs 5000 ft RVR ( 1 mile vis ) normally . Airport lighting and airline opspecs can reduce this as low as RVR 300 . Wind High winds are fine , but can make the landing more challenging . When the winds are strong and particularly gusty , a lower flap setting can be used to land and a faster approach speed flown . This will , however , necessitate a long landing rollout . Exceptional crosswinds can also present problems aligning the aircraft with the runway , and if you ca n't line up , you ca n't land ( note that some larger airplanes can land in a crab and do not need to align with the runway until the main gear are on the ground ) . Runway condition You mention the wheels are not powered , and this is true . However , the friction between the runway and the contact patch on the tire is the only thing keeping the airplane on the runway in strong crosswinds , so you need friction to land ( or takeoff ) if there is a crosswind component . Anything reducing friction is problematic ( rain , snow , ice , rubber , etc ) , With high water you risk hydroplaning and this ( or snow/ice ) can lead to departures from the runway sides or an overrun if braking action is insufficient due to lack of friction . Ice needs to be chemically treated and snow must either be treated or plowed at regular intervals ( while it is snowing ) . Ground handlers at the airport must also have deice fluid and the equipment to apply it to aircraft available for operations in snow . Lightning When lightning is in the vicinity , ground crews go inside as it is a deadly hazard to be on the ramp in those conditions . Summary All of these things contribute to lowered arrival rates into the airport and as conditions deteriorate you reach a point where you are spending more time dealing with keeping the airport open than departing airplanes and it makes sense to close the airport temporarily .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
The simplest answer to your question is that the F-16 has not yet been retired because , for its cost , there 's nothing better being built in enough numbers to replace the nearly 4500 Falcons produced . The F-16 was designed on the trailing edge of a surge in technological development by the U.S. military in the wake of Vietnam . The U.S. had fought that war with an air force primarily designed for a standoff engagement with the Soviet Union directly , thus emphasizing interceptor-style fighters targeting bombers at extreme range using missiles . Robert McNamara , U.S. SecDef for the Johnson and Nixon administrations , also emphasized a " one-size-fits-all " approach to aircraft design , requiring the USAF and Navy to collaborate on common aircraft designs that covered a multitude of mission profiles . This created the F-4 , a fast but heavy plane that was a handful to fly , weaknesses that were exploited by pilots of technologically-inferior MiG-19 and MiG-21 aircraft in close combat engagements that the Phantom was ill-prepared to fight . The lesson " dogfighting is n't dead " prompted a renaissance in jet fighter design in the 70s , producing the F-14 and F-15 long-range air superiority fighters , and the smaller F-16 and F/A -18 multirole fighters . Maneuverability , a wide range of weapons from guns to long-range missiles , and high pilot situational awareness by reducing workload and integrating flight and fire control systems , were all emphasized strongly . The Soviets were taken somewhat by surprise at this surge ; as of when the F-16 first flew , the Soviet air force and those of its allies had nothing that could compete . They answered a few years later with the MiG-29 , a smaller twin-engine design similar to the larger Su-27 which was in pre-production to answer the F-15 . These six fighters - F-14 , F-15 , F-16 , F/A -18 , MiG-29 and Su-27 - represented the cutting edge of fighter design as of the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . The new U.S. designs to enter production since , the F-22 Raptor and F-35 Lightning II , are themselves fairly old ; the first production F-22 was built in in 1996 and flew in 1997 , almost 20 years ago , the result of a design competition with planes flying back in 1990 , and the initial RFP originating in the 1980s . The F-35 first flew in 2006 , itself derived from the X-35 JSF testbed which first flew in 2000 , so that design is between 10 and 15 years old now depending on how you count . Their protracted development times are a direct result of the reduction in pace of the U.S.-Russian arms race since 1991 ; with no other technologically-advanced military adversary on the horizon , there simply has n't been the impetus to get these planes out to the front lines ( there is some civilian talk of restarting the F-22 production line to bolster Raptor numbers , as the Sukhoi PAK-FA and Chengdu J-20 are very close to production and the F-35 is way behind projections and proving a disappointment so far , but another 100 new Raptors are projected to cost a ludicrous $ 225 million each due to increased costs of restarting the line and producing them in parallel with the F-35 ) . The F-35 also had the handicap of being a return to the " one-size-fits-all " design mentality , being intended as a replacement for practically everything besides the Raptor in the U.S. air arsenal , Air Force , Navy and Marines , with an F or A in its designation . That 's caused a lot of technological headaches , since any replacement for the Marines ' AV-8B Harrier is going to need STOVL capability , and the Navy and Air Force have always had a different though overlapping set of requirements relating to the Navy 's basic need to operate aircraft from a ship at sea that 's maybe a fifth as long as the USAF 's minimum runway length requirements for its airbases . The resulting design is big , heavy , and relies on the most powerful single engine the U.S. has ever put in a fighter , which pushes the boundaries of the stress limits of the materials we use to make jet engines . Lastly , military spending in the last 10 years or so has been preoccupied with developing and fielding technology to fight a low-tech insurgency ; our enemies know they ca n't beat us in a toe-to-toe fight , so they do n't fight that way , instead targeting our multi-million-dollar military hardware with Vietnam-era milsurp RPGs and oil-drum IEDs costing maybe $ 100 a shot . On this kind of battlefield , stealth air-superiority aircraft are kind of redundant as the enemy does n't even have radar , much less an air force to exercise superiority over . That 's why the F-22 has never seen real combat ; the U.S. has enjoyed " air supremacy " by default in its primary combat theaters , as its enemies have never fielded an air force to speak of .
Yes . You can , as long as you have the appropriate rating and are the sole manipulator of controls . From a <URL> : ... a private pilot may log pilot-in-command time , in a complex or high performance airplane , for those portions of the flight when he or she is the sole manipulator of the controls because the aircraft being operated is single-engine land and the private pilot holds a single-engine land rating . ... 14 CFR section 61.31 requires a person to have an endorsement from an authorized instructor before he or she may act as pilot in command of certain aircraft ( a complex airplane , a high performance airplane , a pressurized airplane capable of operating at high altitudes , or a tailwheel airplane ) . These endorsements are not required to log pilot-in-command time under 14 CFR section 61.51 ( e ) . ( emphasis mine ) Excerpt from <URL> : ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( iv ) When the pilot performs the duties of pilot in command while under the supervision of a qualified pilot in command provided -- ( A ) The pilot performing the duties of pilot in command holds a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate and aircraft rating that is appropriate to the category and class of aircraft being flown , if a class rating is appropriate
I do n't think many airline crew actually bother to log the day/night breakdown . At my airline we have different pay rates for day and night flying , so we do care , but the company " Electronic Logbook " tracks the day/night breakdown for us . The system is not 100 % accurate and we sometimes get paid more or less day or night then we actually fly in , but it tends to average out over the year . In the summer , polar routes can be as much as 15 hour flights of daylight , while the same route in the winter can be 15 hours of night flying . On some flights we will see the sun set , and then rise , and set again , as we chase the sun and our route changes from northwest bound to southwest bound . <URL> Here are some samples of summer/winter , day/night Toronto to Hong Kong flying in my eLog : <URL> <URL>
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
It is n't ( much ) . Ships are the most similar thing to aircraft that existed before them , so it made sense that aviation took over many terms and conventions from seafaring ( the pilot in command is called captain , the <URL> is the flight deck , distances and speeds are given in nautical miles and knots etc. ) However since there is no physical port in an aircraft to serve as reference ( most aircraft have doors on both sides ) , everybody has to learn to give the sides relative to the direction of flight and then it does not make sense to teach them new words when they already know " left " and " right " . So " port " and " starboard " are only used where there is a naval tradition . I know British military aviation ( RAF ) used it ( in wartime stories and documents it is common , but according to Simon 's comment it is not common any more ) and the US Navy uses it with ships , but I do n't know to what extent they apply it to aircraft . However , it remains popular in simulator games , presumably because it is catchy and unusual and using jargon makes people feel special .
787 On the 787 there is no activate/deactivate button for it . Yaw damping and turn coordination are always active as long as the flight controls law is in primary mode . In secondary or direct modes , yaw damping becomes degraded . Primary being the fly-by-wire 's fully functional mode . Source : 787 FCOM . MD-11 On an older generation plane , for example the MD-11 , there are buttons for the yaw damper , 4 in fact for the 4 channels , they are rarely used ( always on ) unless there 's a fault and after troubleshooting you want to take a channel out . <URL> ( <URL> ) Four yaw damper buttons on the MD-11 's overhead panel . 737 Next Generation On a 737 , after a flight is completed and the <URL> knobs are moved to the off position , the yaw damper switch automatically goes to the off position . I suspect the rationale back then ( carried over from earlier 737 variants ) was you ca n't have the switch on the " on position " and the fault light illuminated when there was no fault . ( The yaw damper needs a functioning <URL> , which needs input from the IRS . ) <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Yaw damper and IRS controls on the 737 overhead panel . Autopilot and yaw damper In most ( if not all ) planes that come with a yaw damper ( YD ) , engaging the autopilot ( A/P ) is not needed to enable the YD , i.e. , you can hand fly and still have the YD on , whether there 's a switch for it ( 737 ) or not ( 787 ) . In the MD-11 if all four channels failed , the A/P can only be used in cruise . So as you can see , you need the YD for the A/P in the MD-11 , not the other way around . Source : MD-11 QRH .
The screens are LCDs , which have a polarized filter layer over them . That layer is usually placed at a 45 ° so they are misaligned with your polarized sunglasses which are aligned vertically . You can confirm this is the problem by turning your sunglasses at different angles and see if the screen changes .
" Total time " is n't an officially defined term as far as I know . Most people seem to use it to mean " total flight time " , i.e. the total of their PIC , SIC and flight training time ( excluding simulator training ) . In general , you can log and count whatever you want in your logbook provided that you log at least the items required in 61.51 ( a ) : ( a ) Training time and aeronautical experience . Each person must document and record the following time in a manner acceptable to the Administrator : ( 1 ) Training and aeronautical experience used to meet the requirements for a certificate , rating , or flight review of this part . ( 2 ) The aeronautical experience required for meeting the recent flight experience requirements of this part . So , the bottom line is that " total time " is whatever you want it to be , and if you want to log ' fun time ' in aircraft that you are n't qualified to fly then go ahead ; the time just wo n't count for anything as far as the FAA is concerned . As for your two scenarios : You ca n't log any ' FAA time ' because you 're not certified to fly the aircraft as PIC or SIC , and you are n't receiving training . You might note it in your logbook for your own reasons but you ca n't count it towards anything for the FAA 's purposes . The passenger is n't certified and therefore can not act as PIC ; even if he 's physically moving the controls , you 're still PIC .
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
Its a bit dated but here is a <URL> . Keep in mind these are navy pilots , often considered the best of the best and in peek physical condition . Based on the publish year I would suspect all subjects were male as well . Here is <URL> on reaction times for pilots on low sleep . This is <URL> , might be of some help . An additional question I have related to this is , how can one design an aircraft to make it difficult for pilots to enter PIO 's ? This is an interesting question and in some regards could be its own question here . One of the big debates ( mainly between Boeing and Airbus ) is if systems like this should exist and who has the final say in terms of control deflection . Airbus takes the approach that the computers should prevent the pilot of say pulling back on the stick and stalling the plane . While Boeing generally allows pilots to be the final say and while their systems will warn of a stall you can ultimately pill back the column until the plane stalls . In terms of how you would design something like this you would have to limit control input after an approach to oscillation was detected .
I attended the ACS webinar on June 25th . This is the response from Christopher Morris at the FAA . You can also read the <URL> on the FAA website . If the pilot recognizes the stall warning and promptly makes an appropriate correction or airspeed adjustment , a momentary activation of the stall warning horn does not constitute unsatisfactory performance on the maneuver . As with other standards , the problem would arise from continual deviation from the standard , lack of correction , and/or lack of acknowledgment . The goal is to ensure that the applicant does not perform the maneuver with the stall warning activated . The certification standard in 23.207 states for airplane certification testing , the stall warning must " begin at a speed exceeding the stalling speed by a margin of not less than 5 knots and must continue until the stall occurs . " This is the primary reason the suggested range above stall speed has moved from " 3-5 knots " to " 5-10 knots without stall warning activation . " The certification standard for the stall warning does play a role in the airspeed selection for the maneuver , and stall warning activation will vary from one airplane to the next , so it is important for the applicant to select an airspeed where the stall warning should not activate except on a momentary basis ( e.g. , due to turbulence ) . The PTS standard for maneuvering during slow flight was for the applicant to establish and maintain " an airspeed at which any further increase in angle of attack , increase in load factor , or reduction in power , would result in an immediate stall . " The current version of the Airplane Flying Handbook says slow flight should be performed at " the slowest airspeed at which the airplane is capable of maintaining controlled flight without indications of a stall -- usually 3 to 5 knots above stalling speed . " The guidance has always intended for there not to be a stall warning , and that is consistent with slow flight guidance published in AC 120-111 . However , the 3-5 knot range given does not pair well with the part 23 requirement for a stall warning ( § 23.207 ) . It is not practical to maneuver in that airspeed range and not have the stall warning , which is an indication of a stall . The standard in the PTS also implies being right above the critical AOA , which means the stall warning would be activated . This result does not align with the guidance , or with what the FAA advocates . Specifically , the FAA does not advocate intentional disregard for a stall warning while maneuvering . The purpose of teaching slow flight is to ensure that the pilot understands how the airplane responds with less airflow over the flight control surfaces . Since airplanes are operated at low airspeeds and high angles of attack during the takeoff/departure and approach/landing phases of flight , it is essential for pilots to learn the airplane cues and how to operate the airplane in this state . Regardless of airplane type , a pilot does not need to be just below the critical AOA to experience the desired characteristics and achieve the slow flight objectives . These objectives can be accomplished without deliberately activing the stall warning through flight just below the critical AOA . We want to influence the behavior and practices the pilot will follow outside the training environment . Therefore , with the exception of performing a full stall maneuver , a pilot should always perform the stall recovery procedure when the stall warning is activated . With respect to guidance , the change to AC 61-67 published just prior to the final decision on the AFH wording change , which drove the FAA 's decision to modify this ACS Task element . We are working on another change to ensure the AC will align with the AFH and the ACS and be consistent with AC 120-111 . To further explain these changes , we intend to publish a SAFO that is now in formal coordination . Teaching what an airplane will do at the critical AOA is part of stall training and should be addressed in that context . You allow someone to ' ignore ' the warning in one narrow instance -- as part of stall training . The pilot can still learn what happens at that point -- but as part of stall training and learning the proper recoveries -- not as part of slow flight .
<URL> describes considerations for choosing sunglasses for pilots . Since the document concludes , that Polarized sunglasses are not recommended I presume there is no rule that would explicitly forbid it . However there is always the " operate aircraft careless and reckless manner " paragraph and if you badly screwed up while wearing such sunglasses and there was grounded belief that some of the disadvantages of such sunglasses contributed to the incident , you could be charged with that . The document quotes following reasons why they are not recommended : may reduce or eliminate visibility of instruments with polarization-based anti-glare filters , may reduce or eliminate visibility of LCD instruments ( LCDs emit polarized light by design ) , may interfere with visibility through an aircraft windscreen by enhancing striations in laminated materials , may mask the sparkle of light that reflects off shiny surfaces such as another aircraft 's wing or windscreen , which can reduce the time a pilot has to react in a " see-and-avoid " traffic situation . Even if your plane does not have any instruments with polarization filters and no issues with striations in laminated windshield , filtering reflections from other aircraft is definitely not what you want . Note that in most other situations , filtering reflections ( from water , cars , metal roofs etc. ) is desirable and is why polarized glasses exist , because reflections from close objects can be blinding . But in aircraft you are far from the sources of reflection , so the risk of blinding reflection is low , while the reflections can alert you to presence of other aircraft that might otherwise be hard to spot when looking towards the sun .
On top of <URL> above , I 'd like to add that there are also different requirements for the content ( at least in europe ) : The life-vest demo is only required if extended portions of the flight are over water and/or climb and approach routes lead over water . The safety demo has to be finished before take-off . I remember quite a number of flights where we had to wait at the holding point because the cabin was not yet ready .
<URL> . The UK has some very strange ideas about Radio , which bear no resemblance to the reality of physics and how radio actually works . Foremost among those ideas is the idea that you are only legally allowed to listen to transmissions intended for " general reception " : The services that can be listened to under the definition of general reception are : licensed broadcasting stations ; amateur and citizens ' band radio transmissions ; and weather and navigation transmissions Radio scanners should not be used to listen to any other radio services , including illegal radio stations ( pirates ) ( by virtue of the fact that they are not licensed radio stations ) . Aviation-band transmissions are not on Ofcom 's list , so even though they are broadcast entirely " in the clear " and anyone with an appropriately tuned AM receiver could hear them you are legally prohibited from listening to them . Providing feeds to LiveATC would also appear to be a violation , though it 's not clear to me that listening to LiveATC streams would put the listener in violation of the law . From the same Ofcom site : ... it is illegal to listen to anything other than general reception transmissions unless you are either a licensed user of the frequencies in question or have been specifically authorised to do so by a designated person . and ... it is also illegal to tell a third party what has been heard in a transmission a person has listened to illegally . So anyone providing UK aviation band transmissions to LiveATC may be in violation of both of those laws , but I 'm not certain what that means for LiveATC listeners ( that would be a question to ask Ofcom ) .
end question
start question
In a slip or skid , how does one wing have a higher angle of attack and more lift ?
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
Indeed , the aspect ratio is defined as you describe . It is a way to define how slender the wing is for a given wing area , which is the main parameter in determining how to generate enough lift to keep the aircraft aloft . An area is two-dimensional , and a broadly rectangular shape like a wing area is defined by the length and the breadth of it : span and chord . Aspect ratio describes the proportions of span and chord : a short stubby wing , or a long and slender one ? This is one of the main parameters in how much drag the wing creates : a long slender wing minimises one particular form of aerodynamic drag , called induced drag . <URL> <URL> But a wing is a cantilever beam , subjected to aerodynamic lift . The lift forces bend the wing upwards , and the wing structure must produce internal forces that cancel out the aerodynamic lift . In a hollow cantilever beam like a wing , the skin mainly does that : the upper skin resists compression , and the lower skin resists tension . The further away the upper and lower skin are , the lower the stresses . A structural engineer wants to give as much distance between the plates as possible : he wants the wing to be very thick , in order for it to be light in weight . But again aerodynamics puts a limit to this : a very thick wing would create too much form drag , so the structures people are given the maximum distance that the aerodynamics can support . Wing thickness affects aspect ratio in defining the maximum AR that can be achieved . The wing thickness is not part of the induced drag , and does not appear in the definition of the aspect ratio . It is an important defining parameter in wing weight and other forms of drag .
It both increases and decreases , depending on the local direction of the propellor ( e.g. on the upgoing side , or the downgoing side ) . See for example this <URL> . This thesis shows the following image : Simply said , the velocity of the propellor locally changes the angle of attack , and thus the lift generated by the wing . It is interesting to know that it is possible to locally optimize the shape of the wing to take advantage of this effect . Again the thesis shows the result , and it looks like this : If you look closely , you can see that the wing is changed at the propellor location to accomodate the adjusted flow .
The two main reasons for wings with a subsonic leading edge are : The lower lift coefficient in supersonic flight , and the need to keep wing thickness down in order to minimize wave drag in supersonic flight . Your observation is correct : The lift-related drag coefficient is proportional to the inverse of the aspect ratio , regardless of flight regime for slender bodies . In all cases , lift is created by accelerating air downwards , and efficiency is better when <URL> . But another factor is the lift coefficient , the square of it to be precise . Again this influence on drag is equal for sub - and supersonic flight , but the magnitude of the lift coefficient is n't . Take the XB-70 , for example ( <URL> ) : Cruise lift coefficient : 0.1 to 0.13 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.01 to 0.0169 Takeoff lift coefficient : 1.3 to 0.73 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 1.69 to 0.533 Landing lift coefficient : 0.626 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.392 Even at the highest supersonic cruise lift coefficient , the approximated lift-dependent drag coefficient is only 4.3 % of what it is at landing speed . Supersonic drag is dominated by pressure and friction , and the cost of lift creation is dwarfed by the other sources of drag . Or let 's look at another aircraft designed for sustained supersonic flight , or more specific , it 's flight envelope ( <URL> ) : <URL> The aircraft operates in a narrow band of dynamic pressures , trading density for speed to stay within a corridor of 310 KIAS to 450 KIAS when flying at supersonic speed . Here the lift coefficient is roughly between 0.1 and 0.3 ( depending on aircraft mass and load factor ) and again much lower than at low speed , where minimum speed drops to 145 KIAS . Note that the lift wave drag formula for slender bodies is only strictly true for $ AR$ approaching zero . At higher aspect ratios and especially with a supersonic leading edge this relationship is diminished . In supersonic flow the aspect ratio only comes into play by influencing the part of the wing that is within the Mach cone of the wingtip . In other words : The supersonic flow around a slender body is everywhere influenced by tip effects , whereas the inner and forward part of a higher aspect ratio wing experiences two-dimensional flow , being blissfully unaware of lateral limitations to wingspan . Now to the structural factor : Wave drag has two components , one from lift and the other from the displacement effect . <URL> at <URL> must be avoided as much as possible , because it is doubly punished : Surfaces facing in flight direction experience higher pressure than ambient , and those facing backwards experience lower pressure ( i.e. suction ) . In all , zero-lift wave drag increases with the square of the thickness ratio , so there is no space in supersonic wings for the beefy spar a high aspect ratio wing would require .
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
What , you dislike the fact that the NOTAM about patchy ice is patchy in its detail ? :) Generally if you need more information about a NOTAM ( in the US ) you can check with : Flight Service While collecting your briefing ask if they have any more detail -- sometimes they do , sometimes they do n't , but it 's worth asking . A local FBO Particularly for NOTAMs - A local FBO will usually know the condition of the field , and often have other useful info for you ( like how much a heated hangar is going to cost you for the night ) . Airport Operations Again , particularly for NOTAMs - These guys will usually have a pretty good picture of the field 's condition , since they 're generally the poor shmucks responsible for doing the snow/ice clearing . Failing all of those , you can also call the tower phone number at a towered field ( you can get that number from Flight Service too ) and ask them for details . I usually make the tower my last resort call - they 're almost certainly going to be willing to give you as much information as they can , but they 're also busy doing other stuff like dealing with planes taking off/landing/taxiing around &amp; they 'd probably appreciate if we tried the other sources first . The other folks I mentioned generally have someone sitting around to answer phones and questions . In the case of Flight Service , that 's basically their job :-)
Long story short is that both Newton 's third law and the Bernoulli 's effect are two different ways of explaining the same phenomena . Accurate equations have been written to explain both . Newton 's third law , the air being forced down and forcing the airplane up , is actually the effect of lift though not the cause . The cause of lift is the change in pressure . The falsehood that is taught is usually that the two little air particles actually meet up at the same point downstream at the trailing edge of the wing at the same time . This is completely false . In fact , if you were to actually track two air particles , one over the top , and one across the bottom , the one going over the top of the wing will probably arrive much sooner than the one on the bottom ! [ Even though the distance IS longer ] It picks up that much speed . Also they do n't actually really meetup again afterwards at all . The real pivotal relation ( which I learned in my Advanced Aerodynamics class at ERAU using John . D. Anderson 's book <URL> ) is the Kutta-Joukowsky theorem . Taking the time to explain this to a Private Pilot student would probably be a waste of your time and theirs but I will sum it up here anyway to be fair to the question . I will assume incompressible flow because after about Mach .3 < it starts to get more complicated . The Kutta-Joukowsky theorem takes the integral of velocity times the cosine of the incremental angle of the distance along the closed curve . This is a quantity called circulation . The lift equation is then formed as lift equals density ( altitude basically ) times velocity times circulation . So if you really want get in-depth here is an <URL> that explains potential flow theory . What you will find is that the cause of lift is indeed directly related to Bernoulli 's principle in that the change in pressure is what creates the lift . However it has nothing to do with particles meeting up at the trailing edge because they never really do meet up . This does n't discount Newton 's third law either : lift can be explained that way but it is the effect of lift , not the actual cause . And yes , like you mentioned , even a flat-plate for example can create lift when angled right in a wind tunnel .
Unless you tell us which book you read this in ( and what exactly it said ) , it is not possible to answer your question ( the answer depends on whether the zero angle of attack is that of the airframe or the airfoil ( wing ) ) . We can try for a general answer though . As far as angle of attack is concerned , there are two kinds - geometric and absolute . First , angle of attack is the angle between some reference line and the freestream ( i.e. the velocity vector ) . The selection of reference line determines the ' kind ' of angle of attack . Geometric angle of attack , $ \ alpha $ is the angle between the chord and freestream ; this is the one usually used . Absolute angle of attack , $ \ alpha_a $ is the angle between the freestream and the zero lift line ( the line , which when parallel to the freestream , produces no lift in the wing ) . The geometric and absolute angles of attack can be related through $ \ alpha_a = \ alpha - \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ , where $ \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ is the angle between the chord and zero lift line . <URL> Relation between geometric and absolute angles of attack , image from <URL> For a cambered airfoil , the zero lift line is negative i.e. the airfoil will produce lift even when the geometric angle of attack is zero ( in this condition , the absolute angle of attack is positive ) . For a symmetric airfoil , of course , the zero lift line coincides with the chord and as such , the airfoil produces no lift when the geometric ( or absolute ) angle of attack is zero . As far as the lift is concerned , what matters is the absolute angle of attack , while we usually use the geometric one . Simply put , what matters is the absolute angle of attack of the wing . If this value is positive , lift will be produced and level flight is possible , whatever the aircraft attitude .
Flameout basically means that the flame in the combustion chamber has been extinguished . A jet engine compresses air , then adds fuel and ignites it . So , it needs three things to function correctly - fuel , air ( oxygen ) , and the heat to make them burn . <URL> . It can happen for a number of reasons : fuel starvation - <URL> suffered flameout ( due to wrong amount of fuel being put ) and had to be landed like a glider . Compressor stall ( or surge ) - The disruption of airflow due to compressor stall can cause an engine flameout . Ingestion of foreign objects - <URL> suffered flameouts in all four engines due to ingestion of volcanic ash Firing of armament - Early in its service A-10 Warthog suffered flameouts due to the engines ingesting the gassed generated while firing the GAU-8 Avenger . Early jet engines ( like the Jumo 004B ) had <URL> ; however , modern jet engine flame outs are very rare , at the rate of about one every 100,000 non military flights . In most cases of flameout , the <URL> for resumption of flight . <URL> mentions a case where flameout happened because a F-100 ingested fuel ( during aerial refueling ) ; however , such occurrences are quite rare .
Yes it can , albeit at the cost of some added weight . By using reinforced bulkheads , the bending loads can be transferred into the bulkheads which leaves the center section free of structure . That is how large engines and their intake ducts can be placed where normally the spar would go . A classical example is the Lockheed F-104 Starfighter . <URL> Lockheed F-104 Starfighter cut-away drawing ( picture <URL> ) . Using bracing like on the Mini-MAX reduces stresses in the carry-through , but does not remove the need for something to keep the wings apart . In other words , the compression member of the wing spar is still required to transverse the fuselage where the wings are attached . Also , at high angle of attack the wing produces substantial nose thrust which could fold the wings forward were it not for a second compression strut at the wing nose . <URL> Mini-MAX 1100 ( picture <URL> ) In case of the Cri-Cri , which is a low wing design , the pilot sits on top of the spar . Moving the wing up to a mid position would create a much heavier aircraft and would require a wider fuselage , too . <URL> Colomban Cri-Cri ( picture <URL> )
My experience transitioning from airplanes to helicopters and then to gliders is that I never forget what I 'm flying . I know that sounds obvious , but its no different than the difference between driving a car with automatic transmission and manual , riding a motorcycle which has all the controls in a different place than a car and <URL> , and flying an airplane . I do n't reach for the throttle when I want to slow down in a car , and I do n't turn the wheel in the direction of the turn when I 'm riding a motorcycle . Similarly , when taking off in an airplane , I know I have to add power and pull back a bit to get it off the ground , and in a helicopter I inch the nose forward to gain <URL> . The reason I do n't act/react improperly when flying different aircraft is that it 's all been trained into my muscle memory to do the right thing depending on the circumstances . I do n't think of the horn in a helicopter as a stall horn , just like the buzzer in my alarm clock and smoke alarm are not stall horns . The horn in the heli is a low-rpm horn , and I ease the stick back not forward . Another complication is instrument flight . Although I am an instrument rated airplane pilot , I have a little hood time in a helicopter . I 'm so used to flying pitch and power against the AI that all my instincts under the hood in the heli were completely wrong . Nevertheless , I do n't think I 'll ultimately have any trouble flying instruments well in a heli .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
I do n't know about a " long history " , but the Australian aviation authorities ( Jabiru is an Australian company ) did introduce <URL> because of what they considered to be a high rate of engine failures . Note that Jabiru makes their own engines , unlike most other aircraft manufacturers , and as well as using them in their own aircraft they sell them for use in <URL> . <URL> mentioned 45 incidents in one year : These precautionary limitations follow a high number of Jabiru engine failures and power loss incidents , some of which resulted in aircraft forced landings . More than 45 Jabiru engine failures or in-flight engine incidents have been reported in 2014 , with CASA recently becoming aware of incidents in previous years . Problems with Jabiru engines include failures of through bolts , flywheel bolts and valve train assemblies , as well as cylinder cracking . The failures affect a range of Jabiru engine models and have occurred in aircraft used in different flying activities , although many have been reported in aircraft used for flying training . By itself , the number 45 does n't mean much without considering more information about the number of aircraft , the number of hours flown , maintenance performed etc. and Wikipedia says that Jabiru did n't agree with CASA 's decision ( which is n't surprising ) . But presumably CASA did think about those things and still decided that there should be restrictions in place .
First it is beneficial to have an idea how the <URL> . With <URL> , the suction peak on the upper side is already well developed at smaller angles of attack , so the surrounding air will be accelerated towards that low pressure area . Now you need to extend that mental picture to 3D . The inner wing has those flaps deployed and , consequently , a suction peak near the leading edge and low pressure on the whole upper side . This will also suck in air from the side . As a consequence , the flow moving towards the outer wing will see a similar upward acceleration as does the flow streaming towards the inner wing , plus a sideways acceleration . This acceleration increases the local angle of attack at the leading edge of both wing sections . If the outer wing was already close to its stall angle of attack before the flaps were lowered , now the increased angle of attack will push the flow beyond the stall condition . The geometrical angle of attack ( measured as the angle between the flow direction at infinity and the reference length of the airfoil ) did not change . The " real " angle of attack as experienced by the outer wing , however , will produce a flow similar to what would normally only be experienced at a higher geometrical angle of attack . This moves the outer wing into the stall region when the inner wing still works in the linear realm . This can lead to asymmetric stalls which produce a strong and sudden rolling moment , and at low altitude that is the last thing you need while lining up with the runway . Adding <URL> will move the stall angle of attack up a few degrees , and now it will again be the inner wing which stalls first , as it should .
Well , I have two answers for you - one personal , and one practical : Personally , as a pilot ( and very occasional airline passenger ) I think anyone operating a drone should be required to get a pilot 's license of some kind . Maybe I 'm just grumpy , but I spent a lot of time cramming the skills and knowledge into my brain that are required to safely operate in the US National Airspace System . It can get pretty complicated and crowded up there , and I think we need the operators of unmanned aircraft to have a thorough understanding of that . The last thing anyone wants is a UAV smacking into a plane because it wandered somewhere it should n't be PRACTICALLY though , it remains to be seen what regulations the FAA will impose for unmanned civil aircraft - they may require a pilot 's certificate ( speculating : In the category and class equivalent to the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle you 'll be operating ) , or they may require a " remote operator 's certificate " of some kind ( perhaps with special emphasis on remote-operation-specific issues like command uplink delay ) , or they may not impose a requirement at all and treat them like model aircraft until the first accident involving one of these things causes a public outcry . <URL> , until the FAA issues a NPRM telling us what they 're thinking of doing here we really wo n't know - your guesses are as good as ours right now . I would suggest at least an Private Pilot Ground School course while you 're gearing up though -- and I would suggest it even if the FAA decides no license is requried for being a UAV operator . The airspace , chart reading , flight planning , and ATC portions of the course are something you 'll probably want to be familiar with ( and are broadly applicable across all kinds of aviation ) , and a good ground school course usually is n't that expensive . ( As to whether you take the knowledge test at the end of the course , that 's up to you -- the results are good for 2 years in case you decide to pursue a pilot certificate , but the test you have to take as a UAV operator may wind up being different from the one you 'd have to take as a private pilot , or may not exist at all , so you might just be setting yourself up for having to take two tests . Again , at this stage your guess would be as good as mine here . )
I believe you are confusing the wing angle of attack with the pitch of the aircraft . Aircraft moving at a slow , near-stall speed , despite pointing the nose up , will still be traveling more or less horizontally . Their VSI instrument will read near zero . Whereas , if you take an aircraft moving quickly and pull the nose up to the same angle , the aircraft will , obviously , climb rapidly . Why does this matter ? The angle of attack is defined based on the wing 's motion through the relative wind . The wing 's orientation relative to the ground is n't involved in the definition in any way . When the aircraft as a whole is climbing , the relative wind is coming down from above . As a result the angle of attack is reduced , compared to what it would be if the plane were not climbing . Just to show some quick numbers , suppose you took an aircraft moving at 100 kts in still air and pulled the nose up so that you are now climbing at 3,000 FPM ( most aircraft will lose speed doing this , but the math is valid until the airplane slows down ) . $ 1knot \ approx100FPM $ , so you 'll now have an upward vector of 30 knots . Your 100 kt airspeed is now moving up at an angle . A little trigonometry : $ $ \ sin ( x ) = \ frac { 30 } { 100 } $ $ $ $ x = 17.46 ° $ $ So , your angle of attack is 17.46 degrees farther away from stalling when climbing at 3000FPM than it would be if your aircraft had the same pitch but was in level flight . However , few aircraft have the engine power to sustain a climb at this rate . The aircraft will bleed off speed , and as the speed bleeds off , the aircraft will slow , the climb rate will decrease , the aircraft 's velocity will become closer to horizontal , and , eventually , the aircraft will stall if the pitch is held constant .
It has to do with the local speed around the airfoil . In a canard configuration , the forward wing has to produce more lift per area than the main wing in order to have <URL> . This means the suction is more intense , and the pressure on the upper side of the airfoil right behind the leading edge is lower than on the main wing . Also , the angle of attack of the wing is higher , presenting a larger area to the oncoming flow . Large droplets of supercooled water will simply splash on the leading edge and freeze there instantly , causing clear icing . In a conventional aircraft the tail surface will provide very little lift , and in many cases even produces a <URL> . Now the main wing shows lower pressure on the forward part of the airfoil , just where ice collects the most . In the special case where the tailplane is in the wake of the wing , some of the water droplets will have frozen to the wing already and less water will be available to cause tailplane icing . The capacity of air to hold water depends not only on temperature , but also on pressure : The lower the pressure , <URL> . Condensed , super-cooled water , or liquid water hitting a cool surface , will form ice . Now you have both components needed for the explanation . Pitch stability is the explanation for the higher propensity of canard wings to collect ice than conventional tailplanes !
No , nothing addresses that case . Let 's say you 're 20 minutes out from your destination , and because it 's a clear VFR day you have minimum normal reserves -- roughly an hour of flying ( on 2 engines , at medium-to-low altitude ) . Those reserves are already prescribed for you by FAR 's . Now you lose the engine . How long can you fly ? Until you run out of fuel or the other engine quits -- so in all probability , about that same hour , plus or minus . Different case , you 're over at Atlantic heading to Bermuda or the Azores or Iceland or NYC to the Caribbean , or over the Gulf of Mexico -- not ETOPS but a long ways from anywhere . The fuel on board will be lots more , because you were planning for a much longer flight . ( And again , those fuel requirements are defined elsewhere . ) You now have the added twist of drifting down on one engine to a single-engine ceiling -- you set max continuous thrust on the good motor , and descend at a speed that gives you max range , which probably comes out to a few hundred feet per minute of descent . Back in the flight planning , the check had to be performed that at the worst case , you could lose the motor , drift down , and continue to reach a suitable airfield without needing more gas than you 'd have . But in something like a 737 , the gas you 'll have on-board anyway is almost certainly more than sufficient . But in this latter case , the time you can stay aloft is going to be hours -- way beyond what you had in the first case . So no , the regulations do n't prescribe a time that you have to be able to keep flying after losing one engine . You DO have to be able to keep flying -- that 's important -- and you have to have enough fuel to get to a destination with the one motor shut down . But in terms of a prescribed time , that is n't given in the FAR 's .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
The C-130 uses pressurized bleed air for leading-edge and window anti-ice . The props are deiced with electric heaters in the prop . <URL> The C-130 is very often used in places that experience icing . For example , the US Air Force flies the C-130 as a cargo/transport aircraft for Antarctic and Greenland operations : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How is minimum runway length related to V1 ?
Takeoff Field Length The " FAR " Takeoff Field Length determined from the FAA Approved Airplane Flight Manual ( AFM ) considers the most limiting of each of the following three criteria : 1 ) All-Engine Go Distance : 115 % of the actual distance required to accelerate , liftoff and reach a point 35 feet above the runway with all engines operating : 2 ) Engine-Out Accelerate-Go Distance : The distance required to accelerate with all engines operating , have one engine fail at $ V _ { EF } $ at least one second before $ V_1 $ , continue the takeoff , liftoff and reach a point 35 feet above the runway surface at $ V_2 $ speed : 3 ) Accelerate-Stop Distance : The distance required to accelerate with all engines operating , have an engine failure or some other event at $ V _ { EVENT } $ at least one second before $ V_1 $ , recognize the event , reconfigure for stopping and bring the airplane to a stop using maximum wheel braking with the speed brakes extended . $ V_1 $ Speed $ V_1 $ is the speed chosen by the manufacturer as " the pilot 's initiation of the first action to stop the airplane during the accelerate-stop tests . " Note that this is particularly important in that it is not a takeoff decision speed as some pilots like to think of it . The decision must have been made prior to $ V_1 $ so that there is time to react by $ V_1 $ . This speed is chosen by the manufacturer and must be between the engine failure speed1 and rotation speed . Within this range , they could choose any speed , but typically they choose the speed which gives a balanced field length ( see next section ) . There are also other factors to consider such as the maximum brake energy limit ( $ V _ { MBE } $ ) which will prevent $ V_1 $ from being too high . Balanced Field Length If we takeoff from a fixed length runway ( like , say one that matches the Takeoff Field Length from above ) , changing the $ V_1 $ speed will affect the weight that we can successfully continue the takeoff or abort within the available runway . At a particular weight , a lower $ V_1 $ will enable us to stop sooner if we abort but will take more distance to continue the takeoff . A higher $ V_1 $ will require more distance to stop but will take less distance to continue . If we graph these values , there will be a point where the $ V_1 $ speeds for the abort/continue lines meet , and this is known as the balanced field length . It is the value typically given in the AFM : This is nice because it gives the pilot one important number to remember instead of different stop/continue $ V_1 $ 's . If they were to choose an extremely low $ V_1 $ as in your question , then it would require considerably more runway in order to continue the takeoff than if it were higher , and it would not be balanced . Some AFM 's do include separate charts for accelerate-go and accelerate-stop though so you could figure out exactly how much runway that you would need if the engine failed at a lower airspeed . Rotation Speed $ V_R $ is determined independently from $ V_1 $ , and if it is ever less than $ V_1 $ then it must be raised to be equal to $ V_1 $ . References The regulatory information for takeoff performance on transport category aircraft is listed in <URL> , 25.101 - 25.113 . Of particular interest for this question would be <URL> and <URL> An easier to read document is the FAA 's <URL> which covers this and a lot more . Much of my answer was taken directly from this document , and I would highly recommend anyone that is flying a multi-engine aircraft to read the entire thing . 1 $ V _ { EF } $ itself must be above the minimum controllable airspeed on the ground plus acceleration while the pilot reacts to the engine failure .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
LIPE - OMDB is only around 4,500 KM ( 2,800 NM ) according to <URL> , which is nowhere close to the 773ER max range of 14,500 KM ( 7,830 NM ) , so one can make an educated guess that the aircraft was n't at MTOW .
I suspect that you 're thinking of <URL> that took effect from June 30th , 2010 . Before the change , a taxi clearance could indeed allow you to cross multiple runways , but now you can only be cleared to cross one runway at a time : This change establishes the requirement that an explicit runway crossing clearance be issued for each runway ( active/inactive or closed ) crossing and requires an aircraft/vehicle to have crossed the previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . At airports where the taxi route between runway centerlines is less than 1,000 feet apart , multiple runway crossings may be issued after receiving approval by the Terminal Services Director of Operations . It was a big change at the time ( according to what I 've read ) and it was widely publicized by the FAA and other organizations . The relevant ATC instructions are in the <URL> 3-7-2 : Aircraft/vehicles must receive a clearance for each runway their route crosses . An aircraft/vehicle must have crossed a previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . The orders have several examples and the corresponding phraseology .
These markings designate the hold-short point during different runway operations . Runway hold-short points are marked by white text on a red background . They designate a point which any aircraft must not cross without an explicit clearance from ATC . Note that in the below picture , there are two markings : <URL> Cat II or III ILS is used during low visibility operations . In the case of an auto-land , the autopilot literally lands the plane on the runway . To do this , the aircraft systems need a very precise signal from the ILS antenna . Any aircraft on the ground crossing the line of sight between the ILS antenna and the landing aircraft will interfere the signal , sending the landing plane off course . When a plane is landing on Cat II or III , other planes on the ground need to stay further back the runway . This has an undesirable side effect - the airport capacity is reduced . If somebody is doing a visual approach on a clear day , you can move a bit closer . <URL> is what happened to a Singapore Airlines Boeing 777 when it used auto-land without informing ATC . Since no one is aware they 're using auto-land , the standard hold-short procedure ( rather than the low visibility procedure ) applies . They drifted off the runway pretty much like a racecar !
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
The slope of a runway is n't always constant . In some cases , for example , if you stand at one end of the runway , you ca n't see the opposite end , because the runway goes up then down . In this case , the ICAO ( in the airport design manual ) computes the runway slope as follows : the runway is divided into four equal segments . The average slope of each segment is computed and the total slope follows this formula : [ ( slope of 1st quarter ) + 1.33 * ( slope of 2nd quarter ) + 2.33 * ( slope of 3rd quarter ) + 3.33 * ( slope of 4th quarter ) ] / 8 The runway slope has a greater influence when the aircraft has a greater speed . Therefore , the slope at the end of the runway is given a greater weight . In the case that you mention , if you walk from the west side of the runway to the east side of the runway , you will go up a little , then down , and end up at a lower altitude than when you started .
I believe the answer , at least in the US is 20 hours of flight time , plus however long a checkride takes . A sport pilot can carry a single passenger and the minimum requirements are outlined in <URL> : If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with [ ... ] Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges , Then you must log at least [ ... ] 20 hours of flight time , including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311 , If a sport pilot applicant logged exactly 20 hours , got signed off , and then passed their checkride on the first attempt ... they would be able to fly passengers as soon as they completed the checkride . That means , realistically , probably 21 to 21.5 hours .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
To answer the last part of your question , as ratchet freak said , the TCAS does n't warn the pilot when he should deploy landing gear . However , <URL> does . <URL> is " Unsafe Terrain Clearance With Landing Gear Not Down " . If the plane is less than 700ft ( based on the radio altimeter 's measure ) high and under mach .35 , there is an aural alert in the cockpit saying " Too low - gear " . The message is repeated until the situation is corrected . So the warning is based on the height and speed of the aircraft . Not on its distance to the airport .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
From the <URL> : CONTAMINATED RUNWAY − A runway is considered contaminated whenever standing water , ice , snow , slush , frost in any form , heavy rubber , or other substances are present . A runway is contaminated with respect to rubber deposits or other friction-degrading substances when the average friction value for any 500-foot segment of the runway within the ALD fails below the recommended minimum friction level and the average friction value in the adjacent 500-foot segments falls below the maintenance planning friction level . ( See also <URL> Thanks to <URL> . So this covers rubber and oil , but not debris . However , from searching the glossary there are no instances of the word " debris " in the document . Usually if debris or oil were noticed on a runway , ATC would close the runway ( issue a NOTAM ) and then use an alternate runway until the debris or oil were cleaned up . From a pilots perspective , if you notice debris on the runway just tell ATC ( provided you did n't hit it ) , and they will close the runway for a FOD ( foreign object debris ) check . My local airport does this usually twice a day or more , typically by running a car down the runway looking for debris .
Listen . Climbing aircraft need more thrust , so the noise they produce is related to their vertical speed . Since most excess performance is available at low speed , a slowly flying aircraft producing a lot of noise will most likely be climbing . Once you gain a little experience , the pitch of the engine and propeller sound of piston-engined aircraft will be a very good indicator of their thrust setting . This does n't work for gliders . Here you need to wait to be sure if they are climbing or descending . Only when you see that the glider flies with speed brakes extended you can be sure instantly that it is descending .
Preflight Planning Let 's say that you 're on approach to a remote airport to refuel , with 1-2 hours of fuel remaining in your aircraft . ... The nearest airport is 3-4 hours away ... First of all , it looks as if the pilot has already broken several regulations in order to end up in this situation . He either did n't file an alternate , or if he did then he did n't carry enough fuel to get to it ( and additional reserves as required ) . If the runway is closed for an extended period of time , there would likely have been a NOTAM stating that the runway would be closed . All of this sounds like poor preflight planning , and probably the ' ole careless and reckless thrown in for good measure . The Problem Contacting ATC to request permission to land , they tell you that the only runway is closed for an unspecified reason and will not reopen for ~ 2 hours . Okay , we need to figure out what the " unspecified reason " is because this can change things dramatically . <URL> Is it for endangered migrating turtles ? <URL> Is it for construction ? In any case , he needs to use all available resources . Talk to ATC and explain the situation . Ask them how they can help clear the runway so that we can land . He should tell them that an emergency is imminent without their assistance . They will do everything that they can to help you , including coordinating with people on the ground to get out of the way . Be creative . Did you know that there is no regulation ( in the US ) requiring you to land on an actual runway ? Ask them if you can land on the taxiway . For that matter , land in the grass beside the runway . It would be better than going for a swim or crashing after running out of gas ! Let 's presume the airport is surrounded by ocean , and the aircraft is not certified for ditching . Ummm , who cares if it is certified for ditching ? If you are over water , it does n't matter . If you are over land , it does n't matter . If you have a choice , pick land ( even if it 's off-airport ) . Supposing ATC refuse to reopen the runway , is the pilot permitted to land anyway ? Well , they would n't really do this unless there was a really good reason , mainly meaning that it would be dangerous for the aircraft to land there ( like in the second picture above ) . In this case , we ca n't really ignore ATC and land anyway until : Declaring the Emergency ... so you choose to hold , hoping the runway is soon reopened . After waiting a while , the runway is still not reopened , so you declare an emergency . At least our poor pilot did this right . Rather than blindly continuing to hold , he declared an emergency . Getting on the Ground Now we have a lot more latitude and options , and ATC is better able to help us because they can pretty much do whatever it takes to save the aircraft . This can change a " Sorry , there is nothing I can do . " into a " Cleared to land any runway or taxiway . " all on its own . They may throw in a " Landing at your own risk . " if there are still hazards , but that 's just to clear them of liability . Even if they still refuse , you can simply advise them of what you will be doing and go ahead and do it . Keep in mind however , that it may be better to scope out an off-airport landing site if the danger is so great that ATC wo n't allow you to land even under such dire circumstances . Remember , the pilot is the final authority for safe operation of the aircraft . Get on the ground and sort it out after the fact . ( Poor turtles ... ) In the end , just do what you can to stay alive , and preferably use the airplane again . There are going to be tons of questions and probably major legal battles . Someone will probably go after the pilot 's certificate . On the bright side , he will be around to actually see it happen though .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
In terms of safety , the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot made the decision to land on that runway . The corrective emphasis should be on determining why this mistake was made and taking whatever steps are necessary to prevent that mistake in the future . Especially in transport category airplanes , the crew should always calculate the required landing/rollout distance for the current landing weight , wind , atmospheric ( temperature/pressure ) and runway surface conditions , and this should be compared against the approach plate / airport diagram / A/FD . In most transport category airplanes this can all be computed by the FMS and it is standard procedure to do this on every single flight . The question of what to do after the key mistake is still valid , though . I would say it depends on when the pilot recognizes that the runway is too short . If recognized on approach , a simple go around is clearly called for and perfectly safe . Once the wheels touch the ground , the decision gets a lot more complicated . The pilot must choose whether to reject the landing or commit to it . If you recognize it as soon as you touch down , you would probably be able to apply takeoff power and get airborne again safely . Once you 've started to brake and decelerate , there will quickly come a point-of-no-return . Since you 're starting at high speed , you 're using up a lot of runway early in the landing rollout . Also note that in many airplanes it can take a significant amount of time to retract spoilers , stow thrust reversers , and spool the engines back up to takeoff thrust . You 'll be consuming a lot of runway during this time . ( At a constant 120 knots , you 'll use up 2,000 feet of runway in just 10 seconds . ) In my opinion it 's far better to commit to a landing . If I 'm going to overrun the runway , I 'd rather it happen at low speed . If you try to take off again and do n't make it , your overrun will be at much higher speed , and destructive energy in a crash is proportional to the square of your ground speed . So there 's a gray area ... you could attempt to take off again if you were dead certain you were going to make it . Otherwise , it 's most likely best to " cut your losses " and get the airplane as slow as possible when you run out of runway , in order to minimize damage &amp; injury . If you can get it down to , say , 30 or 40 knots , you 're likely to escape without any serious injuries ( the plane may take a bit of a beating , though , depending on what 's beyond the end of the runway ) . If you do it at 120 knots , all bets are off . And you did mention a specific runway with a cliff at the end ; obviously that would have to factor into the decision-making process . It may be that you simply realized your mistake too late and there is nothing you can do about it . This leads me back to the original point , which is that the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot decided to set up an approach to that runway . The best bet is to make sure that never happens . EDIT : After reading about the specific incident you referred to , it seems that the pilots simply mistook the airport itself for a different one with a longer runway . So it 's not necessarily that they failed to calculate their required landing distance ; rather they just landed at the wrong place . This is a different , but equally bad ( or worse ) mistake , discussed to some extent in the comments below .
I would argue that it is most important on takeoff . The reason is that most planes require more distance for takeoff than for landing ( partially due to higher weight ) . Also , it is generally easier to abort a takeoff than a landing ( when on the ground at least ) . Both landing and takeoff distance calculations are performed ( which should take slope into account ) to ensure that there is sufficient distance for the aircraft . However , in addition to aborting a takeoff being easier , more can go wrong in a landing . Windshear or improper approach settings can cause an airplane to touch down later or faster , which risks an overrun . During takeoff , the plane has until V1 ( takeoff decision speed ) to abort if any issues arise . However , this certainly depends on conditions . Aircraft condition , wind and runway surface condition can increase the distance needed for landing ( or aborting a takeoff ) . If reverse thrust is not available , there is a tailwind , and the runway is wet , that could change the situation .
For several reasons . First to protect the drogue from damage by scraping on the pavement second to prevent it from becoming snagged on nearby objects third to prevent metal components on the drogue from hitting and damaging the tail of the aircraft , and fourth to make it easier to taxi back to the ramp without the need for higher power setting to overcome the drag and prevent damage to the drogue from this jet blast . One downside to jettisoning the drogue at a lower speed ( < 40 kts ) is that it now creates a FOD hazard on the runway and requires a waiting cleanup crew to retrieve it before another recovery is possible .
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
end question
start question
What are the FAA regulations on lighting for ultralight vehicles ?
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
Unless the pilot has had their certificate revoked or suspended by the FAA for their medical condition or has failed an application for a medical certificate1 , they would probably be fine after seeing a physician . <URL> states that sport pilots using a driver 's license to satisfy medical requirements must : ( ii ) Have been found eligible for the issuance of at least a third-class airman medical certificate at the time of his or her most recent application ( if the person has applied for a medical certificate ) ; ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . If the holder has a valid US driver 's license , it would ( presumably ) be taken upon the certificate holder to have " reason to know " by virtue of having a checkup with a physician to check that this condition does not affect their ability to fly safely , especially if the person involved was in any sort of doubt as to their medical condition . However , if they have had a checkup with a physician that finds no particular issues , and that condition does not affect the validity of their driver 's license , they should be fine . 1 : By section ( ii ) , the pilot must still have a medical test and pass for at least a Class 3 medical certificate , if the FAA has revoked or found unsatisfactory their previous medical under a Class 1 or Class 2 certificate .
Depending on how much detail you want , you can read the <URL> , which is the most recent and highest-level ruling on general aviation flightsharing . The Supreme Court <URL> . Essentially , <URL> wanted to let pilots find passengers willing to share the costs of a flight . They emphasized repeatedly that all decisions about if and when to fly , the route to take etc. would be made by the pilot , not the passengers . The FAA said that by advertising for passengers , pilots would be <URL> , which makes it a commercial operation . There were plenty of arguments on both sides , but ultimately the courts decided that the FAA was acting consistently with previous decisions and regulations . Flytenow made three legal arguments , all of which were <URL> on appeal : Advertising for passengers is protected free speech under <URL> Private pilots ' <URL> under the Fourteenth Amendment are infringed if they ca n't share costs The FAA 's ruling was vague But if you read the <URL> , you can see that the court basically agreed with the FAA that protecting passengers justifies limiting what private pilots can do : The FAA 's distinction between pilots offering expense-sharing services on line to a wide audience and those offering expense-sharing services to a limited group is justified : holding out to the public creates the risk that unsuspecting passengers , under the impression that the service and its pilots lawfully offer common carriage , will contract with pilots who in fact lack the experience and credentials of commercial pilots . To put it even more simply , the basic difference between Uber and Flytenow is that the FAA believes that the general public can identify a bad driver , but not a bad pilot . That 's the fundamental reason for having commercial licenses , part 135 etc. .
It depends on the aircraft , but in general the answer is that there are no regulatory age limitations , and indeed we have many aircraft flying that are 50 + years old . A notable exception is the Robinson line of piston helicopters . <URL> , whichever comes first , at which point the entire airframe must be completely overhauled . Some of the airframes are indeed rebuilt , but some are also scrapped , depending on level of wear and corrosion . Since the airframe lifetime is in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH , it is governed by : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry .
Answer based on information found on-line . Related documentation : USAF <URL> C-130T <URL> Lockheed <URL> KC-130 <URL> KC-130J <URL> C-130 <URL> C-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) The KC-130 Hercules is the tanker variant of the C-130 Hercules . The cargo opening consists of a door , and a ramp which can be operated separately . The door is opened by rotating up and inwards the top panel . The ramp is opened by rotating down and outwards the lower panel ( source : <URL> ) KC-130 / C-130 have a <URL> at low speed . From the the C-130 flight manual : Door and loading ramp are operated at a speed of 150 KIAS , with flaps down at 50 % . Same conditions for flying with door and/or loading ramp open . Low speed adjustments : Reducing speed from 300 kt to 150 kt requires nose up trimming . The center of gravity may be adjusted by ballasting fuel in the tanks ( refueling tank and aircraft tanks ) . Opening the ramp will change the aerodynamic shape of the aircraft : The ramp will not be moved past the horizontal position ( only need for full down position is to load cargo on the ground ) . Moves the nose down . Balanced by some trim accordingly . If loads are dropped ( pallets , paratroopers ) or fuel is delivered , the center of gravity will roll back , with a significant nose-down tendency , and trimming will be required . Opening the door will be less of an issue as seen on the image below : The aircraft is near level . Above : KC-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) . Note that the attitude is not so far from level , in spite the door is open .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
According to <URL> , Air Traffic Organisation Policy , section 4-4-2 there are several requirements from both the FAA and FCC . The FAA requirements are ( paraphrased from the JO ) : Comply with FCC regulations ( remember that the FCC is responsible for radio communication technical regulations , not the FAA ) Get FAA approval " to avoid possible duplication or conflict with air − ground call signs assigned on a national basis to other aircraft operators " The FCC requirements are in <URL> ( not 87.115 as the JO says ) : ( a ) Aircraft station . Identify by one of the following means : ( 1 ) Aircraft radio station call sign . ( 2 ) The type of aircraft followed by the characters of the registration marking ( " N " number ) of the aircraft , omitting the prefix letter " N. " When communication is initiated by a ground station , an aircraft station may use the type of aircraft followed by the last three characters of the registration marking . Notwithstanding any other provision of this section , an aircraft being moved by maintenance personnel from one location in an airport to another location in that airport may be identified by a station identification consisting of the name of the company owning or operating the aircraft , followed by the word " Maintenance " and additional alphanumeric characters of the licensee 's choosing . ( 3 ) The FAA assigned radiotelephony designator of the aircraft operating organization followed by the flight identification number . ( 4 ) An aircraft identification approved by the FAA for use by aircraft stations participating in an organized flying activity of short duration . In other words , your call sign must be approved in advance by the FAA , otherwise you ca n't legally use it per FCC regulations . In reality , if you call up ATC as Little Piggy 27 you 'll either get a laugh and a " no , seriously ? " or - in the worst case - you 'll just annoy them . There are also military call signs in use but I know nothing about them . I do remember being in the pattern while an Air National Guard aircraft out of Memphis , TN was doing touch and goes using the call sign Elvis 1 . But I have no idea how that call sign was set up between the ANG and FAA .
<URL> Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System ( TCAS ) Compatibility With RVSM Operations : All aircraft . After March 31 , 2002 , unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator , if you operate an aircraft that is equipped with TCAS II in RVSM airspace , it must be a TCAS II that meets TSO C-119b ( Version 7.0 ) , or a later version . <URL> Effective January 1 , 2005 , any airplane you operate under this part must be equipped and operated according to the following table ... <URL> Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator , after December 31 , 1995 , no person may operate a turbine powered airplane that has a passenger seat configuration , excluding any pilot seat , of 10 to 30 seats unless it is equipped with an approved traffic alert and collision avoidance system . If a TCAS II system is installed , it must be capable of coordinating with TCAS units that meet TSO C-119 . <URL> Also see <URL> for information about operational use and required training for parts 91 , 121 , and 135 . Specifically Section 12 " TCAS Operational Use " outlines how the crew is required to respond to TA 's and RA 's . It is a few pages long so not appropriate to duplicate here .
Good question . 14 CFR Part 139 requires FAA to issue airport operating certificates to airports that : Serve scheduled and unscheduled <URL> with more than 30 seats ; Serve scheduled air carrier operations in aircraft with more than 9 seats but less than 31 seats . Also : VFR charts depict airport 's hard and soft surface runways . Enroute charts depict airports having hard surface runways of at least 3000-foot in length . If your airport meets those criteria , you may contact the local Federal Aviation Administration , Airports District Office or Aeronautical Information Management , AJV-21 , at 1 - (866) 295-8236 to have your airport charted . That means for a private airstrip , it 's your call as the owner to have it placed on a chart . Pretty cool . More : <URL>
The C172 has right of way , it 's lower . The rules are in <URL> and the only place where categories are mentioned is in 91.113 ( d ) , which is specifically about converging traffic at " approximately the same altitude " . For landing traffic , the lower aircraft has the right of way . People spend lots of time and energy discussing who has right of way on final , what " on final approach " really means , if it 's OK to <URL> a faster ( or slower ) aircraft , if an aircraft on a 5-mile final prevents other aircraft in the pattern from landing etc. . But the discussion often becomes a bit academic : practically speaking the point is to be safe , not create any problems , and not cause other aircraft to go around or maneuver to avoid you . Think of it like pulling out of a side street in your car : if another car is coming then you should n't cause him to brake hard or swerve to avoid you .
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
As several commenters have noted , medical rules are different in each country . ICAO provides guidelines and recommendations , but it 's up to each country to actually implement them . ICAO 's personnel licensing requirements are in Annex 1 which is <URL> but their <URL> implies that transgender pilots should be considered ' higher risk ' : Applicants with disorders of behaviour ( for example regarding habit , gender identity , sexuality ) should be assessed on the basis of their ability to put aside the disorder ( or any conflicts related to the disorder ) in order to attend to the aviation task at hand . These persons may have significant conflicts with their environment , leading to further difficulties , which may become an impediment for them to hold an aviation licence . Looking at specific countries , the FAA may be an unusual case by explicitly mentioning gender identity issues . I could n't find any mention of them in the <URL> , <URL> or <URL> medical requirements . But all countries ' medical requirements include something general like this ( this example is from EASA ) : ( g ) Personality or behavioural disorder Where there is suspicion or established evidence that an applicant has a personality or behavioural disorder , the applicant should be referred for psychiatric opinion and advice . That catch-all clause would - I assume - include <URL> and therefore require psychiatric evaluation of the pilot . And in cases where a pilot has had gender reassignment surgery and/or drug treatment , the surgery and drugs regimen would almost certainly trigger additional testing and investigation ( so would any other major surgical procedure or long-term drug treatment ) . Finally , it 's worth noting that whatever the general rules are , every case is different and the only way to get a specific answer for an individual is to consult with an aviation medical examiner for that jurisdiction . ( Disclaimer : I know nothing about medicine except that it 's complicated . Consult an aviation medical specialist if you want a real answer . )
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
So according to EASA , it is the <URL> and specifically in where is specifies 11 criteria regarding STD standards , among them being accuracy of aircraft performance , voice recognition realism , equipment , data displays , etc : STD criteria If a synthetic training device ( STD ) is used for training , it should be approved by the competent authority as part of the course approval process for any training plan . Training organisations should demonstrate how the STD will provide adequate support for the intended training , in particular , how the STD will meet the stated objectives of the practical training exercises and enable the performance objectives to be assessed to the level determined in the training programme . This demonstration and the related documentation should include the following relevant criteria : ( 1 ) the general environment , which should provide an environment in which STD exercises may be run without undue interference from unrelated activities ; ( 2 ) the STD layout ; ( 3 ) the equipment provided ; ( 4 ) the display presentation , functionality , and updating of operational information ; ( 5 ) data displays , including strip displays , where appropriate ; ( 6 ) coordination facilities ; ( 7 ) aircraft performance characteristics , including the availability of manoeuvres , e.g. holding or instrumental landing system ( ILS ) operation , required for a particular simulation ; ( 8 ) the availability of real-time changes during an exercise ; ( 9 ) the processes by which the training organisation can be assured that staff associated with the training conducted with the use of an STD are competent ; ( 10 ) the degree of realism of any voice recognition system associated with the STD ; ( 11 ) where a simulator is an integral part of an operational ATC system , the processes by which the training organisation is assured that interference between the simulated and operational environments is prevented . The extent to which the STD achieves the above criteria will be used to determine the adequacy of the STD for the proposed use . As a general principle , the greater the degree of replication of the operational position being represented the greater the use will be possible for any particular training .
Flying cars will need to be regulated by both the FAA and the DOT as per current laws here in the US . For what its worth flying cars are really more like road capable airplanes . When the car is airborne it will be subject to the regulations set fourth by the FAA for the airspaces it passes through and maneuvers it makes . When the car is on the road it will be subject to vehicular laws that any other car would see . That being said there is room for change here and who knows what rules may be passed in the future . There is also some grey area around things like landing in a parking lot , folding up your wings and driving away as well as the reverse case . The rules that currently govern aviation are more than capable of handling flying cars , even if they start taking off from peoples driveways . The larger issue is licensing the pilots . A drivers license is pretty easy to come by here in the states while a PPL or sport pilots license takes quite a bit of time . Everyone that currently would want a flying car would need both a drivers license and a pilots license of some form . As far as I know the FAA makes the rules for any and all altitudes . While some airspaces ( class G ) may be unregulated they are still considered from the ground up . There is no minimum altitude at which FAA regulations do n't apply and its far from a free for all in the skys the way it is on the roads in a manner of speaking . Flying cars could potentially cause an increase in air traffic however the advantage of a plane ( over driving ) is generally speed . Until someone can build a car that can do 80MPH consistently on the road and a formidable 130Kts ( and thats the slow end of planes ) through the air the use case is pretty small . One of the biggest preventers in the whole flying car situation is the engine its self . Car engines fit quite a different role than aircraft engines . The similarities end basically at the fact they are both piston engines . Some car engines have been put in planes ( Mooney/Porsche PFM 3200 ) and in the end they are generally not great planes . You can find a <URL> . You also need to keep in mind that anyone who will be fixing these vehicles will need to be an A&amp;P licensed mechanic . There are a few companies with some cool animations of future products and even a few test rigs that have been built but to date the engineering is just not really there . Chances are it will be <URL> let alone creating major air traffic issues . For the 279,000 a Terrafugia will cost you , you could buy a Used Piper Arrow ( in great shape ) and a Porsche and still have 79,000 left over for a hanger to keep them in ...
There are at least three FARs that apply ( maybe more ? ) . First , " aerobatics " as defined in <URL> seems to include spinning : For the purposes of this section , aerobatic flight means an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . That means the general restrictions in 91.303 would apply : No person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight -- ( a ) Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; ( b ) Over an open air assembly of persons ; ( c ) Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; ( d ) Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; ( e ) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or ( f ) When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Second , spinning an aircraft not approved for spinning in the POH would be a violation of <URL> : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry . Finally , <URL> would also prohibit spinning a non-certificated aircraft because it 's a ' catch-all ' regulation : § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . But spinning itself is absolutely legal and is required for a flight instructor rating as described in <URL> EDIT : there 's also a requirement in <URL> that if non-crewmembers are on board then parachutes are required for maneuvers with ' extreme ' bank or pitch , unless the flight is a test or training flight : ( c ) Unless each occupant of the aircraft is wearing an approved parachute , no pilot of a civil aircraft carrying any person ( other than a crewmember ) may execute any intentional maneuver that exceeds -- A bank of 60 degrees relative to the horizon ; or A nose-up or nose-down attitude of 30 degrees relative to the horizon . ( d ) Paragraph ( c ) of this section does not apply to -- Flight tests for pilot certification or rating ; or Spins and other flight maneuvers required by the regulations for any certificate or rating when given by -- ( i ) A certificated flight instructor ; or ( ii ) An airline transport pilot instructing in accordance with § 61.67 of this chapter .
The problem is that you 're using the Flight Operations Manual , and not the Schematic Manuals . Quite frankly , FOM 's pretty much suck in terms of technical details , but that 's not their purpose either . In regards to your question about what the channels are : Channels are really just a euphemism for system redundancy . The FAC 's are two completely separate entities ( with crosstalk capabilities ) - kind of like flight crews . The PIC ( pilot-in-command ) has primary control of the aircraft , while the SIC ( second-in-command ) has the same independent authority . The PIC and SIC can talk to one another , and monitor what each is doing . If the PIC falls ill , becomes incapacitated , etc. . the SIC can take over the functions of the PIC . The FAC 's work the same way . They both receive the same information , and have full capability of performing the work of one another . Take note of this schematic , courtesy of Airbus ( <URL> ) , and which I took the liberty of highlighting : <URL> Basically , what this schematic is saying is that the ELAC 's , under normal law , provide turn coordination and dutch roll damping to the FAC 's . They do this by receiving inputs from the rudder pedals , sidesticks , FMGC 's , ADIRU 's , SFCC , LGCIU 's , and hyd pressure . Based on those inputs , it computes the proper yaw commands and sends that to the FAC 's . It should be noted that both FAC 's receive the same information on , you guessed it , separate channels . What does that mean ? The data from ELAC 1 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires . Inside the FAC 's , those data paths are split as well ( Channel A &amp; Channel B ) and a separate processor computes the data on Channel A &amp; the data on Channel B. Never the two shall meet . Likewise , the data from ELAC 2 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires , and again , those two data paths shall never meet . At the same time , both FAC 's are receiving the same FMGC , ADIRU , SFCC , LGCIU data that the ELAC is . Again ... Separate wires , separate outputs , and computed with two different processors inside the boxes . The FAC 's are also receiving hydraulic pressure , commanded rudder trim position , and SEC fault data . Guess what ? All on different channels . Now , take note of the highlighted portion in red . Ordinarily , FAC 1 is in control of the servo loop for the RTL Motors . This essentially means that based on ALL of the inputs received from the ELAC 's and other independent systems , the FAC 1 sends a signal to the rudder travel motor and says " Move here . " The motor moves , and a feedback signal from the RTLU circuitry is sent to the FAC saying " Here I am . " When the commanded position of the surface position minus the actual position of the surface is approximately ~ 0 , the surface is nulled . This is a basic feedback loop/servoloop . The FAC 2 has the exact same capabilities as FAC 1 . The two are in constant communication , making sure that neither has failed . If FAC 1 reports a self-failure , or FAC 2 detects a problem with FAC 1 and/or its servo loop , FAC 2 can immediately take over . Notice that FAC 2 is responsible for the M2 ( second motor ) of the rudder travel limit system , and FAC 1 is responsible for the M1 ( primary motor ) of the rudder travel limit system . The wiring for the motors and its associated servo loop are completely separate . Again , the idea is complete system isolation . As such , any one failure can not take out the entirety of a system . All of the above is under the presumption of NORMAL LAW . It appears that cracked solder joints , emphases on the plural form , caused failures of Channel A &amp; Channel B of the RTLU ( see page 66 of accident report ) . Basically , like I mentioned previously , FAC 2 was monitoring FAC 1 for faults with it or its associated servo loop . When RTL channel A failed ( the servo loop feeding data back to FAC 1 ; associated with Motor 1 ) , the FAC 2 picked up on it , and took over on its own separate channel . A cracked solder joint on RTL channel B caused FAC 2 to trigger a failure . At some point during these failures , the flight crew pulled the circuit breakers , presumably to reset the faults . The loss of both FAC 's put the aircraft into alternate law . Once the aircraft was in alternate law , it seemed that there was a lot of confusion as to what was happening . From there , things went from bad to disastrous .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
Blasting areas are not subject to particular regulation , they can be depicted on charts and announced by NOTAMs . It 's pilot responsibility to remain clear of these areas : <URL> Source : <URL> Known permanent blasting activities can be depicted on VFR charts and announced by NOTAM until charts can be updated . From <URL> : The " VFR Chart Updating Data " section of the CFS provides a means of notifying VFR chart users of significant aeronautical information to update the current VFR aeronautical charts . In this regard , significant aeronautical information is considered to be that which affects the safety of VFR operation , e.g. obstructions , restricted and advisory areas , blasting operations , cable crossings , and new or revised control zones . New or revised information of this nature , which is required to be depicted on visual charts , is advertised by NOTAM until such time as the information can be published in the " VFR Chart Updating Data " section of the CFS . Subsequently , the NOTAM is cancelled . However temporary or itinerant blasting activities may not be advertised . From the <URL> : Another concern to low flying is the blasting operations associated with the logging industry . The trajectory of debris from the blasting varies with the type of explosives , substance being excavated and the canopy of trees , if any . These blasting activities may or may not be advertised by NOTAM . Minimum safe altitudes do n't take blast risk into account . From the Canada Air Pilot publication : " CYA , CYR and known blasting areas are not considered in the establishment of MSA altitudes . For this reason , it is the pilot 's responsibility to remain clear of these areas as applicable " Source : <URL> More : See this discussion : <URL> .
end question
start question
What is the highest muzzle velocity of a gun on any fighter aircraft ?
The muzzle velocity of guns is based on multiple factors and generally sees a wide range . Most importantly how the bullet is loaded ( gun powder wise ) and what mass the bullet is . For example the P-51 mustang carried 6 <URL> . Which ( although not available at the time ) is capable of accepting the <URL> round which has a quoted muzzle velocity of 4,000 ft/s ( 1,219 m/s ) . It should also be noted that the base muzzle velocity of an M2 is 2,910 ft/s ( 890 m/s ) for <URL> . So it really depends what round you are loading in . The <URL> has the <URL> which with the TP HEI ammunition has a quoted muzzle velocity of 3,560 feet ( 1,085 m ) per second ( 15 m/s faster than the GAU-8 on the warthog ) . ( Not sure about you guys but I often test my gatling guns with my multi-meter ... ) <URL>
the <URL> is the line stretching from the leading edge of the wing to the trailing edge parallel to the centerline . <URL> There are different variations to describe the chord of the whole wing . The Standard Mean Chord Defined as $ \ frac S b $ with $ S$ the surface area and $ b $ the span of the wing . This is not used in aerodynamics . The Mean Aerodynamic Chord Defined as $ \ frac2 S \ int_0 ^ { \ frac b 2 } c ( y ) ^ 2 dy $ with $ y $ the coordinate along the wing and $ c ( y ) $ the chord at $ y $ . For swept or delta wings this gives the equivalent chord for a rectangular wing , and is important for placing the Center of Gravity for stability .
<URL> has a list of historical routes both by <URL> and ( a few ) <URL> . Though it is not complete , it has a lot of data .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
There are four different types of ELTs : Automatic fixed ELT ( ELT ( AF ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is permanently attached to an aircraft . Automatic portable ELT ( ELT ( AP ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft but readily removable from the aircraft . Automatic deployable ELT ( ELT ( AD ) ) . An ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft and which is automatically deployed and activated by impact , and , in some cases , also by hydrostatic sensors . Manual deployment capability is also provided . Survival ELT ( ELT ( S ) ) . An ELT which is removable from an aircraft , stowed so as to facilitate its ready use in an emergency , and manually activated by survivors . All the aircraft I fly in ( all two of 'em ) have the third type . If the aircraft is submerged or experiences a high G-force , the ELT will be triggered . There 's also a button on the panel to activate it manually . I 'm not sure what G-forces are required to set off the ELT , but they must be fairly significant -- I 've slammed my plane down pretty hard while misjudging my landings , and never had it go off . According to <URL> : To meet the " g " force requirements of TSO-C91 , automatic fixed-type inertially activated ELT 's ( except overwater type ) must activate at any inertial force , parallel to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft when installed in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions , of 5 ( +2 , -0 ) g and greater for a time duration of 11 ( +5 , -0 ) milliseconds or longer . So , there you have it . You need 5 -- 7 Gs for 11 -- 16 milliseconds -- but only in the direction the plane is pointing . Misjudging your landing flare and stalling the plane 20 feet off the runway wo n't set it off , as that 's not on the axis they 're measuring .
Your question is about friction drag while the text is mainly about aspect ratio . You seem to explain the choice of aspect ratio to be based on friction drag . This is not correct . <URL> and <URL> are some good answers to explain the choice of aspect ratio . You will see that it has mostly to do with structural strength and wing volume to pack enough fuel . For supersonic aircraft the <URL> provides a highly swept leading edge , a stiff , light wing and good low-speed characteristics even with the thin airfoils which are helpful in supersonic flight . Generally , aspect ratio becomes less important the faster the aircraft flies , because it has more air flowing past per unit of time for creating lift . At supersonic speed some of the drag is proportional to the local inclination of the surface , so the designers try to make the aircraft <URL> . To put it bluntly , a subsonic aircraft likes to be as wide as possible to reduce <URL> , while a supersonic aircraft likes being longer to reduce <URL> . Friction drag will go up with the square of velocity if all other parameters are constant . Since a higher velocity increases the Reynolds number ( the ratio of inertial to viscous forces ) , in the real world the increase is slightly less than with the square of velocity . Since lift also goes up with velocity squared , the airplane can <URL> where the density is lower , which reduces both lift and drag . Now you need to consider the change in temperature over altitude : Air gets cooler when it expands , and cooler air causes higher viscous forces . By flying higher , the Reynolds number goes down again and the viscous drag goes up . In total , flying faster and higher will result in a <URL> at the same lift . If you <URL> you will find that lengthening the flow path will generally increase drag less than proportionally . Only when the boundary layer is laminar and lengthening the flow path adds a turbulent transition will you find that <URL> more than proportionally . <URL> , but mostly it comes sooner than the engineers like . Please follow the links and read the linked answers , only then is this answer complete .
In order to engage the usual arresting gear ( cables ) on an aircraft carrier , it helps to have a <URL> . There are other forms of <URL> that do not require a tail hook . Presumably the main limitations on an aircraft using them are the size , weight , and landing speed of the aircraft . These devices do not seem to be designed for as frequent use as the arresting cables of a carrier . Followup : As I found out on looking into this further , many ( most ? all ? ) present-day land-based fighter jets , not just Navy or Marines jets , have tail hooks as well . However , at least according to <URL> , tail hooks of the types of aircraft used by the US Air Force ( and some other air forces ) are not designed to work with aircraft carrier arresting cables but only with land-based systems ( which suspend the cables higher than the aircraft carrier systems do ) . As mentioned in a comment ( and in the Wikipedia article on " Arresting gear " linked above ) , barrier nets can serve as arresting gear . Various publications ( for example the <URL> , pp. 10 -- 11 , accessed 22-Jan-2015 ) list numerous kinds of gear , including cables designed to engage tail hooks , woven straps designed to be torn by tail hooks ( one-time use only ! ) , nets designed to engage struts , nets designed to engage wings , nets combined with cables , and engineered material arresting systems ( EMAS ) that absorb energy as they are crushed under the wheels of the aircraft . I have not yet found any citations of EMAS being used by military aircraft , but its main limitation of seems to be landing speed rather than aircraft weight or size , as <URL> dated December 12 , 2014 credits these systems with stopping nine aircraft that overran runways in separate incidents , including a Boeing 747 , an MD-11 , and an Airbus A320 .
One reason is interception ( with interceptor , not missiles ) . Defence is probably more important . Defence with fighters is still important for three reasons : There are relatively effective counter-measures against surface-to-air missiles . A fighter pilot can adjust the strategy to the counter-measures encountered , missile ca n't . In peace or limited conflict situations it is often not known whether a suspicious target is hostile at all and the only way to identify it is to have a fighter fly to it and have the pilot identify it with their eyes . Fighter can also do other things than use lethal force . In peace time you generally do n't want to shot down an intruding military aircraft of another country straight away . Fighter can chase it away from your territory or can try to arrest it ( force it to land on your own airbase ) . And fighters are also used to identify and possibly navigate to safety civil aircraft that lost radio contact . So when a potentially hostile aircraft is detected entering your territory , fighters are sent to intercept it and help it , arrest it or shot it down depending on what it turns out to be . If the fighters are slower than the intruder , they may not be able to intercept it at all ( they do n't usually know where it is flying so they ca n't wait for it ) . The faster they are , the larger area they can defend . In this case the interceptors take off without external fuel tanks ( as they wo n't be flying very far ) and with only relatively small air-to-air missiles , so they can fly fast . Conversely if you try to penetrate the enemy territory , flying faster limits the number of fighters that can intercept you . However in this case it is more useful to rely on stealth or flying low to evade detection , so attack aircraft often are either not supersonic or have lower maximum speed .
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
Do n't know what you mean by real temperature . You will certainly experience a change of static temperature in an adiabatic flow if the velocity changes . Stagnation enthalpy describes the total energy contained in the fluid which comprises inner ( thermal ) energy , kinetic energy ( and potential energy which is often neglected ) . Stagnation enthalpy is constant for an adiabatic flow with no energy exchange . Thus , thermal and kinetic energy are antagonistic in the sense that increases of the kinetic energy need to be countered by reducing thermal energy in order to keep a constant value of total i.e. stagnation enthalpy , and vice versa . The stagnation temperature of a fluid is a virtual entity , temperature entities that are observable i.e. measurable are static temperatures . However , in a stagnating point the static temperature ideally features the value of the stagnation temperature . Back to your question : If you measure temperatures in an adiabatic flow at points of different flow velocities , you will experience different temperature readings . Your measurement setup has to ensure that your readings are not falsified by slowing down the fluid at the points of measurement .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
Yes , the yaw string on the canopy of a glider is there to show you whether or not you are coordinated , especially during turns . It indicates the relative wind , so will be straight unless the glider is slipping or skidding , in which case it will swing to the left or right . For those not familiar with them , here is an image that shows one : According to <URL> , they are also used on other aircraft ( even jet fighters and the U-2 ! ) although they are used in almost every glider . Now , the advantages that it has over an actual instrument installed in the panel are numerous : It is directly in your line of sight while looking outside , so you do n't have to look at the instrument panel to see if you are yawing . It is more sensitive It reacts faster to changes It is cheaper It is lighter It does n't require electricity ( or even an electrical system on the glider ) It costs far less to maintain It is easy to recognize when it fails ( it 's either there or not )
I do n't think there is any regulation on max flying hours , just regulations on <URL> . The <URL> is the most frequent check , and according to Wikipedia : This is performed approximately every 125 flight hours or 200 -- 400 cycles . It needs about 20 -- 50 man-hours and is usually performed overnight at an airport gate or hangar . The actual occurrence of this check varies by aircraft type , the cycle count ( takeoff and landing is considered an aircraft " cycle " ) , or the number of hours flown since the last check . The occurrence can be delayed by the airline if certain predetermined conditions are met . The other checks include : B check - every 4 -- 6 months , requiring about 150 man-hours and is usually performed within 1 -- 3 days at an airport hangar C check - every 20 -- 24 months , requiring about 6000 man-hours , taking 1 to 2 weeks to complete D check - major maintenance check , occuring about every 6 years , requiring 50,000 man hours , generally spanning a couple months . Note that all of these times are approximate , depending on the exact maintenance plan filed by the airline and the aircraft type . Also cycle count may be factored into the maintenance intervals in addition to flight hours so aircraft that do many short-haul flights may have more frequent maintenance . So in any case , only looking at the A checks , if you can land , refuel , service , and get back in the air in 2 hours between 10 hour flights , the plane could stay in the air for 20 hours/day . Every 6 days , it will need some downtime for the A checks , let 's say the airline puts enough people on it to get the check done in 5 hours . So that 's 125 hours per cycle : 120 hours flying , 5 hours in maintenance . They can fit 4.83 of these cycles in a 30 day month so the aircraft could be flying up to 580 hours in any given month ( but that last A check gets deferred to the next month , so that means less time in the air that month . With longer flights ( which reduces the overhead from turnaround times ) and tighter turnaround times , the flight hours per month could be higher . If you really want the maximum for a month , then if you assume 125 hours per maintenance inverval and that the plane is kept in the air as long as possible with 0 turnaround time , that 's around 690 flying hours out of 720 total hours in a month . Of course , this makes a big assumption that the A check interval really is 120 hours , and that the time to do the maintenance is 5 hours , in the real world both numbers will vary based on aircraft , airline , and maintenance staffing levels . Plus , over the longer term , you need to factor the other , less frequent but also more time consuming maintenance checks ( B through D checks ) , as well as allow downtime for unexpected repairs .
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
The F-14 manual describes the ejection system as : The aircraft is equipped with an automatic electronically sequenced command escape system incorporating two Navy aircrew common ejection seat ( SJU-17 ( V ) 3/A ( pilot ) and SJU-17 ( V ) 4/A ( RIO ) ) rocket-assisted ejection seats . That means the seats are an integral part of the system . According to <URL> , the weight is 228 pounds ( 103 kg ) and it has a " maximum thrust [ of ] 4,800 pounds for 0.25 seconds " . A cockpit seat on a Boeing 737 weighs around 40 kg if we are to trust this <URL> , so we can say the addition of the ejection elements adds 63 kg . Of course a 737 cockpit seat is much heavier than a WWII non-existent seat ( the pilots <URL> their own cushions ) . This might be useful however if you want to compare a B-52 with and without ejection seats . Below is an image for that ejection system , and as I gather , that 's a very common ( average ) model found on many US aircraft . <URL> ( Click for larger size . )
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
In order to state the plane is airworthy you must be able to show that all AD 's have been complied with and that the aircraft is within annual ( or 100 hour ) inspection ; these proofs are typically found in the logbook so no , without the logbook your aircraft is probably not airworthy . It may be possible to fly the plane legally in the US anyway if you receive authorization from your FSDO ( which , I believe , would be a " ferry permit " ) . It 's not legally required that your logbook be complete to the beginning of time , just that it shows the current requirements are met ( along with the signatures/cert numbers of the AI 's that are stating them to be met ) . However , an incomplete logbook is very important from a resale point of view . Not having complete logs will make a plane very difficult to sell and will certainly affect the price most purchasers would be willing to pay .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
Your observation about roll inertia is correct : Winglets add proportionally more roll inertia for their small increase in L/D , and this increase exists only for the higher range of lift coefficients . At low lift coefficients ( think cruise ) , when the induced drag is low , they add more friction drag and reduce the L/D overall . There are three aspects to maneuverability : How quickly can you accelerate into a roll ? Here the added inertia of winglets reduces roll acceleration How high is the maximum sustained turn rate ? This is determined by the maximum lift at zero sink rate , and here winglets are helping . Especially when mounted to low aspect ratio wings . How high is the maximum turn rate ? Now only lift counts , and the increased drag is compensated by an increased sink rate . Again , winglets help a little , but less than with the sustained turn rate . Now look at the time any fighter will spend around 1g ( hint : Something close to 100 % ) and how much is spent at high lift coefficients , like when turning tightly in air combat . Winglets would help in the turn ( and I think Ethan 's opinion is wrong ) , but be a source of drag for the rest of the mission . Adding winglets would require to increase the fuel volume to prevent a reduction in flight time and range . Normally , winglets are only used on highly loaded , high-aspect ratio wings when their L/D at a rather high lift coefficient needs to be pushed up even more . Highly maneuverable configurations are less concerned with single-percentage increases in L/D for a small part of the flight , and in order to improve turn performance , increasing wing span is much more effective . But that increases roll inertia and roll damping , so fighters use low-aspect ratio wings and compensate their higher drag in a turn with more powerful engines . Note that the trend in fighter aspect ratios went down with the improving thrust-to-weight ratio of jet engines . Now that is the reason why you do n't see winglets on fighter jets : They would lower L/D for most of the flight . To perform the same mission , the fighter without winglets can be made smaller . But let 's make no mistake : Low aspect ratio configurations gain the most from winglets : They were essential on the <URL> to give it enough L/D for a successful flare .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
end question
start question
What is the best method to time your round out or flare in Cessna 172 ?
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
Short answer The reverser is not installed on the outer engines . As the linked question mentions : This allows to lighten the engines , this also prevents any unwanted and hazardous opening in flight as well as the costly check time for an unused feature . The reverser used on the A380 is a cold flow type . It is merely part of the engine by itself . It is actually integrated in the nacelle structure channeling the bypass cold flow . Principle Thrust reversal on this aircraft type consists in opening the bypass duct sideways , interrupting the bypass flow in the duct and redirecting it through the opening . The opening is created by sliding the aft section of the nacelle case to expose a set of vanes . The blocked flow now escapes sideways and is guided forward by the vanes : <URL> Principle of cold flow thrust reverser ( <URL> ) <URL> Thrust reverser on the A380 ( <URL> ) Engine , reverser , nacelle The A380 is equipped with Trent 900 from Rolls-Royce or GP7200 from Engine Alliance . The thrust reversers are made by a different provider , <URL> ( formerly Hurel-Hispano , now part of Safran ) , which also manufactures the nacelles . This is because the thrust reverser is really integrated in the nacelle rather than linked to the engine . Trent 900 The reverser is in the cold / bypass flow behind the fan section which is the engine section with the largest diameter ( in the Trent 900 , about 3m ! ) . <URL> Hot flow , cold flow and reversed flow in a Trend 1000 ( similar to 900 ) . Based on <URL> by Gandoza , on <URL> . The cold flow duct is similar in both versions of the nacelles . The duct is fenced by two semi-annular walls , where the flow is rushed by the fan and the LP compressor . The reverser features are just added or not at the end of the duct , just behind the <URL> . <URL> Not the A380 , but similar : Front panels can raise like petals and block the flow when the sleeve move aft ( <URL> ) Cold flow duct with reverser The inner wall prevents all the flow to reach the core and the components and pipes around it , in order to not create damage or drag and heat . However a limited quantity of air is still directed toward the core for cooling . <URL> Trent 900 duct and reverser . Based on <URL> models . Top image from the <URL> by BlueGreen . Bottom images from another <URL> by BlueGreen . Cold flow duct without reverser Left half of the duct highlighted in blue . <URL> Nacelle duct for cold flow . Based on image by <URL> on <URL>
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
Consulting your handy POH ( or one for a 172N that I Googled up ) you 'll find the fuel system diagram looks like the one below ( click to enlarge - most high-wing gravity-fed fuel systems are similar ) . <URL> So there are a number of ways you could wind up with uneven fuel burn with this plumbing . The most common ones are : ( Uncoordinated ) Turns If you 're flying lots of left-hand traffic patterns ( or you 're making lots of left turns for some other reason ) that means your left wing is frequently lower , and gravity favors pulling fuel from the right tank . ( Note that it does n't have to be a turn - prolonged slips can also cause uneven fuel flow . ) If I had to take a guess , I 'd say this is probably your culprit . Were you making a lot of left turns ? Pressure The fuel vent tube on the left tank faces into the wind - this pressurizes the left tank first ( and the right tank through the breather tube connecting the two ) - it 's a little extra encouragement for fuel to leave the tanks and flow into the engine . In some aircraft this leads to the left tank draining faster ( because it 's at a slightly higher air pressure than the right tank ) - this can become particularly pronounced if the breather tube between the two tanks is blocked . <URL> Various blockages A partial blockage in either of the tank fuel lines , the fuel selector valve , the vent , or the breather line between the two tanks could theoretically cause uneven fuel burn ( the vent/breather blockages being a special case of " pressure " from ( 2 ) above ) . Pilot Error It 's possible to mis-position the fuel selector in such a way that you 're getting adequate fuel flow to run the engine , but one tank is more restricted than the other . This is unlikely if the aircraft is properly maintained ( the fuel selector should have nice , identifiable detents that it clicks into , letting you know it 's in position ) . For more detail on causes for uneven fuel burn ( and tips for troubleshooting it with your mechanic ) check out <URL> . Is uneven fuel burn dangerous ? Maybe . It 's certainly something you should be aware of ( part of why you want your fuel gauges to be at least somewhat accurate is so you can tell if your fuel burn is uneven in flight and correct it by switching to the fuller tank briefly ) . Uneven fuel burn can be an annoyance ( a 5 gallon difference is about 30lbs - potentially enough to notice on the controls ) , but it can also be a safety hazard : If allowed to go uncorrected you could theoretically get yourself into a situation where the right fuel tank is empty , and in a steep enough left turn you may not have enough pressure from gravity to get fuel from the left tank into the engine . In an extreme case your right tank may be empty and your left tank may be so low as to unport the fuel pickup tube in a turn , potentially leading to attitude-induced fuel starvation ( " The noisy part of the plane gets quiet until you level the wings " ) .
Route times are pretty well known . If you know when the plane should depart and how long the flight should last , it 's pretty easy to calculate when it will be arriving . Give a few minutes leeway on either side , and you should be good . If the plane is not there on time , you send it somewhere else . Most large aircraft have some sort of <URL> that allows them to talk to company dispatch and let them know if they 're going to be early or late , among other things . Barring that , they almost always have a company radio frequency that they can relay messages on one way or another .
Yes . The first published results of measurements made by <URL> of the <URL> on a flat disk can be found in the collection <URL> ( PDF ! ) . He reported on a hysteresis in the angle of attack range between 39 ° and 42 ° , where the wing is either stalled or not , depending from which side this angle of attack range is approached . <URL> Lift and pitching moment coefficients of a flat disk , page 97 of Ergebnisse IV When <URL> tested disk-shaped wings with an <URL> section in the early 1930s in the NACA 7 x 10 ft wind tunnel , he called them circular airfoils . The results of this testing can be found in <URL> ( PDF ! ) from August 1935 . <URL> Figures 10 and 11 from the last page of NACA TN 539 <URL> collected the little data available on circular wings in his book <URL> ( page 17-8 ) and concluded : Disregarding any dreams of " flying saucers " , the athletic implement called discus seems to be the only practical application of a circular planform . However , Zimmerman went on to inspire the <URL> , the " flying pancake " of 1942 , from which the <URL> was developed . <URL> Vought V-173 in flight ( picture <URL> )
For this we need to reference the <URL> First off this will tell us who is in charge down there ( at least for US bases ) as its not quite an ice frontier free for all , Oversight of the on-ice operations of the civil aircraft is NSF-delegated to the Dept of the Interior/OAS Office of Aviation Services ( OAS ) in accordance with the SLA between OAS/AIL . Joint use of the USAP airspace in Antarctica requires close coordination between the DoD and NSF ( and its delegations ) . It looks like if you want to fly down there you need to file <URL> 2.3.4 . Intercontinental flights between New Zealand and Antarctica will require USAP aircrew to file a DD Form 1801 ( International Flight Plan ) in Christchurch Base Operations to Christchurch Clearance Delivery . Flights utilizing the Macquarrie route will require a FIR estimate for Melbourne and Auckland boundaries . The document does not list any approach procedures for NZSP but it does list them for McMurdo Station and they are presumably similar , 2.7.2.1 . IFR . McMurdo ATC retains responsibility for all IFR aircraft . Aircraft will be USAP Inter-agency Air Operations Manual , 1 August 2012 40 instructed to contact Tower prior to entering Class E airspace . Mac 2.7.2.2 . VFR . Aircraft are normally instructed to contact tower no closer than 10 miles from the airport for landing instructions . 2.7.2.3 . Aircraft operating in Class D airspace will be in radio contact with the tower and should remain at 1,000 feet AGL or higher ( 500 feet for helicopters ) until commencing final descent . They even have reg 's for uncontrolled fields 2.8.1 . For operations at uncontrolled McMurdo area airfields , fixed/rotary wing aircraft pilots will follow uncontrolled field procedures . 2.8.1.1 . Flight plans will be filed with Mac Center and advisory service provided . 2.8.1.2 . Fifteen ( 15 ) minutes prior to departure from an uncontrolled airfield , the pilot will notify Mac Center/Tower of planned activity via landline or radio . 2.8.1.3 . Mac Center/Tower will notify Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting ( ARFF ) ( who notifies the USAP Airfield Manager ) on FM Channel 2 of intended uncontrolled airfield operations . 2.8.1.4 . Pilots will announce their intentions on the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) VHF 129.7 MHz . Interestingly it looks like McMurdo is the primary landing strip however based on the letter of 1.2.1 the South Pole Station ( which Im pretty sure is NZSP ) only accepts ski equipped aircraft so you would at least need skis . 1.2.1 . Primary airfields for the USAP are located in the McMurdo Station area and at the South Pole Station ( ski-equipped aircraft only ) . The primary heliport is located at McMurdo Station . Additional ice runways , skiways , and helicopter landing sites are established throughout the continent supporting the USAP science activities as planned by the NSF Prime Contractor 's Fixed / Rotary Wing Coordinators . According to the doc a lot of the info is published in the <URL> which looks like you may need to set up <URL> to download or " contact [ your ] affiliate National Antarctic Program " . All this in mind , I have not yet found any documentation or out right publications that seem to forbid flying there as long as procedures are followed . With that in mind you clearly need to file some flight plans and related info , I would think you would need a good reason to be going there to get approval . The reality is there may be more info on this buried in the <URL> but in practice I dont know how that sort of stuff gets enforced .
General Each person leaving the country must be authorized to return to the US . ( ie . they are a US citizen or their visa allows them to leave and return to the US . ) Ensure that you have all required paperwork Pilot license Medical Aircraft Registration The aircraft must have a current <URL> . Ensure that the aircraft is properly equipped 12 " Registration Numbers Transponder Before Leaving the US File eAPIS <URL> is required to be filed at least 60 minutes prior to your departure . Other third party services ( ie . <URL> , etc. ) may make this easier if you do it a lot . File an international flight plan May be an instrument or a defence VFR flight plan Before Returning to the US File eAPIS ( see above ) File a flight plan ( see above ) Notify customs and obtain permission at least one hour prior to landing in the US . Record the initials of the customs officer that you spoke to just in case they misplace your notification . Note that if you are coming from locations " south of the US " ( for the specific definition , see <URL> ) , you must stop at the <URL> closest to your point of border crossing to clear customs ( unless you have an overflight permit ) . Upon Arrival in the US You must land at an <URL> . Report immediately to the designated customs location Do not allow anybody or anything to leave/enter the aircraft until the customs official gives your permission The only exception that I know of to this are the South Florida airports where you are expected to take all people and belongings into the customs facility for inspection . Discard any international garbage in the approved manner . Provide required paperwork A <URL> for each arriving family Wait for customs to specifically tell you that you are cleared before you attempt to leave . Notes This is not all-encompassing , please help add to and expand this list so that others may learn from our experience ! A TON of useful information is made available by the FAA in the <URL> .
I find climbing into the aircraft a good first step ;) Sorry , could n't resist ! The best way to start is to find and visit a local airfield near where you live . Most local airfields have some level of training taking place , and if the closest to you does not then another , perhaps slightly farther afield , will do . Visit one of these flying schools and ask to speak to an instructor , a CFI , or an examiner . They will give you more details such as the aircraft they fly , the typical syllabus and the expected costs . From there , you might like to start with a " trial flight " - typically 30-45 minute flight where you get to take controls and get a feel for piloting an aircraft . Good luck .
The things you mention would matter , if you wanted to know the distance to 6 or more significant digits . But ATC does not need that precision . They need to be able to tell whether it 's 4 nmi ( too close ) , 5 nmi ( still sufficient , but getting in trouble ) or 10 nmi ( no worry , but should not be heading directly towards each other ) . That is one significant digit . The controller does not use any formula . They just look at the distance of the targets on the radar scope ( which is drawn properly to scale ) . And possibly use the grid that is drawn over it or compares to the leader lines ( indicating velocity ) or history trail . The controller does n't need precision , they need to look and see . And they are not getting any precision ; on centre station ( controller handling en-route traffic ) the radar target blob is about a mile wide . Until recently , aircraft did not broadcast position at all . Many still do n't ; not all aircraft are equipped with ADS-B . For those that do n't , the interrogator may have precision similar to DME ( ~ 0.1 nmi ) in range and a degree or two in angle . Not great precision either . The radar also has single rotating antena that takes couple of seconds to scan the whole circle , so the position of the aircraft is only updated once every few seconds . Jet airliner in cruise moves some 700 m in 3 s. On such radar , the scope most likely transforms directly from the angle and distance reported by the radar to the screen coordinates . Altitude was usually not taken into account ( so higher targets appear further than they really are ! ) in the older systems . New radars with ADS-B support ( less busy areas do n't need it ) need to combine the radar data with coordinates reported by ADS-B , which are in WGS84 , so WGS84 is usually used as intermediate format for the collected data . But shortcuts can still be taken in the software . I do n't know what which radar system manufacturer uses , but I work on navigations and we tested the precision . By assuming Earth is flat and the coordinate system is orthogonal and using simple Pythagorean formula , you can still get 3-4 significant digits ( unless you are working around north or south pole ) for points tens of miles apart , which is more than enough for the radar screen . So the system can simply multiply longitude and latitude with appropriate factors ( that depend on latitude of the sector centre ) and get sufficient precision .
As usual , it is a combination of measures : Flow speed at the start of the combustion chamber is the lowest in the whole engine , in the order of 30 m/s . High fuel pressure and many small fuel injector nozzles , such that the mean fuel droplet size is kept as small as possible Flame holders cause a pocket of stagnated , burning flow which helps to ignite the fuel-air mixture The combustion chamber is long enough to allow most of the combustion to happen inside , such that radiated heat from the burning gas ignites the fuel-air mixture upstream . In marginal conditions the ignitors are switched on to help speed up the ignition . Control of parameters , such that fuel starvation by rapid throttle changes can be avoided . Examples are fuel control units , where a centrifugal feedback valve would control fuel flow depending on the engine 's rotational speed , or electronic control ( <URL> ) . Much can be done by running the engine such that the risk of flameout is minimized . The operational measures to ensure a stable flame would be : Avoid fuel starvation ( empty tank , fuel pump failure , clogged pipes ) . This one is obvious , but I need to include it for the nitpickers . Avoid too low pressure for rapid combustion : <URL> speeds up the chemical reaction , and if the aircraft flies high and/or throttles down , the lowered pressure in the combustion chamber might cause a flame-out . High-altitude jet engines <URL> as a precaution . A compressor surge or disturbed inlet air flow can cause a sudden pressure loss in the combustion chamber and a consequent flame-out , the latter especially in supersonic fighters with their long intakes and high angle-of-attack capabilities . Avoid sudden cooling of the air inside the engine , e.g. by heavy rain . The additional water extracts energy when it evaporates and causes a temperature drop in the combustion chamber which can lead to a <URL> . Another possibility is too much fuel which has been ingested by the intake in a botched aerial refueling attempt . Avoid clogging of the inside of the engine by ingested dust , like gun smoke or <URL> .
The A380 has a total waste tank capacity of or , <URL> . B. Capacity There are four waste tanks , two upper deck tanks and two main deck tanks , see FIGURE 5-4-10-991-003-A . ( 1 ) Upper Deck Waste-Tanks - 373 l ( 99 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 2 ) Main Deck Waste-Tanks - 675 l ( 178 US gal ) . Each tank is precharged with 35 l ( 9 US gal ) of chemical fluid . ( 3 ) Total Waste Tank Capacity - 2096 l ( 554 US gal ) . The size will vary for each aircraft type , the <URL> . Smaller General Aviation aircraft do not have lavatories , this depends on aircraft size and purpose . The average Cessna will not have lavatories either , pilots have to plan their stops properly or rely on accessory such as the TravelJohn . Larger General Aviation aircraft such as smaller jets and aircraft designed for more than 4 passengers are more likely to have lavatories on board . ( Image Source : <URL> ) There is no dumping system for waste tanks , mostly for hygienic and environmental reasons , as the waste tanks are not only filled with fecal and thus biological matter , but also with chemicals .
That ground instructor is giving you bad information . You can not make a blanket statement like " full nose up trim " and expect it to be valid for any and all situations . You are correct that the best L/D speed will yield the best glide ratio and that the speed will vary with weight . The best trim position is the one that will maintain the best glide speed hands off . Any other trim position will require an additional control input to fight the trim and that input will cause additional drag . So no , full nose up trim will not yield the best glide unless by some remarkable coincidence that is also the trim position for hands off best glide speed .
It is a turbo charged piston aircraft ( much like turbo charged car , the engine is somewhat similar to that <URL> ( think <URL> ) ) . <URL> is generally short for Turbine-Propeller which is a propeller aircraft powered by a turbine engine . Turbo charged piston aircraft are piston driven engines with a turbo charger , many often may carry the T or TC designation after the model number . Such as the <URL> or <URL> In this case we can reference the <URL> Airframe &amp; Powerplant <URL> 315 HP Turbocharged Engine
Its a bit dated but here is a <URL> . Keep in mind these are navy pilots , often considered the best of the best and in peek physical condition . Based on the publish year I would suspect all subjects were male as well . Here is <URL> on reaction times for pilots on low sleep . This is <URL> , might be of some help . An additional question I have related to this is , how can one design an aircraft to make it difficult for pilots to enter PIO 's ? This is an interesting question and in some regards could be its own question here . One of the big debates ( mainly between Boeing and Airbus ) is if systems like this should exist and who has the final say in terms of control deflection . Airbus takes the approach that the computers should prevent the pilot of say pulling back on the stick and stalling the plane . While Boeing generally allows pilots to be the final say and while their systems will warn of a stall you can ultimately pill back the column until the plane stalls . In terms of how you would design something like this you would have to limit control input after an approach to oscillation was detected .
Nobody can definitively answer this for you except Cessna 's 1965/1966 engineering team ( the year they made the change ) , but there are two reasons I can think of : Because switches are cooler than Johnson bars ; or Because everyone else is doing electric flaps . Much like with manual transmissions , some people just do n't like the extra work of manual flaps , and for those folks electric " flip a switch and do n't worry about it " flaps are a selling point . In terms of reliability it 's a trade-off ( as are all engineering decisions ) , so let 's look at a few of the factors : Mechanical Flaps Flaps still work when the battery is dead . The pilot can control the extension/retraction rate to some extent . Usually cross-linked with a bar ( so you ca n't have a " split-flap " condition ) Simple to rig , adjust , and maintain . Actuation requires more pilot skill You need to develop the muscle memory to grab the handle without looking . You need to learn to govern the extension/retraction rate smoothly . The failure mode is usually " Flaps Up " You could lose your flaps on short final if the cable or lock mechanism fails . Electric Flaps " Easier to Operate " ( you do n't need to reach down to the floor ) Extension/Retraction rate is constant ( governed by the motor ) Fewer moving cables running through the fuselage ( wires replace them ) Typical failure mode ( e.g. dead battery ) is " Flaps stuck where you left them " Less chance of losing your flaps on short final . Depending on the design they may save some weight over a mechanical system . You lose control of the flaps if the battery dies ( no-flap landings are more likely ) You have one or more motors to maintain/replace if they fail Depending on the design it 's possible to have a " split-flap " condition Cessna 's engineers and marketing folks looked at those factors ( and probably many others ) and decided that electric flaps " made sense " . On the other side of the GA fleet , Piper 's engineers looked at the same factors and decided to keep the Johnson bar flaps ( which are still found in the PA-28 series today ) . From a manufacturing standpoint it makes sense for all of the aircraft a manufacturer produces to use the samecontrol mechanisms -- either all the planes use mechanical flaps or all the planes use electric flaps because it simplifies production and allows everything to run through on one assembly line rather than stopping at the flaps and diverting aircraft to different teams .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
Nope . Your solo time must be done <URL> ( the FAA does n't come out and say it in those words , but that 's what the " aeronautical experience " requirements basically boil down to ) . You must also pass a <URL> and receive instruction in the particular make and model of aircraft you will be solo-ing in ( the second of which is impossible in an ultralight : You can not receive dual instruction in that aircraft as by regulation it can only have one seat ) . As you do n't need a pilot certificate to fly an ultralight you could just get one , get some basic instruction on flying it ( from someone who has flown them before ) , and go fly . <URL> thanks to modern materials and construction techniques . Your private pilot training &amp; solo experience would be helpful in flying certain types of ultralight aircraft , but it 's not required as long as you abide by the regulations applicable to ultralights . Similarly experience in the more " airplane-like " ultralights may help you out in the rest of your private pilot training , but that experience is n't required ( and not really " loggable " toward your training , through you can put it in your logbook if you wish -- just log the time as " Ultralight Flying " or something similar . )
<URL> is the best place to get a quick status update - the little note at the top gets updated when they move into a new batch of certificates . You can also search for yourself <URL> : When your new certificate or rating shows up there your certificate is probably in the mail . How long it takes to get your permanent certificate depends mainly on how many they have in the queue ahead of you - Mine took about 60 days , but I 've heard as little as 30 and as long as 100 + . If you 're getting close to the expiration of your temporary certificate you can request an extension either <URL> or at your local FSDO ( more details over on <URL> )
The answer depends on who you ask . The structural engineer would prefer a single wheel , and as few legs as possible , while the aerodynamicist would vote for 8 or 12 wheels , because then the bogie has less frontal area and can be accommodated even in thin wings . Generally , less than two wheels would compromise redundancy , and more are needed to reduce local ground pressure . Remember that the A-300B was initially not allowed on some US airports because of a slightly higher ground pressure . See <URL> for more . Modern designs use two wheels per strut for redundancy when the aircraft is light enough and replace them with a bogie with as many wheels as necessary to carry higher aircraft masses . The A-340-200 has gained a central strut with two wheels ( A-340-200 / 300 ) rsp . a 4-wheel bogie ( A-340-500 / 600 ) , while the equally large , but lighter A-330 uses just the two 4-wheel main gears without the central gear . Airbus could have used two six-wheel bogies , but preferred to keep commonality with the A-330 gear . More than 6 wheels per bogie is very unusual , but there are exceptions : Since the Tu-144 had no thrust reversers , all braking had to be done by the wheel brakes . Additionally , the bogies needed to fit between the intake ducts inside the nacelles , so the final design used 8 wheels with the large housings of the disc brakes sticking out towards the center of the bogie . Tupolev Tu-144 landing gear ( picture <URL> ) . This particular aircraft is parked in the back yard of the Aviation Institute in Kazan . If you want to know how this 8-wheeled monster would fit inside a supersonic airliner , read the answers to <URL> . Convair experimented with different tire sizes for the <URL> and even a tracked version . The initial single wheel design resulted in the biggest aircraft tire ever produced , but in the end the conventional ( but novel at this time ) 4-wheel bogie was preferred because the single wheel had too much ground pressure for most US airbases . Earlier airplanes had used 2-wheel bogies ( Tupolev TB-3 , Junkers G-38 ) or a pair of wheels left and right of the strut ( Douglas DC-4 ) . XB-36 ( first prototype of the B-36 ) taking off ( picture <URL> ) When Air India ordered their first A320s , they were afraid the main wheel pressure would be too much for some Indian airfields . Airbus produced a version with a four-wheel bogie instead of the usual two-wheel main gear of the regular A320 . When they later ordered the A321 , India seemed to have improved their airfields , because the newer planes use the regular two-wheel gear which is mechanically simpler and needs less maintenance . <URL> Air India A320 ( picture <URL> )
end question
start question
Flight Level Change or Vertical Speed - When to use it ?
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
end question
start question
Obtaining Captain 's name on historical flights ?
Generally , no . As a matter of protecting employees ' privacy , that sort of information is n't typically made available beyond what a passenger may notice ( nametags ) or remember from a PA ( " This is Captain Smith ... " ) . In an unusual situation , it might be possible to get a name by contacting the airline , but it 's probably unlikely that you 'd get an answer back unless the pilot happened to call or write back to you . Which could happen , but not often .
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
First , you have to remember on some configurations , the lower stages of flap will mostly add drag and very little lift . Sometimes that extra notch of full flaps is only there to change the camber of the wing to add a bit of a nose down attitude to help with visibility on landing . Both are items you do not require on takeoff . Now , when selecting flaps for take-off there are two things to consider : runway length and obstacles to clear after the runway : Runway Length Generally when lowering flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ ( the speed at which you become airborne , " minimum unstick speed " ) will decrease . This means a shorter runway for normal stages of flaps . As you continue to add more flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ will be lower , but because of the added drag , which decreases acceleration , it will actually take a longer distance to reach that lower $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ . There is a sweet spot in-between , though . " Take-off Flaps " is not always designed to give you the shortest takeoff roll . Obstacle Clearance And that is because once airborne , the more flaps you have deployed , the higher the drag , the less excess thrust available , thus the less you can climb . Simply put , you are now flying at a low speed and barely climbing . Not a good idea if there are tall trees waiting for you at the end of the runway . It would be illegal to take-off on full flaps if : POH says it is prohibited , or For commercial flying , if the flap setting does not provide the minimum required gross obstacle clearance climb gradient ( depending on the type of operation and number of engines , between 2.4 % -3.0 % ) .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
The clock needs to be positioned such that you can see it easily as part of your instrument scan , and the sweep second hand needs to be there to make it easy to time intervals that are not whole minutes . The regulation has been there for a long time , so the requirement should be considered in the light of how things used to be as well as what they are now . A very practical example from 1969 follows . The regulation predates that by many years , I am sure , but the 1969 environment shows the need . You 're in a light single engine airplane ( think Cessna 150 and later a Cessna 172 ) . You 're working on your instrument rating in actual conditions in the Pacific Northwest in a non-radar environment . You 're in moderate turbulence and having to keep on eye on the icing . And , though it seems ridiculous now , we did n't use headsets but instead picked up a mic for each transmission , of which there were many because in the non-radar environment there were lots of reports . You 're inbound to the VOR on the airport , after which you 'll proceed outbound to the NDB that is the final approach fix . Once at the NDB , you will fly 30 seconds farther outbound on the Rwy 16 ILS , which by the way since you have no HSI you 're having to navigate by reverse sensing on the old VOR/ILS CDI with its swinging left/right needle . At the 30 second point , you 're to turn right to the procedure turn outbound course and fly for 45 seconds ( but maybe if that wind is from the east you should go for 60 seconds - better watch that CDI needle to see how fast you get full deflection ) . Oh , damn , the instructor just covered up the directional gyro to simulate its failure . Now your only heading reference is the wet compass , which is bouncing around in the turbulence , and , besides , you ca n't remember whether it 's going to precede or lag ( and by how much ) in the turn you have to make to reverse course for the inbound leg of the procedure turn . Ah , but wait , all you have have to do is fly a standard-rate turn for 60 seconds and you 'll be in good shape . So , thus far , we 've had three separate needs to time things to seconds in a situation where we have our hands full - left hand on the yoke , right hand for throttle , carb heat , microphone . Given all that , do you really want to have to keep pulling back the sleeve on your left arm to monitor a relatively small clock face ? Much better to have a larger clock face right in front of you on the instrument panel . Do we really need such a clock now ? Perhaps not , but it does n't hurt , and regulations are notoriously resistant to change . And does anybody actually fly procedure turns anymore ?
For subsonic aircraft , the nacelle lips need to be blunt and well rounded to accommodate the different flow regimes encountered during flight . At take-off ( right side of the image below ) , the engine will suck in surrounding air , so the stagnation line of the intake flow is well outside of the center of the lip , whereas in cruise ( left side of the image below ) only the center stream tube of oncoming air is ingested , and much of the air flowing towards the nacelle is spilled over the sides . Accordingly , the stagnation line is well inside of the lip 's center . A sharper lip contour would lead to flow separation due to the small radius ( and hence the rapid change in direction ) the flow would have to endure . <URL> Image from Aerodynamic Design of Transport Aircraft by Ed Obert , 2009 Added to this is the influence of angle of attack , which will shift the stagnation line up or down on the lip . Sideslip will shift it left and right . Nacelles are mounted far ahead of the wing not only for flutter suppression , but also to reduce the wing 's influence on the intake flow . I doubt that the added variations of sideslip would be stronger than those of angle of attack , so I agree with @fooot that more bluntness on the side is unusual . Earlier designs used less blunt lips and had problems with flow separation in the intake at low speed , which led to the addition of <URL> . Today , the intake is optimized with <URL> and this means that the radius may be continuously changing over the circumference , due to the influence of wing and fuselage on the flow around the nacelle . Here I have to disagree with @fooot , because accessories are mounted close to the engine , and intake lips are quite a bit ahead of the engine face in order to equalize the flow . The flow speed at the engine face is around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 , so the intake has to accelerate or decelerate the flow quite a bit , without separation or much cross flow . A lot of that happens already outside of the intake , but still needs some intake length , and most accessories are so far away from the intake lip that they do not influence it 's thickness .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
The speed limits were set by FAA in the early days of jet age for better control of the aircraft and safety where the air traffic ( in VFR ) is the densest and have little to do with noise . FAR § 91.117 states Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator , no person may operate an aircraft below 10,000 feet MSL at an indicated airspeed of more than 250 knots ( 288 m.p.h. ) . TWA Flight 553 , a DC 9 <URL> a Beechcraft Baron , killing 26 people on March 9 , 1967 . NTSB investigation determined that due to the high rate of descent of the DC-9 , its pilots were not able to see the other plane in time to avoid a collision . Following this accident the FAA issued Advisory Circular 90-32 titled ' Air traffic control and general operations , radar capabilities and limitations ' in Aug 1967 . According to <URL> on the accident , The FAA has adopted a rule establishing that all aircraft flying below 10,000 ft m.s.l will be limited to a maximum speed of 250kts effective December 15 , 1967 ... ( to ) provide a more realistic ' see and avoid ' environment in the airspace below 10,000 feet mean sea level ( MSL ) where the traffic congestion is greatest ...
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
This particular flight was a Boeing 747 flying from YSSY ( Sidney ) to SCEL ( Santiago ) . Because a 747 has more than two engines , they do n't have specific time limits on how far from land that they can fly like two engine airplanes do . That being said , they do have to carry enough fuel to make it to a suitable airport in the event that the airplane depressurizes or it has an engine failure at any point along their route .1 . This does n't mean that they have to make it all of the way to their destination in the event of a problem though . They use en-route diversion airports and have predefined points on their flight plan which tell them where to divert to at any given point during the flight . You will notice on this flight ( see the images below ) that their planned route is considerably further North than the shorter great circle route . This is probably so that they can use NTAA ( Tahiti ) as a diversion airport if they have a problem . The route is also optimized for the current winds at the cruising altitude , so it may be more fuel efficient to go out of the way in order to have more favorable winds . In this case , without seeing their actual dispatch paperwork we ca n't know for sure whether or not they could have even flown the great circle route with the amount of fuel that the airplane can hold , but we 'll just assume that they are using NTAA as an ETOPS airport for the purposes of this discussion . That being said , we will use the following airports as our ETOPS diversion airports : NZCH , NTAA , and SCEL . In this case , their diversion plan in the event of an emergency would probably be something like this : From takeoff ( YSSY ) until a point a little less than half way to NZCH ( New Zealand ) 2 they would divert back to their point of departure2 From a little less than half way to NZCH until a point around 46W52 they would divert to NZCH . Between the points that would be around 46W52 and 47W25 they would divert to NTAA . After 47W25 they would continue on to their destination ( SCEL ) because it would be faster than turning around and going back to any of the other airports . Each of the points takes wind into consideration , and as they pass each one they will always know which airport that they can reach in the least amount of time . The most important thing is that they always have enough fuel to make it somewhere safe in the event of an emergency . Filed Route Great Circle Route 1 They also have to carry enough fuel to fly to their alternate airport and additional contingency fuel . One thing to keep in mind is that a jet burns considerably more fuel at low altitudes than they do at their optimum altitude , so they have to carry a lot of extra fuel to meet this ( and other ) requirement . 2 If they turned around at the exact halfway point , it would take them longer to return than to continue because of the East winds . Regulations For those of you interested in the actual fuel requirements for a flight like this , the US regulations are listed in <URL> . I 'll use these as an example ( other countries will be very similar , but I know these . ) You will notice that almost every line of the regulations listed here will require extra fuel to be on board the airplane . ( Look for the ✈ symbol next to each one that I have added . ) Fortunately , it is n't quite as bad as it looks though , because some of the fuel that is pumped into the airplane can be used for more than one purpose . For instance , a portion of the fuel may be used to divert to an ETOPS airport and used to fly to your destination , because they will only be doing one or the other . The pertinent regulations are summarized here : <URL> ... ( b ) For any certificate holder conducting flag or supplemental operations outside the 48 contiguous United States and the District of Columbia , unless authorized by the Administrator in the operations specifications , no person may release for flight or takeoff a turbine-engine powered airplane ( other than a turbo-propeller powered airplane ) unless , considering wind and other weather conditions expected , it has enough fuel -- ✈ ( 1 ) To fly to and land at the airport to which it is released ; ✈ ( 2 ) After that , to fly for a period of 10 percent of the total time required to fly from the airport of departure to , and land at , the airport to which it was released ; ✈ ( 3 ) After that , to fly to and land at the most distant alternate airport specified in the flight release , if an alternate is required ; and ✈ ( 4 ) After that , to fly for 30 minutes at holding speed at 1,500 feet above the alternate airport ( or the destination airport if no alternate is required ) under standard temperature conditions . ... <URL> ( a ) No person may dispatch or release for flight a turbine-engine powered airplane with more than two engines for a flight more than 90 minutes ( with all engines operating at cruise power ) from an Adequate Airport unless the following fuel supply r
The USDOT has a list off things related to this <URL> but there are many factors . International Travel : Since flights often go between countries that also means they cross jurisdictions . Many countries have varying laws on importing and exporting different animals . As such airlines may not always allow you to carry animals since it may not be legal . Contamination : Animals can carry a wide variety of disease and other things . An airline my chose to not carry animals to avoid any potential issues . Even if in the cargo hold it can not be guaranteed that the animals fur wont come in contact with another passengers baggage . If that passenger had an allergy to that type of fur they may later have an issue . Food : Placing an animal in the baggage hold prevents anyone from effectively feeding the animal which the DOT does seem to have some regulations on for longer flights . Temperature : Although it is pressurized the baggage compartment is by no means warm . This prevents a potentially dangerous situation for animals as well . As for bringing an animal on the plane ( aside from service animals which are not considered animals ) . It would seem that the FAA leaves this specific matter up to the airlines . According to <URL> when it comes to What are the FAA rules regarding traveling with pets in the passenger cabin ? The Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) allows each airline to decide if they will allow you to travel with your pet in the passenger cabin . If an airline does allow you to bring your pet into the cabin , we consider your pet container to be carry-on baggage and you must follow all carry on baggage rules ( 14 CFR part 121 , section 121.589 ) :
Yes , cargo aircraft are like other aircraft in that there is generally at least a jump seat available . Especially larger aircraft will also have <URL> . This area can be used for relief crew , or other crew that are <URL> . There are exceptions though . The upper deck of the 747 is <URL> than just the cockpit , even on the <URL> <URL> . There is more room in the back for additional crew . The <URL> and An-225 also have additional space for crew behind the cockpit . The extra crew can be loadmasters , navigators , mechanics , or other functions that can make it easier to operate in and out of airports with less services available . Here is the upper deck of a 747-400F : <URL>
The short answer is that you keep checking everything in the aircraft is doing what it should . For light piston GA operations , one common acronym for en route checks is FREDA . Here are some things that could be included ( pilots often use their own checklists for things like this ) : Fuel . How much have I burned ? Is my navigation log up to date ? Have I burned the amount I expected ? How much longer can I fly for before I have to land ? Which airports are within my current range ring ? Is it time to switch tanks ? Is the aircraft still within weight and balance limits ? Is the airport where I planned to refuel still the right place to go ? Radios . Do I have all my radios set to correct and useful frequencies ? How am I going to identify my next waypoint ? Do I need to tune and identify a new VOR ? Have things been suspiciously silent for a while ? Should I file a PIREP ? Do I need to tell ATC I need a deviation for weather ? What 's the latest weather information from ADS-B or another source ? Can I guess which frequency ATC is going to hand me off to next ? Did ATC ask me to report at a certain time or place ? Engine . Are all temperatures , pressures , gauges etc. showing the values I expect ? Have I leaned the mixture properly ? Are the exhaust gas temperatures correct ? Is manifold pressure correct for this altitude ? Has anything changed unexpectedly since the last time I checked them ? If the engine dies right now , where am I going to land ? DI to compass . Reset the directional indicator to match the wet compass , to avoid gyroscopic precession errors . Altitude . Is this altitude correct for my current heading ? Is this the altitude I was assigned ? If I lose comms now , what altitude should I fly at ? Do I know what terrain is below me ? What 's ADS-B showing me right now ? Any potential traffic conflicts ? If I encounter icing here , will I descend , climb , or turn around ? Is the autopilot correctly configured ? Have I entered the current altimeter setting in all the instruments ? After you 've worked through all that , it 's usually time to go back to the beginning and start again :-) Of course , there are plenty of other things that pilots are likely to be doing , like having drinks or snacks , taking pictures , admiring the view , listening to music , trying to find their spare headset batteries at the bottom of their flight bag , and so on . But an IFR flight - or any flight - is never just sitting back between waypoints and waiting for ATC to call . The point of the constant checks is to detect any problems as soon as possible . For example , if you notice the oil pressure dropping gradually , you can take action while you still have engine power ; if the first you know about it is that the engine suddenly stops then you have a big problem . Not only have you lost engine power , you 're also not mentally ' primed ' to deal with the situation and that could turn a tricky situation into a dangerous one .
Bear in mind that these tests were n't to prove the safety of the aircraft per se , just to show that it would work as an airliner . It had to be loaded up with an appropriate complement of passengers and luggage to prove this . However proving flights may not generate revenue from passengers - they are either selected through an application process or chosen at random , and take part in the proceedings free of charge . <URL> ( Page 2 , point 3 )
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
Airplanes are expected by air traffic control to turn at a " standard rate of turn " which is 3 degrees per second . This will provide a 90 degree turn in 30 seconds . A standard rate is used so that controllers can anticipate how long it takes for an airplane to turn to a heading and they can line them up easier . It also makes the turn happen in a smaller amount of airspace so that two airplanes can be flying in the same general vicinity without getting too close . Unfortunately , at the speeds that jet airplanes travel this would mean a very high angle of bank . A standard rate turn at 200 KT TAS is about 30 degrees of bank and jets can go much faster than this , which would require even higher bank angles . They actually limit it to 25 degrees of bank when using a flight director , mainly for passenger comfort . It can be impressive when looking out the window and seeing the ground , but do n't worry , the airplane is more than designed for it ! This is used mainly at lower altitudes where there are lots of airplanes . Once they are up high and airplanes are further apart ( and the turns are also usually smaller ) they can bank even less ( by using a " half-bank " mode ) which adds to passenger comfort .
In normal operations there are regulations against this sort of thing ( as Dave has said ) . But there have been a few emergencies where the First Office or the Captain have become incapacitated ( due to medical emergencies ) , and the remaining pilot has declined to ask if there is another pilot on board to help fly the plane . Here is an example from 2011 of a <URL> ** , I have heard of others but ca n't find references . So , admittedly , that may be the only actual occurrence . So , to finally answer your questions : Very rarely , in an emergency situation , there can be a single pilot on a commercial airliner . Granted , there were passengers on board , so I 'm not sure it fits your narrow definition of " solo " , but it 's about as close as it 's going to get . For completeness ( though I do n't think it counts ) , there have been a few instances of a single pilot stealing a commercial jetliner . For example <URL> . There were actually two people involved , one was a mechanic , the other had a private pilots license ( hence the pilot was " soloing " ) . The aircraft has not been seen since ... so it 's assumed it ended badly , and , for the record , it 's also assumed the pilot was coerced ( if indeed he was even flying the plane ) . There are a couple more incidents , namely this <URL> , which was stolen by a mechanic , circled for an hour , then crashed . And also this <URL> , which was actually stolen by a Captain form Air Botswana . He circled the airport for a couple of hours demanding to speak to everyone from his girlfriend , to his boss to the President of Botswana . They were actually arranging to have him speak with the president when he crashed his plane into two other Air Botswana ATR-42-320s that were parked on the ground . He was the only one killed . Again , though , I 'm not sure if these fit the criteria you are looking for . But in that last one , at very least , he was the only person on board the aircraft , it was a commercial aircraft and he was in fact a Captain . But to say all this an irregularity would be an extreme understatement ... ** For clarification : The reason I state this is the only example I could find is because it 's the only one where I could find a report where it was specifically stated the remaining pilot had no help . To quote from the report : Once the initial Cabin Crew assistance was complete , the Captain indicated that he did not need assistance in operating the aircraft , although this was suggested in the operator 's procedures for pilot incapacitation . The First Officer took no further part in the operation of the aircraft . No inquiries as to the possible presence on board the aircraft of either medically trained personnel or qualified pilots were made . All other examples I saw either specifically stated that a new co-pilot was found , or they skipped that detail entirely . All of that being said , I somehow doubt this is the only case , it 's just the only one I could explicitly verify .
Qualification : I worked at a sport parachute center as an instructor for 10 years and I hold an FAA Master Parachute Rigger certificate . I believe that qualifies me as an expert on the subject . The majority of the above other statements here are correct . In summary : The door of a pressurized passenger plane can not be opened in flight for the stated reasons . the door of most larger passenger planes can not be opened in flight after you depressurize the cabin because they swing forward . Push a sheet of plywood against a thunderstorm-grade wind and see how well you do . Now multiply the wind speed by 5 . even if you blow the door out with explosives , the chances of an orderly exit are slim . At airliner speeds an orderly exit is critical if you expect to survive the jump . Street clothes will be torn to shreds . Oh , and it 's COLD up there . you can not depressurize an aircraft over 12,000 feet altitude without the passengers passing out rather quickly . If you can control the plane down to this altitude , you do n't need the parachutes . it is extremely difficult to exit an unstable aircraft that is built for sport parachuting ( in-flight door , suitable handles , door already open ) . If the plane is spinning and you are beside the door you might get tossed out and then struck by other parts of the airframe . If it 's a larger plane and the door ( or you ) are away from the current axis of rotation , good luck . Yes , jumpers have successfully exited a crippled jump plane . None of them want to try it again . modern sport parachutes use steerable ram-air canopies . Jump one of these without any training and you will hurt yourself landing . Most emergency parachutes are round . Jump one of those without any training and you will break something when you land . 200 untrained people jumping ram-air canopies all at once will result in a number of collisions and entanglements , which are typically fatal for all involved . exiting an airplane below 1000 feet is really not practical . I would do it IF a ) the plane is currently under control ; b ) landing is not practical ; c ) It 's really 1000 feet , not less ; d ) I 'm sitting beside the door . Possible scenario is the engine goes boom and I know there 's nothing but rocky land ahead of us . Of course my gear is already on my back ready to go , and I know how to use it . There have been many cases of a jump plane experiencing engine problems on the way up . By the time the pilot turns around , the cabin is usually empty . There have also been cases where jump planes have crashed on takeoff . None of the ( very experienced ) jumpers on board thought about anything other than tightening the seatbelt . Points I disagree with : ( although they do not change the outcome ) Emergency parachutes ( seat-pack types ) are available for far less than sport rigs . Maybe $ 1,500 each . Weight around 8-10kg . Putting a purpose-built one on would be not much more complicated than a 4-point harness . This was seriously considered back in the 1950 's - aircraft seats were designed with parachutes built in . Planes were neither pressurized nor fast back then . Think DC-3 era - the DC-3 makes a great jump plane , I have used one a few times . maintenance costs would be no more than the escape slides , flotation gear or other similar equipment .
end question
start question
Does the downwash created by induced drag increase or decrease lift ?
It is not " this causes that " - all is happening together . Let me explain : For me to understand aerodynamics , it helped to disregard all that talk of vortices and induction , but focus on the pressure field around a wing . When the theory of flight was developed , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that electric induction could be transferred to lift . Now every author still copies the explanations from a century ago , but they are totally unintuitive . Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects . Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they experience . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour , but not without spreading out ( = pressure loss ) . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . What is lift ? Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Induced drag The misconception about those " wingtip vortices " and induced drag is hard to eradicate . Most authors copy what has been written before without clearly understanding the issue . Therefore I repeat it here again : <URL> is the <URL> of the <URL> . The vortices are only a consequence of downwash , which in turn is a consequence of lift creation . At the same speed , more induced drag is indeed linked to more lift , but the causality is different : Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
Oh , but they are all * correct ! First , we have to say that we are not talking about cause here . There is a flow around the wing and it has certain properties and neither is cause of the other ; they are both effects of the flow . What we are talking about here is explanations why every flow that produces lift also produces induced drag . And as far as explanations go , there can be more than one , because the physical theories have a lot of redundancy in them . You can usually arrive at the result by multiple ways . You can use the orientations of the normals ( the <URL> answer ) , you can use laws of conservation of energy and momentum ( <URL> answer ) or you can use the <URL> and that explanation will indeed involve the wake vortices . Because the potential flow theory is a mathematical apparatus for analysing fluid flow as a combination of vortices and from that angle of view , the energy is indeed carried away by the wake vortices . However , the wake vortex explanation has one problem : it is often associated with different misconception , the one that the vortices are caused by transverse flow around the tip and the resulting idea that it can be eliminated by doing something with the tips specifically . But that 's not what the potential flow theory says . According to the potential flow theory , there is a vortex originating from every point along the span and they combine to form the two tip vortices . So like the other explanations , it also clearly says the induced drag is related to any generation of lift . And if you understand that , it is correct . I still consider it unnecessarily more complicated . * All the three you listed that is . The ones that claim the wingtip vortex is caused by transverse flow around the tip are not , because it is n't . The wingtip vortex is just the vortex line of the overall wake ( and should preferably be called wake vortex ) .
The flaps on a glider wing are mainly for <URL> of the wing to the right lift coefficient . Yes , they help to increase maximum lift , too , but for gliding this is less relevant . The goal in glider flying is to get in the shortest time from A to B . This can be achieved by flying faster than the best glide speed , because it gives the pilot more time to climb up in the next thermal . <URL> . You can read a great discussion about the finer points of this speed-to-fly theory <URL> , courtesy of John Cochrane . A fixed airfoil needs to have a wide laminar bucket , so drag can be minimised both when gliding and thermalling . This , however , will result in a less deep bucket which means that the drag coefficient within the bucket is higher than for a flap airfoil with optimum flap setting . Since adjusting the flap allows one to shift the laminar bucket to the desired lift coefficient , the laminar bucket of a flap airfoil can be made narrower and deeper . The direct answer to your question is : no , negative flaps do not increase the maximum glide ratio but help to fly fast at low airfoil drag . If you look at the L/D at high speed / low lift coefficients , then yes , negative flaps improve the L/D at that part of the polar . They also help to limit the maximum lift a wing can produce and allow to fly faster in gusty weather . Positive flaps reduce both drag at high lift coefficients and sink rate , and they are essential to reach the polar point of minimum sink in high performance gliders because that optimum is at very high lift coefficients due to the high aspect ratio of the wings . If you fly fast with positive flaps you will greatly increase drag and the sink rate , however .
When preparing for a flight , pilots will calculate many things , including their rotation speed . This is the speed in their takeoff roll at which they will start to pitch up , and hopefully the plane <URL> . The rotation speed is dependent on many things such as temperature , altitude , and aircraft weight . My answer <URL> discusses the lift calculations in relation to rotation . That question covered the importance of speed related to weight . More speed is needed to create the lift to take off with a higher weight . When the airplane rotates , it increases the angle of attack of the wing , which increases the lift coefficient ( if the wing does not stall ) . The pilots will pitch up at a certain rate , and they do not stop until they reach a climbout attitude higher than what is possible when the main gear is still on the ground ( <URL> ) . They count on the plane acheiving enough lift during rotation to leave the ground so that they pass that maximum pitch while in the air . If pilots underestimate their weight , they will calculate a lower speed than is necessary to provide the lift for takeoff . This means that when they rotate , the plane does n't have enough airspeed yet to create enough lift to take off . So instead of leaving the ground before fully pitching up , the tail strikes the runway . It may seem like an easy mistake to make , but thousands of pilots do it every day without a problem .
The FAA 's <URL> says that it 's about formatting : Q : Will an FPL be automatically rejected or is that a manual function ? A : ERAS automatically rejects an improperly formatted FPL . The Rejection ( REJ ) message usually includes information which identifies the error . The filer should correct the error and reenter the FPL . That seems to be confirmed in this <URL> that goes into detail on computerized flight plan formats , filing etc. . Section 3.7.2 lists all the possible reasons for the ERAS computer to return a REJ ( rejected ) message , and they 're all to do with formatting or invalid values , e.g. airspeed ca n't be zero . To me , that makes sense : no one knows the equipment or capabilities of an aircraft except the person ( or organization ) submitting the flight plan . Even if the FAA had a database of every aircraft in the world , what happens if your GPS unit burns out and you want to file IFR using only standard IFR equipment ( VOR , ILS ) ? Or you want to fly at a reduced ( or increased ) cruise speed for some mechanical or performance testing reason ? The FAA could n't possibly know if your submitted values are correct . I do n't know ( and could n't find out ) if there 's any situation where <URL> ca n't generate a <URL> even though the flight plan is accepted as valid . If it does happen , I suppose that would be a sort of secondary check . As an aside , I was at an <URL> meeting last week and we discussed the new ICAO flight plan format ( new to the US , that is ! ) . A couple of controllers were there , and they said that you have to be careful about what equipment you put in your flight plan in case you get assigned something beyond the pilot 's capabilities . For example , a Cirrus is <URL> and if you input all the equipment correctly in the flight plan then you may get a complex SID rather than just departure vectors . If you are n't familiar and comfortable with the avionics then you might get yourself in trouble , so it would be better to file only basic avionics . That kind of decision is n't something the FAA could or should validate .
There are basically two effects here : One is the ducted fan effect . Ducted fans are more efficient than open fans , specifically creating smaller vortices at the blade tips . The other is the fact that the tail rotor of a helicopter is not situated in an area with almost linear airflow along the rotor axis . It is also submitted to : A steady flow due to helicopter forward motion . This is coming from the side of the rotor , so affects opposite rotor blades differently . A buffeting flow from the h/c main rotor . This is an unsteady flow , also coming laterally from the point of view of the tail rotor ( actually , the top ) . Fenestron tail-rotor ducts can be considered a fairing that reduces airflow across the rotor . The end result is that the rotor blades are in a much smoother flow that helps reduce unwanted turbulence . This is one of the reasons such rotors are quieter than regular open tail-rotors ( the other being the fairing material absorbing some of the noise ) .
Induced drag is caused by the backward inclination of the lift vector . Lift is defined as the aerodynamic force perpendicular to the flow direction , and since lift is created by <URL> , the resulting force is slightly inclined backwards . The formula for the deflection angle ( called <URL> ) $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ To arrive at the drag , you now need to multiply the local lift with this angle . For small $ \ alpha_w $ s the arcus tangens can be neglected , and we get this familiar looking equation for the backwards-pointing component of the aerodynamic force : $ $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot AR } = \ frac { \ alpha_w ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot AR } { 4 } $ $ Now consider a wing which will do this unevenly over the wingspan . Some parts create a lot of lift and , therefore , a lot of downward deflection . Others produce less lift and less deflection . Due to the quadratic dependency of induced drag with downwash angle , the sum of all parts will always be higher when there are variations in the local downwash angle over span . Only the wing with a <URL> will have the minimum induced drag for a given lift . This is not necessarily an elliptic wing . By selecting the right twist ( incidence variation over wingspan ) , any planform can be made to produce a constant downwash angle , albeit at only one angle of attack . Only the elliptic wing will combine the constant downwash angle over span with a constant lift coefficient over span such that variations in angle of attack still result in a constant downwash angle . This is strictly true only in inviscid flow and when elastic deformation and the weight of the wing ( which contributes to the need for lift and hence induced drag ) are not considered . Also , an elliptic wing will produce nasty stall characteristics . Adding handling , friction and structural weight will shift the optimum to wings which produce more lift near the center . The exact optimum also will depend on the absolute size of the wing because the structural mass fraction goes up with size due to <URL> . Nomenclature : $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ Induced drag coefficient $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ ; $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $
Of course gear doors create drag when open . The question is " how much ? " As you suspect , door drag is not the critical factor here . As usual the answer to your question is aircraft-specific , and your question is pointing to a generalized " old wive 's tale " which is only true sometimes . OK , what is the story behind the story ? <URL> . Watch the main gear as it enters/exits the storage wells in the fuselage . The axles of the wheels are close to parallel to the direction of flight , which means the wheels are being dragged broadside in the slipstream . A very high drag scenario which will affect aircraft performance . The POH recommendation is ( from memory , now ) to climb over critical obstacles on takeoff with the gear down , and raise the gear only when the obstacle is cleared . The attached video shows why . This advice does not pertain to all planes . Know your plane , read the POH . Oh ... and ask questions here !
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
I 'll start by pointing out from <URL> that -- [ The RVR ] values obtained are not a reliable guide to what a pilot can actually expect to see . This can easily be demonstrated by the fact that when obscuration such as fog is variable , different values can apply simultaneously at the same physical point . They give an example for that . The answer to your question is yes it 's possible to use the midpoint RVR if the touchdown RVR is inoperative . But , authorization is required , and it can not be used for ILS CAT II and III . If the touchdown RVR VS is inoperative , some operators may be authorized , via OpSpecs , MSpecs , or an LOA , to substitute an operative mid-point RVR VS for visibility minima greater than or equal to 1,800 RVR . Source : <URL>
The plane was certified with US Gallons . Use those for fuel consumption . The conversion tables are there in case your FBO 's fuel pump is calibrated in L or Imp Gal .
It is not " this causes that " - all is happening together . Let me explain : For me to understand aerodynamics , it helped to disregard all that talk of vortices and induction , but focus on the pressure field around a wing . When the theory of flight was developed , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that electric induction could be transferred to lift . Now every author still copies the explanations from a century ago , but they are totally unintuitive . Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects . Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they experience . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour , but not without spreading out ( = pressure loss ) . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . What is lift ? Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Induced drag The misconception about those " wingtip vortices " and induced drag is hard to eradicate . Most authors copy what has been written before without clearly understanding the issue . Therefore I repeat it here again : <URL> is the <URL> of the <URL> . The vortices are only a consequence of downwash , which in turn is a consequence of lift creation . At the same speed , more induced drag is indeed linked to more lift , but the causality is different : Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
This call serves two main purposes . The first is to verify that both airspeed indicators are showing the same speed . Since airspeed = life , it 's best to find out that one of them is faulty on the ground rather than in the air . The second purpose is to distinguish a high-speed rejected takeoff from a low-speed one . Below 80kts ( or 100kts or another speed set by the manufacturer and/or airline ) , a takeoff would be rejected for almost anything out of the ordinary . But rejecting a takeoff at high speed carries a lot of risk - like brake fires , tyres exploding , directional control difficulty , etc. . So above 80 or so knots , a takeoff will only be rejected in the case of major failures . Some modern aircraft even inhibit minor warnings from appearing after 80kts until the aircraft is airborne , because rejecting the takeoff is not worth the risk , so do n't saturate the pilots with unnecessary information . <URL> goes into some detail about what you would reject a takeoff for at low speed vs high speed . The criteria may vary slightly amongst airlines but the general themes are the same .
The C-130 uses pressurized bleed air for leading-edge and window anti-ice . The props are deiced with electric heaters in the prop . <URL> The C-130 is very often used in places that experience icing . For example , the US Air Force flies the C-130 as a cargo/transport aircraft for Antarctic and Greenland operations : <URL> <URL>
The general FAA regulation on turbine engines on airliners is § 25.939 § 25.939 Turbine engine operating characteristics . ( a ) Turbine engine operating characteristics must be investigated in flight to determine that no adverse characteristics ( such as stall , surge , or flameout ) are present , to a hazardous degree , during normal and emergency operation within the range of operating limitations of the airplane and of the engine . ( b ) [ Reserved ] ( c ) The turbine engine air inlet system may not , as a result of air flow distortion during normal operation , cause vibration harmful to the engine . The FAA has published Advisory Circular 25.939-1 which provides more detail as to how this regulation should be met . The takeoff phase is critical for safety , so the FAA requires testing to show that : No adverse engine operating characteristics ( mild , moderate , or severe ) should exist after the power setting phase ( normally completed by 60 to 80 knots ) of the takeoff procedure through attainment of the enroute configuration and climb to 1,500 ft. above the airport . The " adverse operating characteristics " are defined in more detail earlier in the AC . So to answer the question , no , it is required by law that jet engines have no issue with takeoffs in crosswinds . The faster an aircraft is moving , the less the crosswind airspeed component is . Once the aircraft is flying , aside from control inputs or changes in the atmosphere , the air stream comes from straight ahead . The highest amount of relative crosswind will actually occur while the aircraft is sitting on the ground . Note that unlike the takeoff phase : Taxiing : No adverse engine operating characteristics ( mild , moderate , or severe ) should exist during taxiing except for operation in crosswinds and tailwinds where mild adverse operating characteristics are acceptable .
It 's different for everyone , but I 'd expect stress/anxiety to be a contributing factor for many , which is an ultimately self-defeating cycle ; if you " know " you 're going to get sick , you 'll be anxious about that , and that 'll make you sick . The trigger for me is inadequate ventilation . I 'm fortunate enough to rarely get motion sickness , but when it does happen it 's usually because I 'm in a hot , still cabin without a good source of fresh air .
The probability of two jets surviving such a close encounter are extremely remote . Setting aside the fact that it is difficult to imagine two aircraft flying in the same altitude in opposite directions ( commercial aircraft are separated by 3 miles laterally and 1000 ft. vertically ) , if the scenario unfolds as in the movie and the horizontal separation between the aircraft on approach is as shown , the pilots would not have time to react and take the necessary evasive actions . Assuming that the jets are cruising towards each other at 900 kmph , the combined speed is around 1800 kmph , or half a kilometer per second . If the TCAS is not working and the aircraft come within five km ( the distance in the video is considerably lower , less than a km ) of each other , the pilots have less than 10 seconds to get out of each other 's way . The civil aircrafts are not designed for such rapid roll rates . The inertia of the aircraft ( especially the 747 ) will limit it . Another thing to note is that the modern flight control systems will not allow airline pilots to carry the maneuvers shown in the flight . The pilot can override the Flight control Computer.However , in this case , they would not have time to react . If by some miracle the aircrafts cross each other , they will fly right into the other aircraft 's wake turbulence , which will have disastrous consequences , especially for the smaller aircraft . <URL> Sources : airpower.maxwell.af In case of small aircraft flying behind a heavy jet , FAA regulations require a minimum separation of 5 miles , lesser than which the effect of the wake turbulence ( wingtip vortices ) can have serious consequences . <URL> Source : Aeronautical Information Manual FAA conducted <URL> on the effects of wake turbulence by flying a 737 behind a 727 , which shows the loss of control associated with flying in the wake of another aircraft . Once ( if ) the aircraft pass each other , they should be brought to level flight as quickly as possible ( whether it is possible or not is another question ) to prevent stall . In this critical juncture , if the aircraft wings encounter wake turbulence , the control of the aircraft will be loss , resulting in stall . Finally , in case two aircraft do approach each other in the same altitude in opposite directions , there are laid down procedures to follow . None of them involve the stunt shown in the movie . When two aircraft are flying head on , each must move to their right . <URL> Source : planefinder.net If two aircraft are at the same height and on converging courses , the aircraft with the other on its starboard side has to give way . <URL> Source : planefinder.net
I think you are missing some physics knowledge , so let 's start from here : If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound <URL> is a compression wave that travels through air . Given a certain air temperature , the sound will travel at <URL> through the air . If a plane flies faster than the speed of sound means that the compression waves it is generating will remain behind the aircraft : image from <URL> will he be able to overtake his own sound and hear itself ? As you can see on the right picture , if the aircraft is travelling faster that the speed of sound , the compression waves it generated in the past will remain behind . If it would stop/slow down , the waves would then catch up with the plane and a person on board would be theoretically capable of hearing them .
The concept of lift force per unit span comes from <URL> . It will need some background information to explain what it means , so bear with me . In the early years of flight , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that the <URL> worked equally well when calculating the local flow change effected by a wing . What is the electrical current in a wire became the vorticity in a vortex , and the strength and orientation of the induced magnetic field were equivalent to the induced flow changes . So the vocabulary of electricity was copied over to aerodynamics , just like brain research used vocabulary from computer science when that was a hot topic . Now we are left with abstract concepts like induced drag or lift per unit span . It would be so much more descriptive to use proper names , but the authors of technical books learned it that way and are much too lazy to explain aerodynamics any better . In <URL> , you have sources , sinks and vortices . Sources and sinks are used to generate the displacement effect of a physical body moving through air , and vortices are used to explain why wings bend the flow and create lift . In order to calculate the lift force $ L$ of a single vortex in two-dimensional flow , the circulation strength $ \ Gamma $ of the vortex is multiplied by the airspeed $ u _ { \ infty } $ and air density $ \ rho $ . You will find an equation like $ L = - \ Gamma \ cdot u _ { \ infty } \ cdot \ rho $ in many treatises about numerical aerodynamics . To expand that into the third dimension ( and , consequently , into reality ) , you need to add something measured in spanwise direction - but you have already lift , and adding the third dimension would give a moment ( lift times distance ) where only lift would make sense . Therefore , this two-dimensional lift is now called " lift per unit of span " so there is still space for a third dimension where two-dimensional flow did already produce lift ( counter to any sound intuition ) . And no , this is never constant over span . In all cases the vorticity is gradually reduced towards the tips , or explained in a better way , the suction force acting on the wing is gradually reduced when you approach the tips because when the wing ends , nothing can prevent the air from flowing from the high-pressure region below to the low-pressure region on the upper surface of the wing . While the potential flow mentioned above is the mathematical way of looking at aircraft , lift coefficients are the engineer 's way of expressing things . From tests it was soon clear that the lift force of a wing scales with the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , that is the product of air density and the square of airspeed : $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . The next observation of engineers was that lift also scales with wing area $ S$ . To make the lifting force independent of wing size and dynamic pressure , they stripped both from the lift ( physical unit of Kilopond , Newton or pound-force ) so they arrived at a dimensionless figure which they called lift coefficient $ c_L $ . Doing so made it much easier to compare measurements or scale up known designs for the next , better design . The lift equation now becomes $ L = c_L \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $
Short answer : D'Alembert 's paradox always holds as <URL> : For incompressible and inviscid potential flow , the drag force is zero on a body moving with constant velocity relative to the fluid . Longer answer : Pressure drag is a viscous phenomenon . <URL> section 3.18 has an extended discussion of experimental results stating that the real flow over a circular cylinder is dominated by friction effects , namely , the separation of the flow over the rearward face of the cylinder . In turn , a finite pressure drag is created on the cylinder , and d’Alembert 's paradox is resolved . Anderson 3.15 and any number of online resources convincingly and rigorously prove that inviscid flow around a cylinder preserves d’Alembert 's paradox ( even when the cylinder is spinning and producing lift ) because there will always be cancellation of aerodynamic forces due to the symmetry of the flow field across the line concurrent with the lift vector . The easiest way to convince yourself that this is also true for airfoils is the conformal mapping technique explained in <URL> .
end question
start question
Why are podded engines preferred over engines fitted inside the fuselage or wing ?
Most important factor affecting drag is frontal area . Almost all frontal area of the engine pod is the intake and it has to have the size it does to collect the air the engine needs . So there is not so much drag to be saved . Beside that , embedding the engine in wing roots like <URL> did has many disadvantages , most of which also apply to the central engine of three-engined jets ( B727 , DC-10 ) : The wing root carries the weight of the aircraft , so weakening it by embedding the engine is design and construction complication . Access for maintenance is difficult . Engines need a lot of maintenance and sometimes need to be replaced . Uncontained failure is more dangerous ( see <URL> ) . There is not much structure to damp vibration , so it is awfully noisy . And last but not least , modern high-bypass turbofans are huge . They would not fit in the wing anyway . And reasons for not attaching the engines directly to the fuselage or wing are already mentined in <URL> . Mainly , the inlet needs : Free space around it from which it can draw air at slow speed . Free space around it to which it can spill the excess air at high speed . And the engines mounted forward of wing actually improve the distribution of cross-sectional area according to the <URL> .
Engines on airliners turn the same direction . The torque is n't as much an issue on jets as it is on props . A lot of multiengine prop planes have propellers that turn in opposite directions . In turbine engines this can be done in a gearbox to allow the same engine to be used on both sides . Some turbine engines , such as the PT6 , have two turbines turning in opposite directions , but the propeller friction produces additional torque in one direction . Single engine planes sometimes have the engine mounted at a slight angle to reduce the effect of the propwash ( and maybe torque ? ) . The propwash causes imbalance at low speed and high power when the descending blade tends to push air down over the wing on that side , and and vice versa for the ascending blade . Immediately after takeoff , the rudder of a single engine plane is normally depressed , to some extent , to make up for the uneven torque and propwash . This may be done manually , with trim settings , or both . At higher speeds , the effect of the propeller torque is not as noticeable because the wings are held " more tightly " by the airflow .
Small aircraft need very low mounted wings to allow for a decent cabin height . The last commercial airliner which required the passengers to climb over the wing spar on their way to their seat was the <URL> . Low wings do not allow the necessary space for engines , so the next best location is on the rear fuselage . Also , small aircraft have a relatively short fuselage , and the gear can be made short ( and light ) without risking a tail strike on rotation . Fighters need to have small moments of inertia , especially in roll , so they can not afford to put engines on the wings . Even the Me-262 was initially planned with fuselage-mounted engines , that 's why it had this peculiar triangular fuselage cross section . Only when the engines grew in diameter during development they had to be placed on the wing . Pros of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : The wing is clean , having low drag and optimum conditions for lift creation . The engines are easy to access ( if mounted at the rear fuselage . Different story with buried engines ! ) . Smaller vertical tail needed for asymmetric thrust conditions . Shorter , lighter landing gear possible ( if rotation capability is not compromised ) . Low roll inertia . Cons of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : No bending relief for the wing ; heavier wing spar needed . No help in flutter supression ( a mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) . Possible interference with wing wake at high angle of attack . Forces the tail to be a T-tail configuration . More structure needed to carry the thrust forces forward . Intake noise is more audible , especially for passengers in the rear seats . This picture of a Cessna Citation X should illustrate the point nicely .
I 'm not an engineer ( which might be better suited to answer this ) so this is from simplified things they feed pilots : Jet engines take much longer to spool up ( i.e. increase RPM ) than piston engines , especially at low RPM because of the pressure ratio/increased airflow necessary to keep the compressor from stalling/surging/blowing up every time when changing power settings . The ( simplified ) jet engine cycle contains a compressor that pushes air into a combustion chamber , where it burns , and then blows out the rear end rotating a turbine that moves the compressor from back where we started at . If you " add more power " ( i.e. put more fuel in ) it takes a while for that extra fuel to produce more thrust , which in turn takes a while to accelerate the turbine , which will make the compressor spin faster , which will finally bring more compressed air into the combustion chamber to utilize all that extra fuel you poured in at step 1 . Adding power all of a sudden will increase the pressure in the combustion chamber , so much that air that is " upstream " ( i.e still in the compressor ) does not want to advance . The extra pressure in the combustion chamber did not have enough time to spool up the turbine , so now the compressor is underpowered to keep " pushing " compressed air into the combustion chamber . Air starts flowing backwards ( i.e. from combustion chamber to compressor ) , engine surges , all hell breaks loose . So there is a lag ( electronically these days , the pilots can floor the trust levers as fast as they like ) when the engines are at low RPM , the FADEC only adds a little bit of extra fuel , waits for the airflow to stabilize , then adds a little more , and so on . I think the graph below might explain this . Every time you change RPM , you will increase Pressure Ratio ( i.e. move up the graph ) , then you wait a little bit for Air Mass Flow to increase ( i.e. move right ) . If you increase the Pressure Ratio too much , without the accompanying mass flow ( which take a while because of inertia ) you will enter the surge line . A similar thing happens on spool down , albeit a gentler one . Compare this with the piston engine where you put more air/gas mixture into the cylinder , it makes for a bigger bang , accelerates the piston faster , and the very next piston cycle you can theoretically get max power .
The most important characteristic for a jet engine compressor is high mass flow rate with light weight and if possible small size . For the same size , the flow rate can be increased by operating the compressor at higher rpm . But sliding components do n't allow that . Only the axial and centrifugal compressors can achieve sufficient flow rates , so they are used . Centrifugal compressors achieve higher pressure ratio for weight , but are larger , so they were used in many early designs and now remain in small turboprops while larger engines use axial compressors for their compactness .
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
Some countries do n't get the most powerful engines and have to use what is available in the market . To avoid upsetting China too much , the US would not sell the <URL> or the <URL> to Taiwan , and a derivative of a <URL> had to be developed . A second reason is redundancy : When the US Navy had to decide between the <URL> and what <URL> , they preferred the design with two engines , because losing your only engine over water is a much more life-threatening experience than losing it over land . Similarly , the Eurofighter was designed more for peace than for war - having two engines will reduce training losses . Generally , a single , bigger engine will be more powerful and more efficient per unit of mass , because manufacturing tolerances will be relatively smaller in the bigger engine , if the same technology is used for both . Single engines need to have more system redundancy than one of a pair of engines , so some of that advantage can not be transferred into the finished design . Nevertheless , from a performance standpoint the single engine fighter will look better .
For the purposes of air pressure inside aircraft , they are broken down into two broad categories : Unpressurized - These aircraft are typically piston powered and ca n't go very high , so do not even attempt to regulate the air pressure inside the fuselage . Pressurized - These aircraft do maintain pressurization in the fuselage , but it is n't constant beyond a certain point . The category determines the answer to your question : Unpressurized Aircraft Unpressurized aircraft are not built air-tight for a couple of reasons : It is very hard to make something as large as an airplane truly air-tight , and keep it that way . Over time , seals will start to leak , fittings will loosen , etc. . The fuselage would have to be much stronger to withstand the pressure difference between the inside and the outside . This would make them heavier and more expensive . There is n't much need . These airplanes do n't fly high enough to really require a pressurized fuselage and a person can breathe more or less normally even though you are n't at sea level . ( Think of people that live on mountains . ) Pressurized Aircraft Without going into the details of how an aircraft is pressurized ( which is n't really relevant to your question ) , the air pressure inside the fuselage of a pressurized aircraft is usually maintained at sea level pressure up to a certain point . However , the fuselage is designed to withstand a particular maximum differential air pressure , so in order to protect it ( basically keep it from " popping " when the air pressure outside the airplane drops too low ) , the pressure is allowed to decrease when needed . In typical jet airplanes , the pressure inside portions of the airplane ( typically the passenger compartment , some of the cargo holds , and maybe an avionics bay ) at cruising altitude is maintained at a pressure which corresponds to an outside air pressure at an altitude of about 5,000 - 8,000 feet ( referred to as " <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> " ) , depending on the cruising altitude and the design of the airplane .
Really depends on what you are flying , what 's growing , what season and what the roads are like . Our Cessnas have used gravel roads a couple of times , either due to problems aloft or at the airport ( bad weather ) . In the Alberta prairies finding a side road to land on is no problem whatsoever . 100 and 200-series Cessnas have fairly narrow fixed gear that can take an amazing amount of abuse , do n't know about other types . A real cornfield , with the corn fully grown , will destroy a light aircraft . The plants are 2-3m high with a hard , heavy log of corn at the top . Hit a couple of thousand of them at 100km/h ... ( Skydiving centers in corn country have firm advice for landing in the corn : keep your legs crossed . ) Ripe canola is also nearly 2m high and is a bushy plant interwoven with it 's neighbors . You 'll probably flip over forward . Wheat is the best choice .
The oblique wing and the swing wing aim to reduce the drag over a wide range of speeds by changing the wing sweep . While the swing wing rotates a part of the wing to achieve this , the oblique wing rotates the whole wing . The first production aircraft with variable sweep wings was the <URL> , while the most famous one is the <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " by U.S. Navy - U.S. Navy National Museum of Naval Aviation photo No. 2011.003.301.027 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . However , the only full sized aircraft to be produced with an oblique or pivot wing was the <URL> , which was strictly an experimental aircraft . <URL> " <URL> " by NASA - <URL> . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . A comparison between the two can be made like this : Aerodynamics : The oblique wing is much more refined aerodynamically compared to the swing wing and had lesser drag . In fact the AD-1 was designed to be as close to the optimal for all the flight regimes . Also , the aircraft was designed to have an elliptical lift distribution to reduce induced drag . on the other hand , the variable geometry aircraft did not offer any significant advantages over fixed wing baseline aircraft . However , the asymmetric stall of the oblique wing aircraft would cause problems as one side of the wing is swept forwards and the other side is swept towards the rear . Structure : The hinge was arguably the most critical structural part in variable sweep wing aircraft . The hinge should not only have a very high reliability , but also have the capacity to bear the high aerodynamic loads . <URL> " <URL> " by Sovxx - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . In this case , the swing wing aircraft are better off compared to the oblique wing aircraft as the amount of load on the hinge is significantly lower . For example , the oblique wing hinge has to take not only the weight of the entire aircraft wing ( the swing wing aircraft typically rotate only a part of the wing ) , but also the entire fuel load ( the amount of fuel carried in the variable part of the wing is significantly small ) . Also , the hinge should take the load of the control system too . Handling and Controls : The handling of the swing wing aircraft have been brought closer to the fixed wing aircraft over time . However , the handling qualities of AD-1 was found to be poor , with unusual trim requirements and inertial coupling affecting the <URL> . For instance , the AD-1 required about 10 ° of bank in order to trim the aircraft with no sideslip at 60 ° wing sweep.The aircraft also experienced pitch-roll coupling and the associated aeroelastic effects made for unpleasant handling qualities above 45 degrees sweep . One advantage of the oblique wing aircraft is that the center of lift and mass does n't move as the wings are swept . This happens in the swing wing aircraft and the control system is complicated Engine and payload In case of swing wing aircraft , the engines can be mounted in the fuselage ( like F-14 ) or in the ( fixed part of ) wing itself ( like B-1 ) . In case of the oblique wing aircraft , locating the engines anywhere except the fuselage is effectively ruled out . In case of military aircraft , use of hardpoints in the variable point of the wing is limited ( for one thing , this will increase the load on the hinge ) . This is a much more serious problem for oblique wing aircraft as this limits the payload that could be carried . However , the main reason for the lack of further development of oblique wing aircraft is their unusual and unpleasant control qualities .
It was probably Engine Oil . On modern jet engines , oil is a consumable in the sense that it gets burned up and needs topping up . A new engine will require less , a high time engine more . The JT-9s on older 747 were notorious oil-guzzlers . CF-6s were a bit better but they still needed topping up after an 8 hour flight . Jet engines never get an oil change . The regular topping-up of burnt oil keeps the oil fresh and regular filter changes ensures material from engine wear is not circulated . Oil samples are taken at set intervals and sent for spectrographic analysis . Too much of a particular element will focus attention on a particular component . There are also ' Magnetic Chip Detectors ' which trap ferrous metals and this also helps to pinpoint wear in the engine .
Maybe you mean the p-factor . If both engines are rotating clockwise , the plane yaws to the right . If one rotates clockwise , the other counter-clockwise , the effect cancelles out and the plane flys straight .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
As <URL> , what happened in that video is a <URL> . This is not really an engine fire , but a temporary backfire . To understand what is happening , look at this diagram of a turbine engine : The air is compressed in the front of the engine , fuel is injected and ignited , and then everything flows out the turbine section and the exhaust nozzle . The only thing supporting the compression at the front of the engine is the rotation of the compressor blades . There are many different things that could cause the compression to fail . In the event of a bird strike , these blades can be damaged . When that happens , there is highly compressed air in the combustion section , and there is no longer enough compression to prevent it from exiting the front of the engine . This causes the air to exit both the front and rear of the engine . The disruption in air flow happens too quickly for the engine control systems to react . This means the engine is still pumping enough fuel to run the engine at normal thrust , but there is no longer enough air flow to burn all that fuel in the combustion section . The result is that the fuel burns through the turbine and exhaust section of the engine , and behind the engine . Once this compressed air has exited the engine , it will generally recover . The engine is not on fire , so once the excess fuel burns away , the flames are no longer visible . However , if the problem is still present ( and damage from a bird strike would not go away ) , then the engine surges over and over until it is shut down or set to a lower , more stable power setting . So this is not so much a safety feature as physics taking over , and there is no real fire of immediate danger to the airplane . The engine system will automatically shut down the engine if it senses there is anything potentially very dangerous or that completely prevents the engine from running . While compressor surges can eventually damage the engine , it 's not really a catastrophic event , and it is up to the pilots to assess the situation and shut the engine down if necessary . Reducing power to idle may sometimes be sufficient to stop the surges . During a compressor surge , the flames are confined within the engine . There should be nothing to burn here besides fuel , so cutting off fuel will stop the fire . Actual engine fires are generally caused by flammable fluids leaking into hot areas around the engine , or the hot engine gases escaping from the air flow sections into surrounding systems . There are detection systems to alert the pilots of this situation , and the engine area is designed to contain a fire until the pilots can use the fire extinguishing systems to put such a fire out or at least get the plane back on the ground .
Not yet . To look at a medium-range aircraft , let 's base the engine on the <URL> or the <URL> . Those engines produce between 100 and 150 kN static thrust . In cruise , their thrust is <URL> due to the low density in cruise altitude and due to them moving at Mach 0.8 . Let 's use a value of 25 kN - this is enough so that two of them will comfortably push an <URL> class airframe through the thin air at altitude . The power to produce such an amount of thrust is force times speed . The speed when flying with Mach 0.8 in <URL> is 240 m/s , so the power produced by one engine is 6.0 MW . Now <URL> an electric motor has to be to produce 6 MW continuously . As you can see from the linked Wikipedia page , the results are all over the place . Big , industrial motors come in at less than 1 kW/kg , so our motor would weigh more than 6 tons . The smaller motors for electric airplanes are pushing 10 kW/kg , the power-to-weight ratio of the <URL> , but will lose some of that when scaled up to size . Remember , even at 98 % efficiency the motor will generate 120 kW of heat - this needs to be removed , and operating in thin air does n't make this easy . With current technology the motor could achieve maybe 2 to 3 kW/kg - this means the motor driving our hypothetical engine comes in at 2 to 3 tons . Add to this the fan and the fairing of the jet engine ( we will not need the high-pressure part and all the turbines ) , but double the fan weight because we need to compensate for the missing high-energy core flow . This will maybe weigh 50 % of the CFM56 / V2500 , so we need to add another 1.2 tons . The electric motor will be twice as heavy as the parts it replaces . There is still some work to do before it can gain an advantage over current jet engines , but it has some potential because it does not dump half of the energy supplied to it overboard in a hot , fast-moving , noisy gas stream . EDIT : Since so many people get excited about me omitting the energy density aspect of electric propulsion , even though the question did expressly desire to leave this out , here are two things to consider . Energy density is only half of the problem of electric storage . The <URL> of jet fuel is around 43 MJ/kg , while Lithium polymer batteries achieve not even one MJ/kg . But this comparison is linear thinking - realistically , the current will be produced either by a high-efficiency turbine-generator combination , or by fuel cells , burning hydrogen at twice the efficiency of a conventional jet engine . Since hydrogen packs 142 MJ per kilogram , at twice the efficiency the electric airliner would need only 162 kg of hydrogen for every ton of kerosene in a conventional jet . Yes , I know , even then its volume will still be a problem . If any form of batteries is used , the fact that empty batteries weigh as much as full ones is the final nail in the coffin of battery-powered flight . While your average long-range jet <URL> , the battery-powered jet would need to schlepp those heavy batteries all the way to the final destination . To be competitive , those hypothetical batteries would need to have twice the energy density of kerosene .
If you know the pressure coefficient of the flow , the rest is easy . The equation for the pressure coefficient $ c_p $ is : $ $ c_p = \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } = 1 - \ left ( \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } \ right ) ^ 2 $ $ $ q _ { \ infty } $ is the dynamic pressure and contains air density $ \ rho $ and the flight speed $ v _ { \ infty } $ : $ $ q _ { \ infty } = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v _ { \ infty } ^ 2 $ $ The equation for the local speed , relative to flight speed , is : $ $ \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } = \ sqrt { 1 - \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } } = \ sqrt { 1 - c_p } $ $ Now you need to know the pressure coefficient . At Mach 0.85 the local Mach number of the 747 wing , which has a wing sweep of 37.5 ° , is 0.674 . Since I do not have the airfoil of the 747-400 , I used one from the same family ( BACJ ) , found <URL> . If you are interested , many more can be found in Michael Selig 's <URL> . The plot is from a <URL> calculation of the 2D flow around BACJ at Mach 0.8 , so it needs to be taken with a grain of salt . Note that it shows a stagnation point , and , therefore , Mach = 0 at the leading edge . The leading edge of the 747 wing is swept by 45 ° , so it will only slow the orthogonal speed component to zero . Consequently , the 747 wing has a stagnation line where the lowest speed will still be Mach 0.6 . On the suction side , the airfoil reaches Mach = 1.2 quickly and even Mach 1.3 near the trailing edge . Modern , so called <URL> s can tolerate mildly supersonic speeds on their suction side , and the Boeing 747-400 makes use of them . However , since the wing sweep reduces Mach effects , the top speed will be Mach 1.2 or slightly lower , and the TSFOIL calculation shown here is not exactly correct for flight at Mach 0.85 , but gives a general idea what happens on the wing . To answer the many questions you posted directly : The shape of the airfoil is immensely important . Thicker airfoils need to displace more air , and higher flow speeds are created on both sides . Camber will increase the pressure ( and speed ) difference between both sides . Changing the angle of attack will add a roughly triangular difference , which is highest at the leading edge , to the difference between both sides . Lower side pressure is increased slightly , and upper side suction goes up by a lot at the nose . Good wing designs have a triangular lift distribution over wing span , with the highest lift at the root . Since the displacement effect of the fuselage is added to the flow effects , the highest speeds will be encountered at the wing root . Just look at the pretty pictures ...
In theory yes . The loss of the engines will mean you also lose the generators and hydraulic pumps , but Concorde was equipped with a RAT which drove it 's secondary and emergency hydraulic systems , so control would be possible . Having never flown Concorde , but familiar with the flight characteristics of supersonic , high performance aircraft , I would guess such a forced landing would be flown at a steep angle of descent and at higher speeds say around 220-230 kts with leveling out in a shallow descent and roundout at or very near the threshold , placing the aircraft down at Vref in 1000-1500 feet thereafter .
Multiple-engine configurations use multiple freewheeling units that couple the rotor with the engine and allow the first to revolve faster than the latter but not the other way around . If just one of the engines fails , the freewheeling unit for that particular engine will effectively disengage the engine from the rotor ( as the rotor is now revolving faster than the failing engine ) , allowing the other engine ( s ) to drive it . How a freewheeling unit functions on a mechanical level is described on page 6 of <URL> document .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
Like anything else a <URL> except the engine is bolted directly to it ( <URL> ) . In a car a rolling road is simply a way to couple the tires to the dyno without having to have any custom fittings . For what its worth cars lose a bit of horse power in the transmission/drive shaft/differential so shaft horse power and wheel horsepower are not always the same . However in a plane the prop is bolted more or less to the end of the crank ( with the exception of some planes with stepper gear boxes ) . In any case shaft horsepower on a plane engine is more or less whats available at the prop . Here is a lycoming engine on a dyno <URL> ( <URL> )
end question
start question
What are the advantages and disadvantages of an oblique wing over a swing wing ?
The oblique wing and the swing wing aim to reduce the drag over a wide range of speeds by changing the wing sweep . While the swing wing rotates a part of the wing to achieve this , the oblique wing rotates the whole wing . The first production aircraft with variable sweep wings was the <URL> , while the most famous one is the <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " by U.S. Navy - U.S. Navy National Museum of Naval Aviation photo No. 2011.003.301.027 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . However , the only full sized aircraft to be produced with an oblique or pivot wing was the <URL> , which was strictly an experimental aircraft . <URL> " <URL> " by NASA - <URL> . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . A comparison between the two can be made like this : Aerodynamics : The oblique wing is much more refined aerodynamically compared to the swing wing and had lesser drag . In fact the AD-1 was designed to be as close to the optimal for all the flight regimes . Also , the aircraft was designed to have an elliptical lift distribution to reduce induced drag . on the other hand , the variable geometry aircraft did not offer any significant advantages over fixed wing baseline aircraft . However , the asymmetric stall of the oblique wing aircraft would cause problems as one side of the wing is swept forwards and the other side is swept towards the rear . Structure : The hinge was arguably the most critical structural part in variable sweep wing aircraft . The hinge should not only have a very high reliability , but also have the capacity to bear the high aerodynamic loads . <URL> " <URL> " by Sovxx - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . In this case , the swing wing aircraft are better off compared to the oblique wing aircraft as the amount of load on the hinge is significantly lower . For example , the oblique wing hinge has to take not only the weight of the entire aircraft wing ( the swing wing aircraft typically rotate only a part of the wing ) , but also the entire fuel load ( the amount of fuel carried in the variable part of the wing is significantly small ) . Also , the hinge should take the load of the control system too . Handling and Controls : The handling of the swing wing aircraft have been brought closer to the fixed wing aircraft over time . However , the handling qualities of AD-1 was found to be poor , with unusual trim requirements and inertial coupling affecting the <URL> . For instance , the AD-1 required about 10 ° of bank in order to trim the aircraft with no sideslip at 60 ° wing sweep.The aircraft also experienced pitch-roll coupling and the associated aeroelastic effects made for unpleasant handling qualities above 45 degrees sweep . One advantage of the oblique wing aircraft is that the center of lift and mass does n't move as the wings are swept . This happens in the swing wing aircraft and the control system is complicated Engine and payload In case of swing wing aircraft , the engines can be mounted in the fuselage ( like F-14 ) or in the ( fixed part of ) wing itself ( like B-1 ) . In case of the oblique wing aircraft , locating the engines anywhere except the fuselage is effectively ruled out . In case of military aircraft , use of hardpoints in the variable point of the wing is limited ( for one thing , this will increase the load on the hinge ) . This is a much more serious problem for oblique wing aircraft as this limits the payload that could be carried . However , the main reason for the lack of further development of oblique wing aircraft is their unusual and unpleasant control qualities .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
Normally , an airfoil is optimized for best lift/drag ( L/D ) efficiency for a certain flight profile ( usually a compromise ) . Since most of the time for most aircraft inverted flight is not an issue , you get an airfoil that is optimized for upright flight , and this is best achieved with asymmetric geometries . However , depending on the <URL> any airfoil can ( and will ) generate " negative " lift , only much less efficiently so , than for the optimized regime , resulting in increased drag . The desired angle of attack for conventional aerodynamically controlled aircraft is maintained by the elevator . For symmetric airfoils commonly used for aerobatic planes , the performance for upright and inverted flight is quite similar . For 99 % of all other airfoils inverted flight will work up to a certain point , depending on the available power , CG , the maximum lift and rudder forces availabe before stall . As a result , for some aircraft , a stable inverted flight can not be maintained , while for others it could be ( but with varying penalty to performance , stall speed etc ) . The aerodynamical possiblity of inverted flight is of course limited by structural and other considerations .
The details of the strength required are likely to be complicated and proprietary . However , we can do a very rough estimate . Using the equation for estimating root bending moment <URL> , and the following numbers : Fuselage weight : 230,000 kg MTOW : 577,000 kg Engines : <URL> Fuel : 260,000 kg Wings : 60,000 kg Wingspan : 79.75 m Wing taper ratio : <URL> The equation gives a root bending moment of 17,300,000 Nm . Of course , this is just a static load . If you consider a 2.5 g pullup , this could be 43,300,000 Nm . But on the ground , the wings will bend under their own weight . Running the bending equation on the wing weight , and adding in the engines , gives 23,900,000 Nm in the other direction . As to how it can be trusted : a lot of math . Organizations like EASA expect way more accuracy than my above estimate , which requires analysis of the specific loading conditions that need to be met , both static and dynamic , and the specific design of the wing , structurally and aerodynamically , which is how aerospace engineers earn the big bucks . Of course the A380 is bigger than anything mass-produced before . But the in-depth analysis will take this into account . Airbus has some experience building large aircraft , so they have a pretty good idea of what works and what does n't . Detailed testing is also done , on everything from the nuts and bolts up to <URL> . All of this information is used to back up the design . Airbus is n't going to invest money in a large test without being reasonably sure it will work , and EASA is n't going to certify a design until it has been successfully tested . Modern analysis allows predicting pretty accurately where and at what load structure will fail . But even then , with something so large and complex , things happen . Important things like the wings are required to not fail even if they are damaged , and to have redundant load paths so that even if a part fails , the remaining structure will hold . Parts are inspected to look for damage before it becomes critical . <URL> . More analysis is done , and fixes are implemented . Usually this wo n't be an issue of " the wing ca n't handle the load " , but that " the wing wears out too quickly " . <URL> is harder to predict and design for . The FAA requirements are in <URL> . This includes : Unless otherwise specified , a factor of safety of 1.5 must be applied to the prescribed limit load which are considered external loads on the structure . So they must take the maximum load expected without permanent deformation ( limit load ) , and allow a 1.5 safety factor on top of that without failing ( ultimate load ) . In order to show that the structure is capable of meeting the requirements : Compliance with the strength and deformation requirements of this subpart must be shown for each critical loading condition . Structural analysis may be used only if the structure conforms to that for which experience has shown this method to be reliable . The Administrator may require ultimate load tests in cases where limit load tests may be inadequate . This means that all analysis has to be shown to be reliable . This must either be tested , or compared to the known performance of previous designs . The testing must also be sufficient to prove the requirements will be met .
Flow separation happens when the pressure gradient of the airflow along the flow path becomes too steep . In subsonic flow , the oncoming air is first decelerated ahead of the wing , then swiftly accelerated when it flows around the strongly curved nose section of a wing . This acceleration is the consequence of the wing 's curvature . See it this way : If the airflow would be along a straight line , it would move away from the surface , creating a local vacuum . In reality , the air settles at a compromise between the straight path and following the contour , creating decreasing pressure along a surface with increasing curvature and increasing pressure along surfaces with decreasing curvature . More precisely , it is always in an equilibrium between inertial , viscous and pressure forces.This suction not only bends the airflow into following the wing 's contour , but also accelerates the air ahead of it . The lower the pressure , the more the air speeds up , such that the total energy of air ( the sum of pressure and kinetic energy ) stays constant . Therefore , pressure and local speed change in sync.When the curvature decreases further downstream , the flow path becomes straighter and pressure rises again . However , the air particles close to the wing slow down because of friction . The layer of air where this slowing is noticeable is called boundary layer . In it , the deceleration effects due to pressure rise and due to friction add up , and at some point the air comes to a standstill relative to the wing . Where this happens , static air will collect and build up , causing flow separation . Thankfully , the exchange of air across a turbulent boundary layer kicks the slowest air particles downstream , so at moderate angles of attack the air still moves along until it reaches the trailing edge . Only when the suction peak around the nose becomes very high at high angle of attack , the consequent steep pressure rise along the remaining flow path overpowers the possibilities of the turbulent boundary layer , the air decelerates completely and the flow separates . This is a wholly subsonic affair . If the wing moves at high subsonic speed , the curvature-created suction accelerates the flow such that it reaches supersonic speed . Now something odd happens : Supersonic flow accelerates further when subsonic flow would decelerate . This is caused by the change in density which is dominant at supersonic speed . Incompressible ( = very slow ) flow has constant density , and all speed changes affect pressure . At Mach 1 , the pressure and density changes are of equal magnitude , and in supersonic flow the density changes dominate . Now we have a supersonic pocket of air on the upper surface of the wing where speed increases and density decreases downstream , and the surrounding subsonic air sees little change in density . This picture should give you some idea how it looks : The whole wing moves at Mach 0.68 . Compare the green color at some distance from the wing with the scale on the left side , which gives the Mach number for each color shade . At the airfoil nose , you see a blue area . This is where the air decelerates - it gets pushed together by the approaching wing . Now follow the colors along the upper side - they quickly turn green , yellow and red as the air is accelerated into the low pressure area ( remember , low pressure equals high speed , so the reddest area has the highest local flow speed and the lowest pressure ) . In subsonic flow , the suction peak would be somewhere between 20 % and 30 % of chord , and the colors would slowly change back to yellow and green if you move further downstream . Now we have local supersonic flow ( everything redder than light orange is supersonic here ) , and instead of slowly decelerating , the air is speeding up to a maximum Mach number of 1.23 at almost 60 % of chord length.This can not last , and at some point this supersonic pocket collapses . This happens instantly in a shock , and as you know , in a straight shock density increases suddenly and speed decreases such that the <URL> . In the picture above , boundary layer effects create a lambda shock , which has its name from the Greek letter which looks like the shock pattern here . Aft of the shock , you have subsonic flow again , and a much thicker boundary layer which moves very slowly ( blue shade ) . This is due to the energy conversion through the shock , which converts kinetic energy into heat . But the flow is still attached - even this shock did not cause separation . If this pressure rise is big enough , the boundary layer will come to an instantaneous standstill , and then the flow separates . This is the shock induced separation you asked about . Unfortunately , the picture above is the best I could find , and I have none with separated flow aft of the shock . But it helps to show that the center of pressure moves aft . This causes a strong nose-down moment . Also , with higher subsonic Mach numbers directional stability decreases . Now even more nasty things can happen : The location of the sho
Yes it can , albeit at the cost of some added weight . By using reinforced bulkheads , the bending loads can be transferred into the bulkheads which leaves the center section free of structure . That is how large engines and their intake ducts can be placed where normally the spar would go . A classical example is the Lockheed F-104 Starfighter . <URL> Lockheed F-104 Starfighter cut-away drawing ( picture <URL> ) . Using bracing like on the Mini-MAX reduces stresses in the carry-through , but does not remove the need for something to keep the wings apart . In other words , the compression member of the wing spar is still required to transverse the fuselage where the wings are attached . Also , at high angle of attack the wing produces substantial nose thrust which could fold the wings forward were it not for a second compression strut at the wing nose . <URL> Mini-MAX 1100 ( picture <URL> ) In case of the Cri-Cri , which is a low wing design , the pilot sits on top of the spar . Moving the wing up to a mid position would create a much heavier aircraft and would require a wider fuselage , too . <URL> Colomban Cri-Cri ( picture <URL> )
" The wing lift formula shows that lift of a wing is proportional to its area " . That 's absolutely true . However a wing generates both lift and drag . Drag is of two natures : <URL> and <URL> . The sum of all drag is the total drag : <URL> Source : <URL> Induced drag decreases with speed , and has its origin in wing tip vortices . Vortices actually increase the velocity of the downwash , and changes the effective angle of attack . Which in turn changes the direction of the aerodynamic force , creating a force opposing to the direction of flight : <URL> Induced drag , source : <URL> Induced drag being due to tip vortices , if we can make vortices less efficient , then we also reduce induced drag . The way to do that is to have long wings , so the the downwash from the vortices affects only a part of the wing : <URL> Tip vortices , source : <URL> Research demonstrated that the induced drag is dependent on the wing <URL> , not only on the wing span . This can be understood easily : The quantity of air in a tip vortex is larger when the chord is large . So the answer to your question is : Yes lift is proportional to the wing area , but the <URL> is proportional to the wing aspect ratio . That 's why longer wings are preferred , they minimize energy lost in fighting drag . " Why are most conventional wings shaped the same ( swept back rectangles ) ? " Longer wings are better for fuel efficiency , but we have other problems in the designer queue , and some can be solved by selecting the <URL> , e.g. : We want to prevent the stall to be abrupt ( at the expense of creating less lift though ) : <URL> We want to delay the creation of a local supersonic flow in <URL> used in commercial airliners . When flying at M 0.8 , airflow is accelerated to produce lift , some areas of the wing reach supersonic speed ( Mach > 1 ) . The associated shock wave creates an additional drag . By sweeping the wing we add a spanwise component to the airflow which decreases the chordwise velocity , so the shock wave appears only to a higher aircraft airspeed : <URL> On the other hand , the sweptback wing tends to stall at the tip first , which is not good at all , as when a stall appears we need ailerons to prevent it from worsening , and ailerons are located at the tips to increase their effectiveness . So swept wings are also twisted so that the tip angle of attack is smaller than the root one , forcing the stall to start at wing root . Wings planforms are multiple , each type of wing , or sometimes subcomponent , can improve a particular issue ( possibly creating another that will be less important for the designer ) . See this very interesting article on Wikipedia : <URL>
Molding of the intricate shape requires expensive carbon fiber For it to dampen the noise it 's best with 5 + blades ( see 3 . ) Which is hard to balance and too much weight for your run-of-the-mill 4-seater single engine plane By the time the benefits were realized , enter the jet engine for the big planes that would have benefited from it . You only see it in few turboprops nowadays . Edit : For more on the correlation between no . of blades and noise : it was mainly discovered from tests . Here 's a long <URL> with tons of info , and a snippet from it follows ( T denotes Test , summary : more blades , less noise ) : <URL>
The issue has been fixed , for both the old and new A380 's . Before the fix , the first 120 A380 's did not face any danger according to Airbus . From <URL> : " The aircraft is absolutely safe because there are so many ways for the loads to travel within the structure of the wing , " [ Airbus 's head of engineering , Charles Champion ] said . " As it really is not a safety issue , we will inspect them over time ... within the next four years -- some of them before . " From <URL> : High-strength aluminum ( type 7449 ) reinforced with carbon fiber was used in the wing brackets of the first 120 A380s to reduce weight , but cracks have been discovered and new sets of the more critical brackets will be made of standard aluminum 7010 , increasing weight by 90 kg ( 198 lb ) . From <URL> : Airbus has developed two fixes it says will permanently deal with the cracking of some rib-feet , which has already resulted in an airworthiness directive requiring enhanced inspection intervals and fixes where component cracking is found . One solution addresses the retrofit fix while the other alters the production process so the problem never occurs . The fixes should restore the aircraft to 19,000 flight cycles and regular inspection intervals , says [ Tom Williams , Airbus 's executive VP-programs ] . From <URL> : [ 21 March , 2014 ] LHT and Ameco to complete A380 wing-rib fixes next year . Related : <URL>
Helicopters use more fuel than airplanes ( considering everything else being equal ) . When helicopters are traveling slow , they need more energy to hold their weight . When traveling fast ( according to their standards ) , the rotor drag is very high . This is the primary reason they need more power . More Power = More Fuel . Conventional aircraft have much less drag at a given weight and speed than a helicopter . Helicopters travel slow . When they burn more fuel per hour and travel slowly , fuel consumption per mile is much worse . They also stay low . Most have turbine engines , turbines burn lots of fuel at low altitudes . Wikipedia has a good article about <URL> . Two-seater and four-seater flying at 250 km/h with old generation engines can burn 25 to 40 liters per flight hour , 3 to 5 liters per 100 passenger km . The Sikorsky S-76C + + twin turbine helicopter gets about 1.65 mpg-US ( 143 L/100 km ; 1.98 mpg-imp ) at 140 knots ( 260 km/h ; 160 mph ) and carries 12 for about 19.8 passenger-miles per gallon ( 11.9 litres per 100 passenger km ) .
Most important factor affecting drag is frontal area . Almost all frontal area of the engine pod is the intake and it has to have the size it does to collect the air the engine needs . So there is not so much drag to be saved . Beside that , embedding the engine in wing roots like <URL> did has many disadvantages , most of which also apply to the central engine of three-engined jets ( B727 , DC-10 ) : The wing root carries the weight of the aircraft , so weakening it by embedding the engine is design and construction complication . Access for maintenance is difficult . Engines need a lot of maintenance and sometimes need to be replaced . Uncontained failure is more dangerous ( see <URL> ) . There is not much structure to damp vibration , so it is awfully noisy . And last but not least , modern high-bypass turbofans are huge . They would not fit in the wing anyway . And reasons for not attaching the engines directly to the fuselage or wing are already mentined in <URL> . Mainly , the inlet needs : Free space around it from which it can draw air at slow speed . Free space around it to which it can spill the excess air at high speed . And the engines mounted forward of wing actually improve the distribution of cross-sectional area according to the <URL> .
Aspect ratio $ AR$ can be written as $ \ frac { b } { c } $ which is equal to $ \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ . Before we start substituting , note that $ C_L $ also depends on the wing surface area $ S$ . $ L = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 C_L S$ or $ C_L = \ frac { L } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S } $ Substituting all this in the induced drag formula yields : $ D_i = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ frac { C_L ^ 2 } { \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 \ pi b ^ 2 \ epsilon } $ This shows that the induced drag is proportional to the inverse of the square of the wingspan .
First you need a wing that is representative of a flightworthy article . Next , you need to collect the significant load cases . The most obvious one is that of maximum lift , but sometimes wings have failed even when they were strong enough to support the maximum bending moment . Torsion from aileron deflections and flutter are important , as is the in-plane bending moment from lift at high angle of attack . Normally , the wing is <URL> and computer-controlled hydraulic jacks are used to pull on it , but this can be made much simpler . Below you see the ultimate strength test on the <URL> wing : Discarded soda bottles were collected , filled with a pre-calculated amount of water and hung from the main spar while the center of the inverted wing was lifted up by a forklift . <URL> Load test on Dedalus wing . Yes , the guy with the Dedalus shirt is <URL> . Own work . Besides the maximum strength tests , fatigue tests are of equal importance . Here a statistical load distribution ( frequent low loads , infrequent high loads ) is applied to the wing over thousands of hours . These tests stretch into the early operational phase of a design , such that the structure is cleared for more hours as the test progresses .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
This is quite difficult to answer as some modern supersonic fighters do n't have just ailerons , but ' elevons ' , flaperons , tailerons and most of the time combine the movement of several control surfaces by computer to generate a desired effect . Large civilian aircraft tend to have more than one pair . A relatively smaller set closer to the wing tips for slower speeds and a general large aileron closer to the wing root . I would suggest you get a top-view of these aircraft . When you find our the length of the aircraft or wingspan you could derive it yourself through approximation .
They are designed to not stall at the tips first . Such a stall behavior would be highly problematic because it causes a pitch-up moment which exacerbates the stall . See the <URL> how nasty stalls with swept wings can become . <URL> describes the required stall characteristics : ( a ) It must be possible to produce and to correct roll and yaw by unreversed use of the aileron and rudder controls , up to the time the airplane is stalled . No abnormal nose-up pitching may occur . The longitudinal control force must be positive up to and throughout the stall . In addition , it must be possible to promptly prevent stalling and to recover from a stall by normal use of the controls . Such a behavior is easiest to achieve when separation does not start at the wing tip . <URL> sometimes had trouble to achieve docile stall characteristics which led to the introduction of stick shakers . Today , changing the airfoil shape over span ( aerodynamic washout ) and wing twist ( geometric washout ) are combined to ensure that stall starts at the wing root . Regarding washout : With high-lift devices employed , the <URL> of the ailerons on the outer wing results in a strong effective washout . Here it is important to extend the slats over the outer wing to enable it to function well above the local angle of attack . The picture of an A300-600 below should illustrate the point . <URL> A300-600 in landing configuration ( picture <URL> ) But even in clean configuration some washout remains and allows the outer wing to fly at a lower lift coefficient which ensures a decent stall margin . A photo of an airliner wing on the ground might be misleading : The lift forces in flight will twist the swept-back wing such that washout is increased .
Could you create an aircraft using an jet engine/propeller/ducted fan on a gimbal ? Sure you ' could ' ; it is feasible by the laws of physics . But just because you can does not mean that you should . Setting up multiple points of lift on a manned aircraft seems like a good idea with a lot of advantages but is a Pandora 's Box of problems , the not the least of which is the grave risks of single point failure . Lift and control is totally reliant on balanced lift between multiple engines . Lose one engine and the craft departs from controlled flight and crashes . You better hope you have an ejection seat and/or parachute on board . Some solutions to these problems come in the form tiltrotor designs like the Agusta Westland 609 and the V-22 . But these aircraft have multiple redundancies in their design including a common transmission system between the rotors ; in case of a single engine failure , the good engine has enough power to drive both rotors . Tiltrotors can also glide like regular airplanes and utilize control surfaces during this and cruise flight . As a final note : Be careful in putting too much faith in Musk and other Silicon Valley whiz kids speculating about other design endeavors . The skills required to run a successful software company are often very different from that required to develop other artifacts like aircraft and automobiles , etc. . Musk was a genius with PayPal but nearly went bankrupt starting an electric car company and his development work with SpaceX has been punctuated with a series of spectacular failures . He also quietly withdrew from his proposed ' Hyperloop ' project , I suspect , because he really did n't understand what he was getting into there .
Actually , a similar concept was tested by the USAF in the 50s ( like most things in aviation , it seems ) . Under the name of Project Tom Tom , the military was looking into the possibility of coupling a parasite fighter ( an F-84 in this instance ) to a B-36 as a long-distance escort as it flew into the Soviet Union by joining the two aircraft together at the wingtips . Flying as such , the F-84 would actually power down its engines during coupled flight and could receive fuel from the B-36 . However , the aspect with greater relevance to the question is that the B-36 would actually derive an aerodynamic benefit from this arrangment as well . In theory , the combined aircraft would also benefit from having an artificially elongated wing as well , and , while I remember reading last year that this actually did result in superior fuel efficiency for the combined aircraft during cruise , I am at a loss to find that source right now . At any rate , with respect to this question , the B-36 effectively docked with a pair of " wing extensions " ( in this case , a pair of F-84s ) while in flight and derived a benefit in cruise . A video of the concept can be found here : . Also , more reading can be found in this text Flying Aircraft Carriers of the USAF : Wing Tip Coupling by Brian Lockett . Naturally , there were significant downsides to this idea . While the F-84 actually did manage to engage the coupling mechanism on the B-36 on test flights , logging at least a couple hours of continuous , coupled flight , significant stability and safety issues were uncovered during testing that led to the scrapping of the project . As noted in a quote from <URL> : The wing-tip coupling mechanism as developed and flight tested in the Tom-Tom program is not considered satisfactory for tactical use and was barely acceptable for test flying . It appeared that a new difficulty and a now shortcoming were uncovered on virtually every test flight . The extent of rework necessary before the coupling mechanisms as designed were acceptable as flight test articles is covered under the DESIGN section of this report . Similarly , issues with aeroelasticity turned out to be a much larger issue than originally expected ( in part because of the change pitching/heaving forces as well as wing mass distribution and stiffness at the joint ) . I think that Aurora Flight Sciences ran into similar issues when they were <URL> ... the idea was to join multiple vehicles ( that were essentially flying wings ) to create a super-efficient , high-altitude , solar-powered , surveillance aircraft . Due to conflicting requirements on wing structure and aircraft weight , I think that ultimately did n't fly ... but I do n't have any of the details for that . Just what I remember from a presentation I saw many years ago . At any rate , I guess that my answer is : yes , it could . But it is VERY difficult and dangerous to do ( at present ) .
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
A Pelican tail is a V-tail with the two tail surfaces set apart . Compare this to a straight V-tail as that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the F-117 ( picture <URL> ) The closest to a Pelican tail which has actually been flown is maybe that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the YF-23 ( picture <URL> ) Clearly , the distance between the two surfaces is dictated by the engines , but Northrop could have placed them on top of the nacelles . However , doing so would had been a poor choice for several reasons . A Pelican tail has those advantages : If the vertical part is too close to the wing strake or fuselage chines , the strake vortex could hit the tail surfaces and cause oscillatory loads . <URL> so they would not break off . A Pelican tail should easily avoid this . A pure V-tail has <URL> , because the pitch-induced angle of attack change is reduced and the reaction force , too , by the V angle . Placing a horizontal strip in the middle improves pitch damping . Wikipedia has conflicting information on weight savings , but generally V - and Pelican tails should be more efficient than a conventional tail . However , for the best maneuverability a conventional tail is preferable . Again , placing a horizontal part between the two V surfaces improves pitch maneuverability , even when the control surfaces are only on the V part . Their symmetric deflection will induce a considerable lift change on the horizontal part . Placing the vertical tail outside and aft of the engine exhaust will shield the lateral IR radiation better . The drawbacks are : Higher structural complexity compared to a true V-tail . Lower maneuverability and yaw damping than a conventional tail . EDIT : I knew I had seen a Pelican tail before , but could not remember where . Now I found it : <URL> This ist the German <URL> helicopter ( picture <URL> ) , and yes , this is a Pelican tail ; however without control surfaces . It had two intermeshing rotors which made a tail rotor unnecessary . Anton Flettner had built the similar <URL> in 1940 and introduced the 282 in 1942 .
end question
start question
Did AirFone ever make money ?
Not according to the authors of <URL> <URL> Despite impressive technological achievements and great expectations all around , the service 's business performance ultimately proved an abject failure . In the ten years before Verizon finally pulled the plug , Airfone generated only 50 million total calls , a fraction of the calls carried daily by cellular companies . While the Airfone service was heavily used when bad weather caused significant delays , the system 's utilization at other times was extremely low . A typical plane was equipped with as many as 60 phones . From these , the average large jet generated fewer than 100 calls per day in about 16 hours of flying time . As a result , the expensive system , with its heavy load of fixed costs , remained idle well over 99 % of the time . ... While Airfone claimed that some customers ' monthly bills topped out at $ 4,000 , there were not nearly enough of them to sustain the service 's sky-high fixed costs . ... Within a few years of the service 's launch , airlines started to remove the expensive phone infrastructure from their cabins , since the Airfone cost them more in increased fuel consumption ( because of the system 's weight ) than it generated revenues through their revenue sharing arrangement with Verizon . My emphasis .
Using e.g. <URL> , one can essentially show that with each new aircraft generation , the accident rate reduces . This answers your question about statistic involvement , but does n't really confirm a causal relationship , since it 's not only automation but e.g. also human machine interface ( flight deck ) design and system architecture that improves . However , I would assume there are quite probably at least some safety improvements due to automation in there . One would need to go about analysing the accident factors to prove this . As an interesting aside touching on this topic , a former colleague of mine flying commercial jets recently offered his first-hand view on different aircraft automation levels in <URL> . While not a comprehensive answer as such , I hope the links allow you to pursue this a bit further .
Not according to the authors of <URL> <URL> Despite impressive technological achievements and great expectations all around , the service 's business performance ultimately proved an abject failure . In the ten years before Verizon finally pulled the plug , Airfone generated only 50 million total calls , a fraction of the calls carried daily by cellular companies . While the Airfone service was heavily used when bad weather caused significant delays , the system 's utilization at other times was extremely low . A typical plane was equipped with as many as 60 phones . From these , the average large jet generated fewer than 100 calls per day in about 16 hours of flying time . As a result , the expensive system , with its heavy load of fixed costs , remained idle well over 99 % of the time . ... While Airfone claimed that some customers ' monthly bills topped out at $ 4,000 , there were not nearly enough of them to sustain the service 's sky-high fixed costs . ... Within a few years of the service 's launch , airlines started to remove the expensive phone infrastructure from their cabins , since the Airfone cost them more in increased fuel consumption ( because of the system 's weight ) than it generated revenues through their revenue sharing arrangement with Verizon . My emphasis .
It did n't directly lead to the tail separating . What separated was n't just the de-ice boot , it was the whole leading edge on the left stabilizer . That caused a stall of the left horizontal stabilizer and an increase in drag on the left side . The wings of an aircraft have a tendency to pitch the aircraft down ( as they 're behind the center of gravity and provide a force upwards ) , while the stabilizer produces a force downwards to keep the plane 's pitch stable . With the loss of lift on the left stabilizer , there was less downforce ( leading to a pitch down ) , more downforce on the right than on the left ( leading to a right roll ) , and more drag on the left than the right ( leading to left yaw ) . These rather violent motions led to massive aerodynamic loads on the plane , resulting in the next failure : the left wing . When this failed , the plane violently rolled right , for reasons I 'm not quite sure of ( I get violently rolling , but am unsure why it was to the right ) . This roll stressed the plane even more , and that is when the tail ripped off the plane . The direct cause was extreme aerodynamic forces caused by the flight path , not the leading edge separation itself .
Good thought , and it does happen . Tilt the jet exhaust or propeller downwards at a shallow angle $ \ phi $ , and there is lift created at sin $ \ phi $ while thrust is reduced by cos $ \ phi $ . If we take small angles , let 's say 3 degrees : $ \ Delta L$ = T $ \ cdot $ sin ( 3 ° ) = 0.052 T $ \ Delta T$ = T $ \ cdot $ cos ( 3 ° ) = 0.9986 T So 5.2 % of engine thrust is converted into lift , for a loss of 0.14 % of horizontal thrust . Free lift ! Slight angles like this are found in aircraft installations , for instance in tail mounted jet engines which are angled horizontally to reduce yawing angle with a failed engine . With engines mounted underneath the wing , the downwards pointed thrust would help a tiny bit in lift and reduce the take-off length . As @mins points out , with tail mounted engines the nose down pitching moment may counteract the lift benefits . <URL>
Do the four engines make the BAe efficient ? No ! Does it affect performance ? Yes it does . The BAe 146 occupied a niche for Hot &amp; High airfields , in that it can continue the takeoff when an engine fails : one failed engine out of four leaves 75 % of full thrust . So take-off performance with a failed engine is better on a 4-engine aeroplane . The engines themselves were quite clever designs : the <URL> with a relatively high bypass ratio and a geared fan . The bypass ratio of 5.7:1 is higher than the 5.0:1 of the Trent 700 used for the A330 . By comparison , the Fokker 100 used the Rolls Royce Tay , with a bypass ratio of 3.0:1 and the proven core of the RR Spey . <URL> Photo from the wiki . But was the BAe 146 efficient because of the four engines ? For an aircraft of a given weight and a given thrust requirement , the design considerations for number of engines would be : Four engines are each smaller than two engines . Turbine engines do not scale down well . All else being equal , purchase price starts to be the limiting factor when reducing the size : half thrust engines are not half the price . 4-engined planes have worse fuel economy than an identical sized twin engine , due to decreased efficiency of a smaller turbine , and increased drag from more engine pods and a larger vertical tail area . In cruise , a typical single aisle airliner uses a third of the take-off and climb thrust . So once in cruise , one out of two engines can provide all the thrust required to continue the flight , and have less yawing moment than a failed outboard engine of four . Picture and quote from <URL> <URL> Specifically , current subsonic airliners require about three to five times more thrust to take off than they do to cruise , and the power produced by a high bypass ratio turbofan engine at constant throttle setting varies in much the same way . Twin engine turbofans actually have a third engine on board : the APU . It can power the systems with full redundancy after an engine fail , and is normally shut off in flight , like the <URL> when loitering . Note that the propeller blades of the P-3 can be made to feather , providing much less asymmetrical drag than a windmilling turbofan . So the advantages of four engines are mainly the consequences of an engine fail in the TO/climb phase : a four engined aircraft could opt to continue the flight , while the twin engine would have no more redundancy and a much harder time climbing to altitude . But all else being equal , four engines have twice the chance of failure than two engines ... The BAe 146 had a relatively wide and stubby fuselage , designed for 6-abreast seating but often configured for 5-abreast due to awkward headroom for the window passengers . This added to the drag penalty of the type over that of a comparable size aircraft like the Fokker 100 , which is still a sought after aircraft for feeder airlines in Australia , the limiting and most expensive cost being engine overhaul . The BAe 146 has twice this cost ...
It is called " standard pressure " because 29.92 In-Hg ( or 1013.25 hPa ) is the standard atmospheric pressure at sea level according to both the <URL> ( International Standard Atmosphere ) and the <URL> . Below 18,000 ft , local altimeter settings are used because you need to know how high you are above terrain , or whether or not you 're at the proper altitude for an instrument approach , or at pattern altitude , etc. . In cruising flight above 18,000 ft , except for a few places in the world , you are well above any terrain , so errors in actual altitude of even a couple thousand feet is unlikely to cause a problem . In this case , having all airplanes use a common altimeter setting is useful because it 1 . does n't require you to change it frequently as you pass through changes in pressure , and 2 . it helps ATC ensure separation without having to inform flights every 10 minutes of a new setting . It makes sense to use standard pressure in this case because it represents a good baseline average , and you may have noticed that reported altimeter settings tend to average around 29.92 anyway . That being said , there are instances where you may still need to know the en-route altimeter settings for flight planning purposes . Suppose the minimum safe altitude along your route is 19,000 ft MSL and current pressure is 29.42 . If you decided to cruise at FL190 , you would actually be flying at about 18,500 ft MSL , and would be below your minimum safe altitude . Colder than standard temperature can have similar effect as low pressure , and will result in the airplane being lower than the indicated altitude .
Note that the article says that No aircraft capable of being flown without a pilot At that point of time there were a number of radio controlled aircraft which could be flown without a pilot on board ( for example , the <URL> and <URL> , of which thousands were made ) . The authors of convention most probably had these in mind when they frame the article 8 . This <URL> also points in the same direction : 4.3 Article 8 details conditions for operating a " pilotless " aircraft over the territory of a contracting State . To understand he implications of this Article and its inclusion from the Paris convention of 1919 ( Article 15 ) into the Chicago Convention of 1944 , the intent of the drafters must be considered . Remote-control and uncontrolled aircraft were in existence at the time , operated by both civil and military entities . " [ A ] ircraft flown without a pilot " therefore refers to the situation where there is no pilot on board the aircraft . As a consequence , any RPA is a " pilotless " aircraft , consistent with the intent of the drafters of Article 8 . ( emphasis mine ) . So , the authors of the 1944 Chicago convention most probably had radio controlled aircraft in mind .
Yes , it can happen , but it 's pretty uncommon . Airliners arrive at the destination airport having been sequenced by ARTCC ( " Center " ) and Approach so that they are showing up in an orderly sequence , spaced out so that there is adequate room between them . They may be set up for an ILS , or they may see the field and accept a visual approach , but either way the flow is generally quite predictable and orderly . VFR traffic , by its nature , is less controlled and ordered , so it 's more likely in that sort of an operation that you 'd have two aircraft in positions to arrive at the runway at about the same time , so a solution like a 360 on downwind or on final becomes necessary . With a flow of airliners ( and other IFR traffic ) spaced out at 3-5 miles apart , that solution would create as much trouble as it would solve , because now the conflict is with the aircraft behind the one that circled , rather than with the one in front of it . What does happen more frequently , is the 360 happens much farther out from the airport , and that 's called " going into holding " due to traffic saturation . Maybe the airport is over-loaded with arrivals , or it had to suspend operations while the active runway was changed from 18 to 36 ( or whatever they are at a particular field ) , or there is weather affecting the approaches which slows down the rate at which it can accept arrivals . The Approach and Center controllers will work to keep the flow of traffic coming into the airport neat &amp; orderly , which means delaying aircraft before they get to Tower 's airspace ( i.e. the " traffic pattern " ) . Ideally , they will do this with speed adjustments to get the desired interval , but sometimes the delay needed is more than speed adjustments alone can accomplish . Then they 'll put the arrivals into holding for however long it takes until they can start sending them in again . That 's the more common airline version of a " 360 on final " ... doing 360 's with 10 mile legs on a really , really extended final -- 100 + miles out ! In the case of a go-around that turns downwind , rather than a 360 on final , the typical solution would be to extend turning final out until there is adequate space . Staying on downwind past a 5 or 10 mile base &amp; final is highly undesirable for a VFR pattern , but for airliners where everybody has an ILS and does n't really have to maintain sight of the runway , it 's no big deal . For big airports , extending the traffic pattern out to longer finals is highly preferred over having jets circling on final .
The first scheduled trans-atlantic air service was made possible with <URL> . The LZ-127 started flying the route in 1931 , mostly to <URL> , or Pernambuco in Brazil , but was disassembled in 1940 . The first airliner which was able to cover the distance ( back then it was Berlin - New York ) was the <URL> , which in 1938 needed almost 25 hours East-West and 20 hours on the return leg . With its slow cruise speed , wind made a lot of difference . Sadly , the US did not allow Lufthansa to start the scheduled service it had planned to open in 1939 . Lufthansa had opened regular air mail services in 1934 between Europe and South America using flying boats and a relay ship in the middle of the Atlantic . Air France added its transatlantic mail service flying from Africa to South America and back . The first heavier-than-air transatlantic passenger service opened between New York and Marseille in 1939 on <URL> operated by Pan Am . It crossed the Atlantic between Foynes , Ireland and Botwood , Newfoundland . A British service , also using flying boats , was in preparation but stopped by the beginning of WW II . In the 1950s , there were already several options for transatlantic air travel , but none of them non-stop from Chicago : Pan Am , TWA , Trans Canada Airlines ( TCA ) , BOAC ( successor of Imperial Airways ) , and Air France all operated large propeller aircraft which covered the distance with refueling steps , typically in Gander ( Newfoundland ) and Shannon ( Ireland ) . Typical aircraft were the <URL> and <URL> , and the <URL> , but also the French <URL> flying boat was used until 1955 . Of these airlines , only <URL> in 1957 , before the first international terminal opened there in the following year . Still , the prevailing eastward wind made the East-West crossing hard and required airlines to reduce payload , and only the advent of faster airliners like the <URL> ( from 1956 ) and the <URL> ( from 1957 ) made the transatlantic services more reliable and economical . Beginning with the DC-7C , their range was sufficient to support transatlantic service directly from Chicago O'Hare . In October 1958 the first transatlantic jet airliner service was opened by <URL> using the <URL> , followed shortly after by Pan Am , operating the <URL> and connecting London with New York ( with an occasional refueling stop at Gander on westbound flights ) . O'Hare could only participate in this progress after its main runway was extended to <URL> . Therefore , the most likely airplanes to fly transatlantic directly from O'Hare would have been the DC-7C ( but <URL> , not TWA ) , the <URL> and the L-1649 , which both were operated by TWA . For the flying time , the <URL> took 14 1/4 hours with the DC-7C and 14.83 hours with the Lockheed 1649 . So it is fair to assume a flying time of 15 1/2 to 16 hours for the slightly longer distance between Heathrow and O'Hare . Quote from <URL> : In January 1958 Pan American scheduled the DC-7C from Orly to Idlewild in 14 hr 15 min ; TWA scheduled the 1649 in 14 hr 50 min .
The article you linked in your question mentions one incident - loss of separation - that 's described in more detail <URL> . <URL> is a good source of information on incidents and accidents but it has very few reports related to holding . There are several about low-fuel incidents because aircraft had to remain in the hold for a long time ( <URL> is a well-known case ) , but I could only find <URL> that involved a holding pattern more directly and that was also a loss of separation resolved via a <URL> advisory . <URL> crashed while in a hold , but it was an ad hoc holding pattern and not in a stack with other aircraft . <URL> crashed due to icing accumulation while holding but again there were no other aircraft involved . I could only find one example of an actual collision in a holding pattern which was <URL> and in that case only one of the aircraft was holding ( inaccurately ) .
Jetstreams generally do n't stay perfectly straight . They tend to follow a meandering , curved path so it would be rare for a flight to stay in the max tailwind for very long . Dispatchers will often take advantage of jetstreams and plan the routing to follow part of the jetstream core . There is a website called <URL> where pilots can post photos of high groundspeeds for an " Unofficial " record . Here is an example from that website giving a groundspeed of 736 knots from a 240 knot jetstream tailwind . That is probably about the highest jetstream speed you will see : <URL> <URL>
Because it was something of a <URL> trademark since his early days . His first designs , the VariViggen and VariEze , had such a wing already , and apparently he saw no reason to optimize the wing of the Starship . <URL> Rutan VariEze in flight ( picture <URL> ) The only true innovation was a variable geometry canard , which he even <URL> . Being only 85 % scale , the performance of the Starship prototype was formidable , but once the real production aircraft had been designed with full compliance to airworthiness regulations , the Beech Starship turned out to be less impressive . The additional wetted surface produced more friction drag . Piaggio 's design is clearly superior . By the way , the idea behind the variable geometry canard was sound : In the landing configuration it would balance the additional lift from the fowler flaps on the wing . But the whole mechanism cost more in weight than the reduction in drag during cruise could save . <URL> Drawing from US Patent 4641800 .
The <URL> used two separate PT-6B to drive a single pusher propeller through a common gearbox . <URL> LeraFan 2100 in flight ( picture <URL> ) If you want to know why its official first flight date is December 32 , 1980 , read <URL> . <URL> LearFan 2100 engine arrangement ( picture <URL> ) This engine arrangement was the LearFan 's eventual undoing when the FAA denied it a proper certification because of concerns that the single gearbox constituted a single point of failure .
Remember what the purpose of the CAPS/BRS airframe parachute is : It 's a last-resort emergency measure to put the aircraft on the ground in a condition that is likely to be survivable for those onboard . Steerable parachutes add considerable complexity : Control lines would need to be routed into the cabin , and connected in such a way as to not interfere with the chute deployment under any circumstances . Assuming a suitable design could be devised to accomplish that a steerable parachute ( even for a single person ) requires quite a bit of training and skill to use . This is not something that can be adequately trained for in the case of the Cirrus airframe chute ( because pulling the chute on perfectly good aircraft to teach steering would be cost-prohibitive ) . Faced with the risks and complexity of a steerable chute or the relative simplicity and safety of a simple drag chute to decelerate the airframe prior to impact ( hoping you land in a suitable 40-by-40 foot square ) Cirrus and BRS opted for the latter . The result is a dead-simple " Pull the handle ! " system that 's proven very successful thus far .
The Mosquito was a great aircraft but it was not faster than Germany 's Messerschmitt ME-109 and Focke-Wulf Fw 190 piston powered fighter aircraft . It also did not successfully compete with the jet powered Messerschmitt Me 262 . The limited numbers of ME-262 were probably the only reason the Mosquito could survive in the same airspace . On 26 July 1944 the first aircraft to be shot down by a ME-262 was in fact a Mosquito : <URL> " a 262 A-1a , caught and severely damaged the Mosquito in a pursuit . The Mosquito , which managed to escape into cloud , later crashed at its destination airfield in Italy , and the airframe was written off "
A GPS needs a line of sight to ( at least ) 4 satellites in order to compute a position . Given that you were able to get a position during the cruise , I assume that you were close to a window and had a clear view of a part of the sky . During the cruise , the aircraft trajectory was close to a straight line ( or changing slowly ) , so your receiver was able to keep a line of sight to the same set of satellites . But during the approach , the trajectory was much more dynamic ( lots of turns ) , so your receiver did n't had a constant line of sight toward the same set of satellites and " lost " them . It takes time for a receiver to " lock " on the signal of a given satellite , so the receiver it could n't compute a position from other satellites because they were not in sight long enough .
Gravity/freefall backup ( or more precisely some backup ) is mandatory , but in large aircraft running pulley from cockpit to the wheel wells to release the uplock ( the thing that keeps the gear retracted ) mechanically would be too complicated or the force required to operate it too large , so the uplock still needs to be released electrically . Unfortunately the circuit breaker that protects the circuit responsible for releasing the uplock was " popped " ( open ) , so the uplocks did n't release and the gear did n't fall down . The crew was trying to troubleshoot the issue for 80 minutes and consulted maintenance over radio , but because the checklists for either central hydraulic system ( which does the normal gear extension ) failure or alternate gear extension did not mention the circuit breaker ( C829 ) neither crew nor maintenance thought of checking it . It is not possible to find why and when the breaker popped . They tested the alternate extension afterwards and it worked , but the breaker covers several other circuits and there could have been transient problem somewhere or it could have been maintenance error or some other reasons . You can read excerpt from the report on <URL> .
While many times an upgrade is not economical for older airplanes , sometimes the new features make it worth the cost . Two examples I found were <URL> , and <URL> . The second article also mentions American and Icelandair 757 and 767 upgrades . The Southwest and Delta upgrades involve over 100 aircraft in each case , which probably helped to make the upgrades more economical . In both cases , a major factor mentioned was the ability to perform required navigation performance ( <URL> ) procedures with GPS and other modern features . As the FAA works to implement the <URL> ATC system in the US , these upgrades will offer more benefits for the operators . Also , I 'd like to comment on the following statement : Concorde was not properly maintained as its analogue flight deck had never been upgraded . Proper maintenance and technology upgrades are not always the same thing . Aircraft with older systems can be maintained just as well as newer planes . We have airplanes that are 50 years old or older , like the DC-3 , which are still flying . While technology upgrades certainly have benefits , aircraft with analog cockpits are still operating just fine around the world . They may not be the most modern machines out there , but proper maintenance is what has kept them flying this long .
In this experiment to observe a deliberate airliner crash <URL> the crew exited in flight down the tail stairs ...
end question
start question
How do diffusers turn velocity into pressure ?
Warning N ° 1 : I 'll avoid energy conservation , but can not set aside mass conservation obviously . Warning N ° 2 : Both speed and pressure settle in a way that abides the laws of physics . It 's not like one settles first , then the second follows . Do n't let my wording fool you . Warning N ° 3 : I wo n't consider temperature in addition to speed , density and pressure . It 's too much for an explanation . There are many , many ways of seing this . The wrong but easy answer People who ' simply ' say : Velocity goes down and pressure goes up . Are , often , wrong . This only holds in perfect , incompressible , irrotational flows and is known as <URL> . If my ( French ! ) aerodynamics teacher heard anyone mention it , that person would probably lose points ! These conditions are often far from reality so the consequences do n't hold every time . However it can be used as a guideline to get a gut feeling about a low-Mach flow . ( Note in locally supersonic flows , the exact opposite might apply , so this warning is legit ! ) Energy The easiest answer is energy conservation . You mentioned you wanted another : I understand the energy conservation So I 'll pass . Forces Your nozzle is a convergent manifold , your diffuser is divergent . One acts exactly opposite to the other ( just reverse the time in steady flow ) so I 'll address convergent axisymmetric shallow nozzles . Shallowness means speed is quasi-axial everywhere . Furthermore , in aviation we are concerned with planes , so I 'll assume the intake velocity is constrained and can not go down . Let 's get to equilibrium first . Now try to cram a still fluid through a restricting pipe . It wo n't like it , and will resist ( inertia , plus the surface pressure of the nozzle 's axial component , etc. see ? Forces ! ) , thereby increasing its pressure . This pressure increase will propagate to the whole intake and raise that pressure . And now the intake has everything it needs to push the whole fluid forward : high intake pressure P0 constrained intake speed V0 So the fluid effectively moves through the pipe . How to describe the equilibrium First off , any radial section of fluid has quasi-uniform pressure , otherwise the fluid would pick up a large radial speed , so we would not be at equilibrium yet . Next , apply conservation of mass . It forces conservation flow throughout any section of fluid with . If frontal area is restricted , then either or both speed and density must increase . The amount by which each increases depend on the fluid 's properties ( compressibility etc ) . So here you go : speed must increase in the convergent nozzle . Also as a by-product , density may increase . How does that happen ? Simply , a force must push the fluid . Remember the intake has very high pressure necessary to maintain steady-flow ? Well that pressure is propelling the fluid ( and there must be a low pressure at the tighter end ( exit ) as well ) . If we do a static analysis of a thin section of fluid , it has low speed behind , high speed in front , so each molecule is accelerating . The section behind provides high pressure , that pressure translates into an axial force , the molecules accelerate . The section in front has lower pressure , and does n't push back as much . That pushing-forward-hard/not-pushing-back - as-much is the pressure differential . So along the flow , we should see the pressure decreases . There you go , I 've used : steady-flow assumption conservation of mass second law of Newton Look Ma , no energy ! P.S sorry if I sound like I talk to a 5 y.o. !
You have a few questions here . ... downwind pattern and I hear something like this : " 123X , tower , you are # 2 for runway 3 , following a Cessna on final . " In this case what you will do is continue your down wind leg while scanning for the Cessna traffic , some towers may ask you to " report traffic in sight " in which case you will say " traffic in sight " when you can see the Cessna . If he is on a long final you can begin turning your base ( assuming you are in a similar small plane of a similar speed ) when he is on your beam ( right off your wing tip ) . This should provide adequate spacing for you to come in properly . Keep in mind that the tower may also instruct you to do things to keep separation like " 123X Extend your down wind 1 mile " etc. . ... instructed to make " left pattern for runway 3 , " am I supposed to wait for the base leg turn until tower clears me for landing ? This depends on where you are coming in from . I have flown into towered airports on the runway heading and simply come into the pattern on final and was cleared to land about a mile from the runway . Other wise I typically report my midfield downwind to the tower " Piper 12345 Reporting Left Midfield Downwind for RW24 " then the tower will respond with my landing clearance or instructions to extend . While it is the towers responsibility to clear you for landing and what not , controllers are not perfect , you can continue on towards the runway in your pattern but if you have not been cleared you should go-around or ask for clearance . The other situation I have been in is a case where the controller deliberately does not clear you but has you come into the pattern and approach . This occurred while they were waiting for an IRF plan to come through for one of the regional jets waiting for departure . Since they did not know when it would come in I was instructed to continue my pattern and would be cleared on final if they did not need to get the jet out . However I was explicitly told I would be cleared on final so I knew what to listen for .
Your airspeed does not remain constant because of inertia : it takes more time for the airplane to adapt to the new relative wind , compared to the time it takes for the wind to change . Example One : you 're flying 80 knots and the headwind is 20 knots . Over a time of 3 minutes , the headwind gradually reduces from 20 knots to 10 knots . Since the change is gradual , you will notice the ground speed smoothly increases from 60 knots to 70 knots . Example Two : you 're flying 80 knots and the headwind is 20 knots . In 2 seconds , the wind drops from 20 knots to 10 knots . At the start ( t = 0 ) , you are moving 60 knots over the ground . However , 2 seconds later , the plane has not yet accelerated 10 knots faster ( maybe only 61.5 knots ) , but the wind is now 10 knots . Therefore you experience an airspeed drop in 2 seconds from 80 knots to 71.5 knots . Given sufficient altitude , the plane will eventually speed up to 70 knots ground speed ( airspeed 80 knots again ) . When you are landing , you may end up touching down short of the runway if corrective actions are not taken in a timely manner .
Generally speaking the Flight Management Computer supports holding patterns . The pilot inputs the holding fix ( usually a NDB/VOR ) , the direction of the hold ( Left/Right ) , the inbound course , and the time/distance that one holding leg shall take to execute . These information can be found on aeronautical charts , as IFR holding patterns are published for each airport . As far as I know pilots are also trained to fly holding patterns manually , but you can understand that flying the pattern manually is not as precise as flying the pattern via the autopilot .
Primarily steering is accomplished in two main ways : Steerable nosewheels - Usually limited to tricycle undercarriage , and usually controlled using the same left/right pedals as control the rudder in flight Using the rudder itself - Often associated with the traditional undercarriage ( tail draggers to some ) . In this case the rudder works on the ground in much the same way as it does in the air - ie , deflecting the rudder pushes the tail in the opposite direction , thus causing the nose to pivot in the required direction . In addition , steering can be augmented in two ways Differential braking - often the left and right main undercarriage have their own deferentially controlled brakes . These are usually controlled by " hats " on the top of each rudder pedal . By applying greater braking pressure to , for example , the left wheel will cause the aircraft to pivot more around that wheel causing a left-turning tendency . Differential thrust - in a similar vane to above , greater thrust applied to the left engine will cause a right turning tendency .
I get a variation of the glide ratio with $ \ frac { 2 } { \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } $ for circles flown with a bank angle of $ \ varphi $ when compared to straight flight at the respective best speed for optimum L/D . Your initial assumptions are right : Lift : $ L = c_L \ , \ rho \ , \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ , S \ , n_z $ Load factor : $ n_z = \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } $ with the bank angle $ \ varphi $ Drag : $ D = D_0 + D_i = \ Bigl ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ varepsilon } \ Bigr ) \ , \ rho \ , \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ , S$ ( zero-lift drag + induced drag ) , and both are equal at optimum $ L/D $ : $ $ \ Bigl ( \ frac { L } { D } \ Bigr ) _ { \ rm opt } = \ Bigl ( \ frac { c_L } { c_D } \ Bigr ) _ { \ rm opt } = \ frac { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ epsilon } { 2 \ , c_L } \ text { for straight flight at } 1 \ , g \ text { ( $ n_z = 1 $ ) } . $ $ Now with load factor $ n_z = n $ and unchanged speed : $ $ \ frac { L _ { ng } } { D _ { ng } } = \ frac { \ frac { c _ { L _ { 1g } } } { \ cos \ varphi } } { \ frac { c _ { L _ { 1g } } ^ 2 \ bigl ( 1 + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos ^ 2 \ varphi } \ bigr ) } { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ epsilon } } = \ frac { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ varepsilon } { c _ { L _ { 1g } } \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } . $ $ The ratio between both glide ratios is $ \ frac { 2 } { \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } $ , which makes sense because it will become 1 for $ \ varphi = 0 $ and become less than 1 for nonzero values of $ \ varphi $ . Note that the glide ratio at n g does n't carry an " opt " subscript anymore , because by increasing $ c_L $ we move away from the optimum . If the best L/D would be maintained for circling flight , speed would need to increase , not lift coefficient . The altitude loss in straight flight of a distance equal to the diameter of a circle with the radius $ R = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { g \ tan \ varphi } $ is $ 2 \ , \ pi \ , R \ , \ frac { D } { L } $ . When flown at the correct bank angle , this altitude loss per circle $ \ Delta h $ will become $ $ \ Delta h = \ frac { \ pi \ , v ^ 2 } { g \ tan \ varphi } \ Bigl ( \ frac { D } { L } \ Bigr ) _ { 1g } \ Bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ Bigr ) . $ $ Plot of the glide ratio with bank angle divided by the glide ratio for straight flight ( blue line ) . I also added the altitude loss for a full circle ( red line , Basis : $ L/D = 18 $ at 100 $ \ , $ m/s in straight flight ) , both for flight at constant speed and constant lift coefficient : Use the results from this plot with caution at higher bank angles : Lift would need to double at a bank angle of 60 ° , doubling $ c_L $ , so we fly much more slowly than any pilot would . The red line gives more realistic values , since here the aircraft speeds up for flying higher bank angles . Flying at constant speed gives less altitude loss simply because the circle becomes smaller than when flying at constant $ c_L $ . Note that for every meter flown the altitude lost is greater when flying at constant speed , indicated by the blue glide ratio degradation curve . Two factors conspire to increase aerodynamic losses when flying at constant speed with higher bank angles : You need to create more lift , which causes higher induced drag , and Your optimum $ L/D $ is at a higher speed when the bank angle increases , which again increases aerodynamic losses because you move away from the optimum . If you try to express the altitude loss per circle $ \ Delta h $ as a function of $ \ varphi $ , you will get a quadratic equation and two solutions , one high and one low bank angle : $ $ \ frac { \ cos ^ 2 \ varphi + 1 } { \ sin \ varphi } = \ frac { g \ , \ Delta h } { \ pi \ , v ^ 2 } \ Bigl ( \ frac { L } { D } \ Bigr ) _ { 1g } . $ $ Maybe MathSE can solve this algebraically ; I would resort to iteration or tabulation here .
According to <URL> , the GE90 has a mass flow rate of 1,350 kg/s at take-off and 576 kg/s at cruise ( at 10.668 km = FL350 ) . The CF6 has a mass flow rate of 591 kg/s at take-off . Exhaust velocity is n't generally quoted , perhaps because it only bears a loose relation to the performance characteristics of the engine . I suppose if you wanted you could find the area of the exhaust and use the density of air to find the velocity . Looking specifically at the GE90 , we see that it has take-off SFC ( specific fuel consumption ) of 7.9 mg/N-s . Using the formula $ I _ { sp } = 1 / ( g_o · \ text { SFC } ) $ given in <URL> we get a specific impulse of 12,285 s . If we use the cruise SFC of 15.6 mg/N-s , we get a specific impulse of 6,536 s. Is this an effect of the lower density of air , or simply of the lower fuel required in the cruise ? I do n't know .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
Basically everything that consumes power on an aircraft can potentially cause interference , short-circuits , or otherwise jeopardize the safety of flight and therefore must be switchable . Sometimes the switch is in the form a button , otherwise by a fuse . There are several particular reasons that the transponder can be turned off . If the transponder malfunctions , it may cause interruptions to all ATC surveillance in an area . There have been occurrences in the past that due to a fault the transponder it was basically acting as a radar jammer . In one particular incident it took a while before the aircraft that caused it was identified and after requesting the pilot to switch of the transponder , secondary surveillance was restored . Another reason is that when the aircraft is at the gate , the transponder is switched of to reduce the amount of radio transmissions . 100 aircraft on the surface of a large airport can produce a massive Radio Frequency noise , which negatively affect radar systems . When taxiing , radar replies are useful for aircraft identification , hence the transponder is switched on at push-back or engine start . For an example to see how such requirements are worded in aircraft certification regulations , see rbp 's answer . The focus here and in the media1 on the transponder in relation to hijacks is a red herring . If an aircraft is hijacked , there are way more important things to worry about than an active radar transponder . If hijackers turn off the transponder it means that they have access to the cockpit already . 1This answer was written shortly after flight <URL> went missing while en-route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing . Initial speculation focussed on a possible hijack scenario .
Besides the sealing the aircraft would also need a vacuum pump that is able to pull air out of the cabin which means extra weight . <URL> is through a air cycle machine that pushes air into the aircraft and outflow valves . There is no facility to pull air out of the craft . Any pressure drop you may experience on the ground is probably because the pilot increases air pressure on the ground slightly to test the seals and then releases it before takeoff .
Your question is about friction drag while the text is mainly about aspect ratio . You seem to explain the choice of aspect ratio to be based on friction drag . This is not correct . <URL> and <URL> are some good answers to explain the choice of aspect ratio . You will see that it has mostly to do with structural strength and wing volume to pack enough fuel . For supersonic aircraft the <URL> provides a highly swept leading edge , a stiff , light wing and good low-speed characteristics even with the thin airfoils which are helpful in supersonic flight . Generally , aspect ratio becomes less important the faster the aircraft flies , because it has more air flowing past per unit of time for creating lift . At supersonic speed some of the drag is proportional to the local inclination of the surface , so the designers try to make the aircraft <URL> . To put it bluntly , a subsonic aircraft likes to be as wide as possible to reduce <URL> , while a supersonic aircraft likes being longer to reduce <URL> . Friction drag will go up with the square of velocity if all other parameters are constant . Since a higher velocity increases the Reynolds number ( the ratio of inertial to viscous forces ) , in the real world the increase is slightly less than with the square of velocity . Since lift also goes up with velocity squared , the airplane can <URL> where the density is lower , which reduces both lift and drag . Now you need to consider the change in temperature over altitude : Air gets cooler when it expands , and cooler air causes higher viscous forces . By flying higher , the Reynolds number goes down again and the viscous drag goes up . In total , flying faster and higher will result in a <URL> at the same lift . If you <URL> you will find that lengthening the flow path will generally increase drag less than proportionally . Only when the boundary layer is laminar and lengthening the flow path adds a turbulent transition will you find that <URL> more than proportionally . <URL> , but mostly it comes sooner than the engineers like . Please follow the links and read the linked answers , only then is this answer complete .
I 'll limit my answer to single-engine seaplanes as I 've never flown a multi-engine seaplane . Typically there is no need to stay stationary in the water when doing a run-up . Just do it while taxiing to your takeoff path , or you can do it on your takeoff path . If the takeoff path is n't long enough to do the run-up and then continue along the path for the takeoff , you can turn around , taxi back along the takeoff path , and then takeoff . At typical run-up power settings , if you hold full up elevator , the airplane will simply mush along on the water since you wo n't have anywhere near enough power to get it up on the step . In other words , you wo n't be going very fast . When giving floatplane instruction , one of the first things I tried to impress on students was to not think in terms of the constraints of straight , hard-surface , defined runways , taxiways and the like . There 's no need , typically , to taxi in a straight line , make well-defined taxiing turns , and no need to takeoff in a straight line . Once away from the dock or beach , the airplane is going to weather vane unless you actively oppose that , and that weathervaning is going to have a component caused by the current , if any , of the water you 're on . In my experience , most of the time the takeoff path was either dictated directionally ( a river ) or pretty much wide open ( lake or reservoir ) . For new students in my area , reservoirs were preferred . More often than not , it was a matter of getting a short ways off the dock , do the checks other than the run-up while moving away from the shore at a 90 degree angle more or less , lift the water rudder , bring the stick all the way back , and do the run-up , all the while letting the aircraft weathervane into the wind . Then just takeoff . I never flew a twin-engined seaplane , but I see no reason why you could n't bring both engines up to the run-up rpm , do the checks on one and then the other . While checking the mags , carb heat , and props , there would be a little asymmetrical thrust , but not enough that the rudder could n't handle that .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
Inspired by this question , I would like to know what the pro 's and con 's of the mostly used vacuum-gyro and the less used high-pressure-gyro is . It is largely related to the instruments in your aircraft but in reality its all about air pressure and the systems are really doing the same thing in the end of the day . Lets look at the evolution a bit , early aircraft that lacked an electrical system generally used a small external venturi to generate low pressure suction for the early gyro instruments . Note the venturi tube in front of the door about half way up the body on this early <URL> . <URL> ( <URL> ) Since it was easy to generate low pressure this way early instruments were built as suction based . As planes got faster and external ( drag educing ) things were removed these systems went internal . Since the instruments were already suction based it was logical to make engine ( or electrical ) suction pumps to drive them . When pumps moved into the engine compartment they came with some issues . Wet suction pumps have an oil issue that can seep into the system and cause issues with the instruments . That was solved with the advent of the dry pneumatic pump however that was a bit more susceptible to debris clogging but could provide both positive and negative pressure . <URL> . However the end result is that both systems provide the same outcome and in the view of the instruments there is no real difference . Gyro Instruments Within the case of the gyro instrument the air flows through the air seals of the gimbalsʼ bearings and across the rotor , spinning the rotor on its axes . The exhausting airflow from the rotor housing applies precession forces to maintain a reference to earth in the attitude gyro and the attitude of the aircraft in the directional gyro . The mechanics of the gyro instrument remain the same , whether it is driven by the airflow in a pressure or vacuum system . The air - flow through the instrument is a result of the differential pressure between the instrumentʼs air inlet and the air outlet ports . In a vacuum system the pressure at the air outlet port is lowered below atmospheric pressure . The differential pressure between the atmosphere and the pump now forces air to flow through the instrument . In a pressure system the pressure at the air inlet port is raised above atmospheric pressure and the airflow is in the same direction . So what are some pros and cons , In a vacuum system the filter is upstream and air is pulled through it and it does a good job of keeping the air clean . ... filtering the air entering the instrument . This filter will remove most contaminates from the air , but moisture is not one of them . Periodic replacement of this filter will ensure clean airflow through the instruments . While in pressure based systems the air filter is generally mounted in line but has a similar effect In a pressure system there is an inline filter in the line between the outlet port of the pump and the inlet port of the gyro instrument . This restricts , but does not completely stop , the flow of all contaminates to the instrument . However pressure systems have a moisture problem since the compression of air creates moisture , this may add moisture while a suction system will only draw ambient moisture . Unfortunately when air is compressed , moisture is created . Although the pressure is extremely low ( approximately 2.5 to 4.5 PSI ) , this system is no exception . Moisture is the No. 1 contaminate , contaminating the gyro bearings in a pressure system . The paper also outlines that both systems are susceptible to downtime due to pump inspections and system maintenance . Which is a con of both systems . Side-question : Are there any other ways to make the Artificial Horizon work ? <URL> <URL> ( <URL> )
How is the pressure difference in passenger plane toilets generated ? The pressure in flight is generated by using the vacuum outside . This dose n't work on the ground or at low altitude , so there 's a pump as well to draw out the air to create an artificial vacuum . Considering that the toilets should also work on the ground , I presume pumps are used - on the other hand , maybe the low pressure is stored inside the tanks from the last flight ? Also , pumps would mean the toilets do n't work when the aircraft is not powered up - is this true ? Not sure about this one , but since the aircraft is seldom not powered when a person is onboard ( maintenance ca n't do much without power either ) , I ca n't think of this being a significant problem . There might be a little bit of leftover pressure . Airbus states that the vacuum pump is powered off the AC power bus , so it may be powered from the ground or the APU when the engines are n't on . Also , how was the engineering problem solved of keeping the pumps or the tubes connecting to the outside free from waste ? As is seen in the picture below , the tank is rinsed out through with the help of a second port on the access cover to clean it out . The rest of the system I believe is designed to last until the next maintenance , when ( I think ) it 's connected up to a high pressure hose to thoroughly clean it out . A320 Toliet System : <URL> Details .
From the Code of Federal Regulations <URL> § 21.613 Duration . ( a ) A TSO authorization or letter of TSO design approval is effective until surrendered , withdrawn , or otherwise terminated by the FAA . ( b ) If a TSO is revised or canceled , the holder of an affected FAA letter of acceptance of a statement of conformance , TSO authorization , or letter of TSO design approval may continue to manufacture articles that meet the original TSO without obtaining a new acceptance , authorization , or approval but must comply with the requirements of this chapter . From the FAA 's page on <URL> : What is the difference between a " Canceled TSO " and " Withdrawal of a TSO authorization " ? A " Canceled TSO " means that the TSO has been rendered inactive and the FAA will no longer issue new TSO authorizations against that particular TSO . However , any existing TSO Authorizations obtained prior to the cancellation of the TSO are still valid and may continue to be manufactured and marked in accordance with that authorization . The " Withdrawal of a TSO authorization " means that a specific authorization letter is withdrawn by the FAA and the approval to manufacture that particular article is terminated . In summary , if the TSO is canceled , you can still make the article but you ca n't apply for a new authorization to that particular TSO revision level . If the TSO is withdrawn , you ca n't even manufacture the article under the TSO system ( i.e. the FAA wo n't let you put a TSO label on it ) . An example of the FAA suspending a TSO Authorization <URL>
To understand how a helicopter works ( and in fact the mechanics of other aircraft too ) , it 's helpful for you to be familiar with a key concept in physics , called Newton 's Third Law of Motion . It says , in general terms , " for every action , there is an equal and opposite reaction " . Here 's a simple thought experiment . Picture yourself wearing a pair of rollerskates , standing up , holding a basketball . Now , throw the basketball out in front of you using a two-hand pass ( bring it to your chest and push it out in front of you ) . You 'll find yourself moving backwards on the skates . You wo n't be moving as fast backwards as the ball will be moving forwards , because you have more mass than the ball , but you 'll move , because the force of you pushing the ball out forward created an equal force moving you in the opposite direction . A helicopter , and in fact most powered aircraft , work the same way . when a helicopter 's rotor moves through the air , it pushes air downwards through a combination of its airfoil design , which moves air downwards as it passes over the top of the rotor , and an upward angle to the blade relative to the oncoming air that pushes the air with the underside of the rotor . By Newton 's Third Law , the force pushing the air downward creates an equal and opposing force pulling the rotor , and the helicopter attached to it , up into the air . <URL> To hover , all that 's required is for this force pulling the helicopter up ( you can consider it as either " lift " or " thrust " ) to equal the force of gravity on the helicopter , which is its weight . If these forces balance , the helicopter will remain the same distance off the ground . If lift is greater then weight , it will rise into the air , while if weight it greater , it will sink or fall . Now , normal aircraft have to move forward through the air in order for their wing to get the airflow needed to generate lift . A helicopter , by rotating its wing , can produce the airflow over the lift surface without the entire helicopter having to move forward ( or backward or sideways for that matter ) . So , it can rise straight up into the air and truly hover over a single spot on the ground . <URL> The tail rotor of a helicopter is necessary to counter another force produced by the helicopter ; torque . Torque is similar to force - really it is a force - but it 's being produced in a circular direction instead of a straight line . The helicopter 's engine uses torque to spin its rotor . Again , by Newton 's Third Law , if the rotor of the helicopter is being spun clockwise by the engine , the helicopter itself will begin to spin counter-clockwise . To counteract this torque , most helicopters have a second , smaller rotor which works the same way as the big one , but directs the force of its thrust sideways in the opposite direction to the way the helicopter 's body wants to spin . <URL> This sideways rotor does n't necessarily have to be on the tail , but it works best if it 's on the end of a long lever arm , such as the tail boom of the helicopter . The closer it is to the main rotor 's shaft , the more thrust it has to produce in order to counteract the torque of the main rotor . It does n't have to be on the side of the tail either ; many modern helicopter designs have the tail rotor spinning inside an aerodynamic duct in the middle of the tail : <URL> Helicopters also do n't necessarily have to have a tail rotor at all ; all that 's required is equal , opposing torque to that of the main rotor . A common substitute for a tail rotor is a second , counter-rotating main rotor : <URL> <URL>
Since you seem not to be concerned about the usability of this hypothetical electric aircraft , let 's make some simplifications : The aerodynamics are so good that it does not create any drag . This is completely unrealistic but helps a lot to simplify things . Structure , controls and propulsion are so advanced that they leave one third of the take-off mass for batteries . Who needs payload anyway ? Efficiency is 80 % . Not even electric propulsion can be lossless . Energy storage is the best current technology has to offer . This would be about <URL> of battery for non-rechargeable lithium cells . To accelerate a battery of the mass m to a speed v needs an amount of energy $ $ E _ \ text { kin } = \ frac { m } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ $ Flying Mach 2 at sea level is impractical ; it helps to climb to at least 6.000 m ( 20.000 ft ) to do so . This adds potential energy : $ $ E _ \ text { pot } = m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ $ Conveniently , the result is independent of mass , so the potential maximum speed is $ $ v _ \ text { max } = \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 3 } \ cdot0 .8 \ cdot1 { , } 800 { , } 000 \ \ mathrm { m ^ 2 \ s ^ { -2 } } - g \ cdot h } $ $ If we solve this for 6000 m , the speed at the end of the acceleration is 949.3 m/s , which is already <URL> . If you prefer to use rechargeable batteries ( 1 MJ/kg ) , the maximum speed drops to Mach 2.15 . If you start to add a reasonable figure for drag , you wo n't even make it to the speed of sound before the batteries are empty . Currently , propellers are the most sensible way to convert electric energy into thrust , and large , low-speed propellers are the most efficient type . If you think to drive a conventional compressor with an electric motor , its subsonic efficiency is already far worse than the assumed 80 % . Even its mass is <URL> with conventional gas turbines .
The ROUTING is DHP 322 radial to WINCO . So that 's the course line that you 'd intercept when so instructed . There is no reason to actually start at DHP , and since you 'll be flying the heading off the runway , the leg from the field to DHP in the Garmin is immaterial . You can expect that they 'll either clear you to WINCO , or ( for a non-RNAV aircraft , most likely ) that they 'll clear you on a heading to intercept the DHP 322 radial to WINCO ( and thence as filed ) , so you 'd cycle the active leg from the { OPF to DHP } leg , to the next leg , which is { DHP to WINCO } ( which is the same as the DHP 322 radial ) , and then you 'd intercept that active leg . Nothing in those instructions is telling you to fly to DHP , nor should you expect that you 'd get a clearance to do so . To answer the question in the title , until you 're told otherwise , you fly the initial heading in the text instructions . You 're on vectors , so do n't turn until told to do so . If you go lost comm , then AVE-F would tell you that you 're on Vectors to WINCO , so get yourself there as best you can , probably by turning direct if you 're RNAV equipped , or flying the radial if not . EDIT : Note , though , that in the normal ( with comm ) case , the DP instruction is NOT to fly heading 273 to intercept the radial ; it is to fly that heading . That 's your only CLEARANCE . ATC will turn you to intercept on whatever heading they want you on . Only in the case of lost comm would you turn to WINCO upon reaching the 322 radial . In all other cases , follow ATC instructions .
Firstly : Flightdeck doors are to the best of my knowledge not hermetically sealed . Secondly : Doors will normally have one of several solutions employed to safely handle explosive decompression : Some doors have panels that pop out to equalise the pressure , especially inwards . Some doors unlock automatically in one or both directions . Needless to say , you need one solution in either direction . Whatever pressure difference there is it will most probably very quickly be equalised and there should not be any difficulty in opening the door if need be .
end question
start question
Do helicopters use static wicks ?
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
First , definitions - The <URL> to to free the pilot from having to exert a constant pressure on the controls i.e. , when the aircraft has been trimmed , there is no need for the pilot ( or autopilot ) to give any control input ( for a set of conditions like level flight or climb ) . An aircraft which is ( statically ) neutrally stable tends to stay in its new attitude when it 's disturbed . For example , if you pitch the nose up by , say $ 2 ^ { \ circ } $ , and then immediately after that it stays at $ 2 ^ { \ circ } $ nose up . As can be seen from above , you need not balance the control surfaces continuously while the aircraft has been trimmed . Stability has to do with the aircraft attitude and not control surface movement . The aircraft ( like F/A -18 Hornet ) require constant operation of flight control surfaces ( by computer ) because they have relaxed static stability - they will oscillate and diverge from an attitude if left to themselves .
Induction motors turn at a speed proportional to frequency , so a high frequency power supply allows more power to be obtained for the same motor volume and mass . Transformers and motors for 400 Hz are much smaller and lighter than at 50 or 60 Hz , which is an advantage in aircraft ( and ships ) . Transformers can be made smaller because the magnetic core can be much smaller for the same power level . Thus , a United States military standard MIL-STD-704 exists for aircraft use of 400 Hz power . So why not use 400 Hz everywhere ? Such high frequencies can not be economically transmitted long distances , since the increased frequency greatly increases series impedance due to the inductance of transmission lines , making power transmission difficult . Consequently , 400 Hz power systems are usually confined to a building or vehicle . <URL> <URL> <URL>
First , some airliners do use it - the <URL> ( Noise and Vibration Suppression ) system to reduce cabin noise . Basically , it uses devices called Active Tuned Vibration Absorbers ( ATVAs ) mounted on the fuselage frames to ' cancel ' the vibrations from propellers and outside noise , thereby quieting the cabin . However , there are some issues with using active noise cancellation in aircraft : The aircraft cabin is quite big and complex , and it would be very difficult to achieve noise cancellation over the entire volume ; as active noise cancellation depends on the cancellation of sound waves using opposite phase , it works best in small , confined spaces . If the waves turn out to be in phase in a region , the sound would be doubled - not a good result . A significant contributor to the noise inside the cabin is the wind outside ; this is usually random and the frequency spectrum is also quite wide , resulting in difficulties in noise cancellation . Noise cancellation is effective mostly when the frequency of the source is constant , which is not usually the case ( the props are an exception - they lend themselves well to noise suppression ) Instead of active noise cancellation , aircraft manufacturers are putting more energy in reducing the noise itself : Better engines , which has lesser noise through the use of chevrons , etc. . Better modelling of aircraft , so that the fuselage design minimizes the noise due to wind . Better damping and cabin design , so the noise produced ( for example , due to air conditioning and ventilation ) is reduced .
Engine placement was a tricky question when jets were introduced , and much has been learned since then . The initial idea was to mount them inside the fuselage or wing root . When they grew too big , they were closely mounted to the wing ( " underslung " position , like in the <URL> , the <URL> or the early <URL> ) . However , the underslung position has two disadvantages : More of the leading and trailing edges is obstructed , blocking space that would otherwise be used for slats and flaps . Consequently , an underslung position reduces maximum lift . The center of gravity of the engine is too far back . Moving it more forward helps to place the center of gravity of the wing ahead of its elastic line . Bending will now create an opposing inertial moment , which is very helpful to dampen flutter . Starting to move the engine downwards away from the wing initially increases drag , because now a narrow slot opens between both with a tendency to separated flow . Only when the engine is moved downwards enough , the drag of the wing-engine arrangement reaches its minimum . This placement was chosen in the next generation of jets like the <URL> or the <URL> . Moving it still further down makes the pylon longer and thus increases the total drag again . The big diameters of modern high-bypass ratio engines make it impractical to move it down enough to reach the drag minimum , but by moving it forward , the engine can again be lifted up , so a shorter landing gear becomes possible . Vortex generators are added if that pesky separation between engine and nacelle can not be avoided .
As far as i know , the helicopter airframes are not reinforced asymmetrically due to this reason . Note that the helicopter has to yaw in both ways - so there is no point in reinforcing only one side . The helicopter airframes are not weak - they are designed to withstand the full envelope of expected loads . Also , it is easier to design and manufacture a symmetric helicopter structure . That said , I 've personally seen at least one case where the torque has affected one side of the helicopter more than the other locally ( especially in tail fin area ) , though the effects were not considered serious enough to warrant a design change .
Typically pilots do not know the 24-bit aircraft address of their aircraft . The 24 bit address is intended for data protocol level of communications and is not used in voice communication . Therefor there is no need for pilots to be aware of their ICAO 24-bit aircraft address . They use the aircraft 's registration if they need to identify the aircraft they are using for the flight . The 24-bit address is used by transponders for communication with Mode-S radars , ADS-B transmissions , by TCAS for tracking traffic and coordinating Resolution Advisories and by Data-Link communications .
The pitot tube is not much of a problem - it 's your typical pitot tube , pointing forward ( toward the nose of the helicopter ) to measure forward airspeed . Airspeed is somewhat less important to a helicopter pilot than it is to a fixed wing pilot since lift is generated by swinging the rotor around instead of moving the whole vehicle through the air . The static port requires a little more thought , because it should be located in an area of " undisturbed air " , and being in rotor wash is certainly not " undisturbed " . On the R22 the static port is actually located inside the shell <URL> and is thus shielded from rotor wash : You could locate the static source in a similar unpressurized-but-shielded compartment in a pressurized helicopter . On other helicopters the static port is on the fuselage as on most aircraft , for example this one is on <URL> : <URL> Note that the static port is slightly recessed on the seasprite to keep it out of direct rotor wash . Multiple static ports may also be used ( again , as you 'll find on other aircraft ) to give an average static pressure and reduce the effects of rotor wash on the static pressure reading . As with all static systems there will still be some degree of error - no system is measuring truly static air . As long as it 's within a reasonable tolerance all the instruments should be able to be calibrated to read correctly though .
I 'm sure it 's possible to use servo motors to get precise control of the ailerons , elevators or the rudder . No , it is n't . Primary flight control actuators require both rather high forces and quick response time . Electric motors can provide either , but both at the same time is a problem . Hydraulics is still better for that combination . Note that other actuators that do n't require the fast response time ( like flaps , gear or horizontal stabilizer foreplane ( elevator trim ) ) are electric in some aircraft .
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
Adding to <URL> , a Defense study -- <URL> -- showed that : ... the precision of movement of the hand and fingers decreases as an unsupported arm is extended . As helicopters need more precise and constant inputs than fixed-wing aircraft , having your arm rest on your thigh is better in terms of comfort and precision .
Yes , but you need <URL> . A rigid head does not have any hinges , instead , the blades flex up and down . Wings do n't know or care if they are upside down or right way up , indeed , <URL> . It only cares how much airflow there is and at what angle it hits it . Here 's an <URL> and a <URL> Perhaps the best around is <URL> Here , Dennis Kenyon shows <URL> He gets close to inverted but never actually flips over .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
First off , there are some light aircraft powered by diesel like the <URL> and the <URL> . It should be noted both come in a 100LL powered version as well . As it stands now the <URL> but has not yet decided/found one . There are also <URL> . But anyway , more to the point , you cant simply put diesel into a regular engine as the ignition system and compression requirements are different . Thus to convert a plane to diesel you need a different engine all together . With that in mind most certifying bodies dont just let you swap airplane engines to any engine you see fit . The engine would need to be certified for the air frame which is a costly proposition . Thus it is sensible and economical to keep the current engines running . There are some efforts like those made by piper and diamond to slowly make diesel aircraft available . As to why 100LL is used , this stems mostly from history . The vast majority of the general aviation fleet both physically and simply in design , stems from the dawn of the jet age . When the lines for the <URL> there was plenty of 100LL to go around , it was for lack of a better term , the logical choice .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
Helicopters are also subject to metal fatigue and there have been accidents attributed to it but the primary determination is component life times . All of the engine , transmission and rotor parts are lifed and most of the control mechanisms . Depending on the helicopter , there will be many more lifed components . Some helicopters also have fixed intervals between major overhauls by the manufacturer . For example , the R22 is effectively rebuilt to an " as new " standard by Robinson at 2,200 hours . Corrosion might also play a part . There may be a time when it is just not economical to continue to repair and service the airframe .
You can persuade a turbine engine to run on just about anything that can burn . So the decision of which fuel to actually use depends on the side factors including , but not limited to : availability cost emissions hot section temperature chemical reactions with engine parts Specific examples : Coal dust is rather difficult to pump around , and the rampies do n't like shovelling liquid hydrogen ( used in the Space Shuttle ) requires a lot of storage and has the nasty habit of freezing anything it touches , like rampies . ethylacetylenedecaborane is unpleasantly toxic ( rampies union again ) and the combustion byproducts were rather abrasive to the engine 's innards trimethylaluminum would reduce the engine complexity ( no igniters needed ) because it has the nasty habit of igniting instantly upon contact with air , so leaks are rather dangerous . natural gas is commonly used as a turbine fuel in pumping stations : it 's already there and thus is " free " . The required pressure vessels make it impractical to use as an aircraft fuel . So kerosene basically became the standard turbine fuel because it 's : cheap : kerosene makes up a rather large fraction of crude oil . When you measure your fuel load in tons a few cents per litre makes a difference . safe to handle : relatively non-toxic , does n't ignite all that easily storable and transportable in common structural metals does n't clog up the engine
While these might not be specifically for static from the prop , <URL> help bleed charge away from the aircraft . Static definitely does build up on an airframe , requiring grounding ( electrically ) your plane before fueling .
It 's a holdover from the old days when microphone technology was n't as advanced . The military adopted " dynamic microphones " as the standard , which were less noisy than the alternative " carbon microphones . " Carbon microphones required a DC bias voltage to operate , and the dynamic ones did not . Fast forward to current airplane microphones , which are electric , and still use a bias voltage , so if you plug a military dynamic microphone into a civilian airplane jack , the microphone would burn out from the voltage . So what ? Well , helicopters were originally very military oriented , so they all were wired for dynamic microphones . They used a different jack to avoid accidentally plugging the wrong type of microphone into the wrong type of jack . Even though helicopters are widely used outside of the military now , the standard remains , and many emergency radio equipment ( fire , medical , police , etc ) still uses the dynamic standard .
end question
start question
What is the major source of engine noise for non-propeller aircraft ?
At full power it is the mixing process of the fast exhaust flow with the surrounding air . Note that noise increases with the sixth to eighth power of jet velocity , so the loudest engines are those with a low bypass ratio and reheat on . Diagram from a <URL> . The jet velocity is in ft/s . At idle the biggest noise source of the whole aircraft is the flow around the lowered landing gear , gear cavities and the slotted flaps that you asked us to disregard . The engine noise is a combination of intake noise , bearing noise and nozzle noise , and which of those contributes most to the engine noise depends on the individual engine and its installation into the aircraft .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
Unofficial Terminology In the United States , the unofficial term is likely based on various official FAA and DOT terms . I can not speak to use of the term outside the United States , but it may be similar , if used at all . This answer will address use in the context of US law and FAA regulations . If a definition of is to be faithful to official sources , that definition could be one such as the following from <URL> : US designation for an air carrier with annual operating revenue of more than one billion dollars , such as American , Northwest , and United Airlines . Also called major carrier . However , as <URL> , the term can be used to refer to the traditional " Legacy Carriers " -- as opposed to newer start up carriers , the " Regionals " , or low cost carriers . The terms are sometimes used interchangeably . Official Terminology The official terminology from which is likely derived has a regulatory basis in <URL> . This section describes the basis for grouping of Large Certificated Air Carriers , and defines the various groups . The following gives the criteria for assessing the level of operations ( note that the nature of operations is assessed separately ) : ( a ) All large certificated air carriers1 are placed into three basic air carrier groupings based upon their level of operations and the nature of these operations . In order to determine the level of operations , total operating revenues for a twelve-month period are used . The following operating revenue ranges are used to establish air carrier groupings : The DOT 's Bureau of Transportation Statistics provides the following similar , but simplified , definition of <URL> : Major Carrier Group : Air carrier groups with annual operating revenues exceeding $ 1,000,000,000 . Answer Thus , to answer your question as to what is required for a US " airline " to be designated as " Major " in an official capacity , the " airline " must : Be a Large Certificated Air Carrier ( see definition below ) , and Have a reported annual revenue of more than $ 1,000,000,000 . Definitions The following are definitions as given in <URL> : 1Large Certificated Air Carrier : An air carrier2 holding a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 , as amended , that : ( 1 ) Operates aircraft designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 60 seats or a maximum payload capacity of more than 18,000 pounds ; or ( 2 ) conducts operations where one or both terminals of a flight stage are outside the 50 states of the United States , the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands . 2Air Carrier : Any citizen of the United States who undertakes , whether directly or indirectly or by a lease or any other arrangement , to engage in air transportation3 . 3 Air transportation : The carriage by aircraft of persons , property , or mail .
Such information is not available , for free , on a world wide level . If you are willing to spend some money , you should have a look at <URL> , which provides such information on a world wide level , for hobby use . However , most countries now make their AIP publically available on the internet . Simply search for " [ country name ] AIP " to look up an AIP for a specific country . In any AIP , you want to look at part 3 of the ENR section . Usually ENR 3.1 , ENR 3.2 or ENR 3.3 . Here is an example of from AIP Denmark : <URL> This information is digital , official , up to date , free and in WGS84 format . However , you will have to look it up for every country . If you are looking for a visual overview of airways and RNAV routes in Europe , a good place to start is the <URL> . You should also check out <URL>
Much longer take-off distance and less endurance , but higher speed at all altitudes with jets . The performance advantage of jets widened with increasing altitude and resulted in a higher service ceiling . Both the <URL> and the <URL> would fly at least 100 km/h faster than any propeller airplane , and the Ar-234 could fly reconnaissance missions over France and England in complete impunity . A Me-262 test variant ( 262 V9 ) with a low-profile canopy reached 600 MPH in level flight . This gave jets the possibility to break off combat at will . They could only be engaged with success when they were flying for a landing with empty tanks or by chance , when the jet pilot was unaware of his opponent . Since the Me-262 was designed to intercept bomber formations , it was not suited for dogfights . The <URL> , on the other hand , was evaluated in 1943 against a FW-190 and would easily outturn the propeller aircraft , so this was not an engine-related characteristic .
Aerodynamic noise has many sources . It is not white noise , because some frequencies are dominant . Generally it happens when flows of different speed collide , or when a standing wave develops in a cavity . Common noise sources are : Uncovered openings , like vent holes or control surface gaps . Like when you blow across the top of an open bottle , they produce a howling sound with a dominant frequency that depends on flow speed and opening size . Tollmien-Schlichting waves in the boundary layer . These frequencies change with speed and their location along the flow path , and generally are responsible for most of the hissing sound of gliders . Separated flow , which produces alternating separations behind blunt bodies . Here the main frequency is that of the Karman vortex street that forms behind them . It can be calculated if the <URL> Sr of the flow is known . This is the equation for the main frequency $ f $ of a bracing wire with the diameter $ d $ : $ $ f = Sr \ cdot \ frac { v } { d } $ $ Here $ v $ is the airspeed , and for bracing wires Sr is normally 0.2 . Bracing wires ( or a blunt trailing edge , for that purpose ) produce a characteristic whistling sound . As you said , the landing configuration makes most noise . In addition to the factors above , you now have Extended flaps , mostly with gaps between them which show high local flow speed . This local high-speed flow is very noisy . Many more blunt objects sticking out of the airframe : Landing gears , gear covers or landing lights . The particular noise of landing gears was once tested with a <URL> which had styrofoam gears fitted under the wings . They broke off when it had to land , but yielded valuable data when compared to the noise of the clean glider . Sorry , there is no photo of this experiment on the web ! The gaping hole of the landing gear well . Especially while the gear is moved , this creates a lot of noise , but even after extension a part of the well is uncovered and adds its noise . <URL> is a good overview of different noise sources . It is best read with a good working knowledge of German . To answer your question : The sound is a mixture of hissing and whistling in different frequencies . If you stand close to the Autobahn ( best is a section without speed restrictions ) , the noise of the passing cars is similar , but less intense . At 180 km/h , engine noise starts to vanish in all the aerodynamic and tire noises ...
Yes . The first published results of measurements made by <URL> of the <URL> on a flat disk can be found in the collection <URL> ( PDF ! ) . He reported on a hysteresis in the angle of attack range between 39 ° and 42 ° , where the wing is either stalled or not , depending from which side this angle of attack range is approached . <URL> Lift and pitching moment coefficients of a flat disk , page 97 of Ergebnisse IV When <URL> tested disk-shaped wings with an <URL> section in the early 1930s in the NACA 7 x 10 ft wind tunnel , he called them circular airfoils . The results of this testing can be found in <URL> ( PDF ! ) from August 1935 . <URL> Figures 10 and 11 from the last page of NACA TN 539 <URL> collected the little data available on circular wings in his book <URL> ( page 17-8 ) and concluded : Disregarding any dreams of " flying saucers " , the athletic implement called discus seems to be the only practical application of a circular planform . However , Zimmerman went on to inspire the <URL> , the " flying pancake " of 1942 , from which the <URL> was developed . <URL> Vought V-173 in flight ( picture <URL> )
Well , engines and rotors obey the same laws regarding induced drag ( induced power in this case ) as wings : larger fan/propeller/rotor is more efficient , but limited to lower speeds . And from that , the advantages should be obvious : Tiltrotors ( <URL> , <URL> ) are only a little less efficient in hover than normal helicopters , but they can only go around 300 knots ( both aircraft have max speed quoted at 275 knots ) ; above that , the tips would become supersonic and generate too much drag . These can be built with engines similar to what a comparable fixed-wing turboprop aircraft would need and can cary comparable payloads with only slightly higher fuel burn . The <URL> is a product for civilian market aiming at charter operators supplying oil platforms and similar remote stations where it should be more efficient than helicopter . The main disadvantage is that they are more complex and therefore more expensive to build and maintain . Tiltjets/vectored thrust jets ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) are horribly inefficient in hover , but they can go fast . Jet engine for thrust/weight ratio 1 ( needed for hover ) takes up most of the aircraft , leaving very little room for payload . Such design and thrust/weight ratio is common in fighters , but out of question for anything else . This configuration also consumes a lot of fuel for take-off and landing . Absolutely no way would anything like that be competitive for commercial operation . However , the military is willing to pay it if they can have a fighter jet that can be deployed from an assault ship . And even they prefer conventional aircraft when possible . This is really niche design , but one that offers enough tactical advantage that the Marines and the Royal Navy want it ( US Navy will use the conventional <URL> with <URL> , Royal Navy decided it will be cheaper to use the <URL> <URL> version than upgrading the carrier they are building to <URL> ) . I ca n't really compare maintenance . Obviously both are more complex than conventional aircraft and even than helicopters . But also , anything military is usually much more maintenance intensive than civilian designs , because military usually wants to squeeze out every bit of performance at the cost of simplicity .
<URL> lists a number of RPM values for different aircraft engines . A typical small turboprop engine , the <URL> , runs its core at 45,000 RPM and the power turbine at 30,000 RPM , which should produce sounds in the ultrasonic region . The picture below shows a cutaway of a PT6 ( <URL> ) ; if you count the blades and take the result times 3 ( the cutaway spans 120 ° ) , the high pressure turbine disc shows 54 blades and the power turbine 42 blades . <URL> Each time one of those blades runs through the wake of a stator blade ahead of it , it will create a pressure change with a frequency of 30,000 · 42/60 = 21 kHz and 45,000 · 54/60 = 40.5 kHz . At idle power , the speed is a bit lower , but not by much . So , yes , the dog might very well have heard a noise inaudible to humans .
It does help a little , yes . One source of noise is the fluctuation in dynamic pressure experienced by a blade of the rear propeller when it cuts through the wake of a blade of the forward propeller . Friction in the boundary layer on the first blade will reduce the dynamic pressure locally and create pressure fluctuations on the second blade , and noise . By using a different number of blades , the pressure fluctuations will not happen all at the same time , but sequentially , which reduces the peak power of the noise . The effect of the second blade cutting through the wake of the first is still there , but is distributed over time . Thanks to @MSalters for pointing out another effect . I copy straight from his comment : The effect is not just distributed over time , but also shifted up in frequency . At 6000 RPM ( 100 Hz ) , with 4 blades per propeller they pass each other 8 times per revolution ( 800 Hz ) . If the second propeller has 5 blades , this moves up to 4000 Hz . <URL> , picture by Marina Lystseva . The forward propeller has 8 blades and the rear propeller has 6 . For optimum noise reduction , the rear propeller should have just one blade less than the forward propeller . The leading edge sweep helps to stretch out the contact of a single blade with the wake over time , which again reduces peak noise .
From Airbus FCOM The clock has two electrical supplies , one of which is a direct connection to the aircraft battery hot bus I can not remember what the other supply was , but DC1 would be a good bet . This seems to imply two things : a ) clock is powered by normal power distribution when generators are working ( DC1 ) and directly linked to main a/c battery when powered down ( HOT BUS 1 ) b ) at least on Airbus the clock itself does not have its own tiny battery
Under the rules of ICAO Annex 1 , Personnel Licensing , you do n't need an ATP License to fly as second in command ( SIC ) on a commercial aircraft required to be operated with a co-pilot . A commercial pilot license ( CPL ) is sufficient to be SIC on an aircraft that requires to be operated by more than a single pilot . And since 2006 ICAO have defined a Multi Crew Pilot License that also allows a pilot to be second in command on a commercial air transportation multi-crew aeroplane . The <URL> about Multi-Crew Pilot Licence ( MPL ) : The MPL allows a pilot to exercise the privileges of a co-pilot in a commercial air transportation on multi-crew aeroplanes . It provides the aviation community with an opportunity to train pilots directly for co-pilot duties . It is a new licence that has been introduced in addition to the existing pilot licences defined in Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing . The licence focuses on ab initio airline pilot training . MPL training and assessment will be competency-based and involve a multi-crew environment and threat and error management from the onset . It provides for greater use of flight simulation training devices and include mandatory upset training . At this stage , only aeroplanes are considered for this new licence . The details of the requirements for the licence are contained in Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing and in the Procedures for Air Navigation Services -- Training ( PANS-TRG ) . These documents outline the minimum international Standard for the implementation of the MPL by any State ; they can be purchased directly from ICAO through the Document Sales Unit . In Annex 1 , the requirements are laid down for the MPL . One of the requirements says : Experience 2.5.3.1 The applicant shall have completed in an approved training course not less than 240 hours as pilot flying and pilot not flying of actual and simulated flight . The MPL , combined with a type rating , will get you to the right hand seat of the aircraft of choice . So it 's likely there are 250-to-500-hours commercial pilots flying Second In Command ( SIC ) into JFK . With experience in Beech Bonanza 's , Cheyenne/Seminole , maybe CitationJet , a lot of simulator time and a couple of hours in a B777 . To answer your title question , in many countries pilots get their ATPL after building hours as SIC flying with a CPL or MPL within an airline training scheme .
The noise is created by sparks caused by static electricity . As the aircraft flies through the air , it picks up electrons from the air molecules . This extra charge will want to flow back into the air to equalize the charge . Small gaps in the conductive path on the aircraft will cause sparks to form . These sparks cause noise on radio frequencies , which can be picked up by the aircraft radios . The static sparks will cause noise on the aircraft radios , sometimes a <URL> . Aircraft use <URL> on trailing edges to allow the charge to equalize . If components are electrically bonded well , static electricity should not be noticeable , other than under <URL> . The wicks are fixed and not telescopic but of course can be removed if replacement is needed .
What you say is true only for turbojets . Generally , all optimum points for propeller-driven aircraft are at lower speeds than those of jet aircraft . The reason is the variation of thrust with speed : For propellers , thrust is inverse to speed , while it is roughly constant over speed for turbojet aircraft in the subsonic speed range . Specifically , the optimum angle of climb condition can be expressed as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = 0 $ $ If we assume a quadratic polar and an expression for thrust which lets us model an exponential variation of thrust over speed ( $ T = T_0 · v ^ { n_v } $ ) , we can write this condition as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } · c_L ^ { - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } · \ frac { T_0 · ( m · g ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } } { \ left ( \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } · S _ { ref } \ right ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } } } + \ frac { c _ { D0 } } { c_L ^ 2 } - \ frac { 1 } { \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ The general solution is $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = - \ frac { n_v } { 4 } · \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } + \ sqrt { \ frac { n_v ^ 2 } { 16 } · \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For jets ( $ n_v = 0 $ ) the solution is quite simple , because the thrust terms are proportional to the thrust coefficient $ n_v $ and disappear : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For turbofan and propeller aircraft , we have less luck and get a much longer formula . This is the one for propellers ( $ n_v = -1 $ ) : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } + \ sqrt { \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ To arrive from here at a flight speed , I recommend to look up the speed in a polar . Solving this analytically will get messy . Below I have plotted a generic climb speed over air speed chart for different thrust loadings of a typical turbofan . The blue lines show thrust ( right Y-axis ) and the green lines the resulting climb speed . The two black lines show how the optimum flight speed for best climb speed and best climb angle ( steepest climb ) vary over thrust loadings . They are easy to find graphically : Pick the tops of the green curves for best climb and the steepest tangent from the origin of the coordinate system to the green lines for best climb angle . Note that they cross when moving from positive to negative climb speeds . With a propeller , the results will look similar , however , the best climb speed line would be vertical . This will collect all optima at the low speed range of the plot - using a turbofan makes the effects easier to see because the optima are spread out more . <URL> Climb optima for different thrust loadings ( own work ) The optimum climb speed ( which is proportional to $ \ frac { 1 } { c_L ^ 2 } $ ) varies inversely with the square of the thrust loading ( $ \ frac { T _ { ref } } { m · g } $ ) ² of the aircraft . With lots of excess thrust , the optimum is limited by the stall speed ( the black line bends into a vertical trend ) , while with no excess thrust both optimum speeds $ v_x $ and $ v_y $ converge . This makes sense : If thrust is just sufficient to keep the airplane from descending at one speed , this speed will both give the best flight path angle and the best vertical speed ( unfortunately , both will be 0 at this point ) . It also helps to reduce induced drag , so aircraft with a high aspect ratio wing will climb steepest at a higher lift coefficient ( = lower speed ) . The steepest climb optimum looks a little more compact if we use the induced drag coefficient directly : $ $ c _ { L _ { \ gamma _ { max } } } = \ frac { 2 · m · g · ( c _ { D0 } - c _ { Di } ) } { T } $ $ but since the lift coefficient is hidden again in the induced drag term , and so sits on both sides of the equation , it is much harder to draw conclusions from this version . Nomenclature : $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ n_v \ :\ :\ : $ thrust exponent , as in $ T \ sim v ^ { n_v } $ $ T \ :\ :\ :\ : $ thrust $ m \ :\ :\ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $ $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ \ epsilon \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ the wing 's Oswald factor $ c _ { D0 } \ : $ zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ induced drag coefficient
Q1 : Assuming that by operating temperature you mean turbine inlet temperature , <URL> article says the Pratt &amp; Whitney F135 engine in the F-35 ( JSF ) has a TIT of 3600F , but that most high performance aircraft engines do not exceed 3000F , while non aviation engines are nearer 2700F or lower . Exact figures for modern engines are very unlikely to be stated in public . Mattingly , in his <URL> " Elements of Propulsion : Gas Turbines and Rockets " has a table ( 6-2 , P363 ) that gives a general guideline , depending on the age of the engine . He says : 1955-1965 2000 R = 1540F 1965-1985 2500 R = 2040F 1985-2005 3200 R = 2740F 2005-2025 3600 R = 3140F The GE <URL> gas turbine which had its first run in 1954 is claimed to have a TIT of 1710F , so these guidelines look reasonable . Q2 : Increasing the turbine inlet temperature allows more fuel to be added , which increases thrust and hence thrust to weight ratio , and specific thrust ( thrust per lb of air ingested ) . Increasing TIT ( at the same pressure ratio ) also has some effect on improving the specific fuel consumption . At the same TIT , SFC is improved by increasing the compressor pressure ratio . The chart <URL> shows the effects for a particular engine , the specific effects will differ for each engine depending on the bypass ratio etc. . <URL> Q3 : There are three methods that can be used to cool turbine parts . The primary approach is to bleed off a portion of the compressor exit air , which then bypasses the combustion , and is feed into the turbine vanes and blades . The below picture also includes <URL> for the % flow of compressor exit air that is used . <URL> Other methods that are often used as well include the use of small holes over the blades and vane surfaces , through which the cooling flow emerges . This provides a film of cool air over the part , and is known as film cooling ( left picture ) . On some more modern engines , thermal barrier coatings are also used ( right picture ) . These are ceramic coatings that act as insultion of the base metal from the hot gas . Usually the TBC is added as an extra method to help gain additional part life . But sometimes , the TBC is needed to obtain the base life , and is then know as <URL> . <URL> <URL>
You are right , more blades are bad for <URL> ( follow the link for the definition ) . <URL> . Every additional blade will cause disturbances which interfere with the flow on the other blades . When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that , the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . This is done by either increasing blade chord or the number of blades . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way to transform that engine power into thrust . Take the Supermarine Spitfire : The prototype , powered by the 1,030 hp <URL> , had a two-bladed propeller From the Mk II , a three-bladed propeller was fitted to accommodate the increasing power of the RR Merlin ( 1,470 hp for the Spitfire Mk V ) . With the <URL> , a four-bladed propeller was needed for the 1,575 hp of the supercharged Merlin 61 . From the <URL> , the more powerful Rolls-Royce Griffon made a five-bladed propeller necessary . Engine power was raised from 1,735 hp to 2,300 hp for the last variant , the Mk XXIV . <URL> Rolls-Royce Griffon-powered Supermarine Spitfire ( picture <URL> ) A lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction . Consequence : You can not make the propeller bigger and spin it more slowly for a given power . An extreme example for a propeller with a high activity ratio is the <URL> contra-rotating propeller of the <URL> powering the <URL> : <URL> SV-27 propellers on the An-70 ( picture <URL> ) . Eight blades in the forward disc and six in the rear , running at only 1200 RPM . In order to reduce Mach effects , all blades have a swept tip and deep chord . This can only be topped by something like an <URL> . A turbofan , in other words .
Avoid rotating the propeller through a compression of one of the cylinders . You can easily rotate the propeller in either direction safely about 45 degrees before you feel a cylinder in compression . If you want to pull the propeller completely through a compression stroke you must be prepared for it to snap around after reaching the top of the compression stroke and that is how you must have whacked your knee . Normally after an engine shutdown the mixture is pulled to idle cutoff which would prevent fuel reaching the cylinders . Also if procedures are followed the magnetos that generate ignition sparks should be off after the end of a flight . So in theory it should be safe to pull the propeller thru during preflight . But still you need to consider that it is not completely without some small risk that the engine could start simply because humans make errors and machines can need maintenance .
It seems you are looking for domestic flights in the US . The FAA database is not public . You can use ADS-B tracking sites to look at the route . Remember instructions after takeoff ( departure and transition ) and before landing ( transition and approach ) are determined late and can be changed , depending on winds and other parameters . E.g. on Flight Aware , for <URL> between LAX and JFK , the route is mentioned : <URL> and can be decoded : <URL> These sites also create <URL> . After a certain number of days , it 's paying .
it is being claimed by the Airbus that their new planes offer more sound proofing than those of Boeing I guess you mean <URL> : No matter where they sit , all passengers benefit from the quiet A380 cabin with on average half the sound energy of other aircraft . Passengers ' feedback confirms the extraordinary contribution to their general well-being due to the absence of background noise on the A380 . In market research surveys the A320 is regularly rated higher than its rivals for the low level of noise in its cabin . Effective insulation in the cabin is one reason why passengers say they find the A320 a quiet aircraft in which to fly . The A320 cabin is the subject of continuous improvements and in its latest version , the noise has been reduced by a further 1dB . how do Airplane manufacturers tackle the problem of soundproofing the cabin There are a variety of methods soundproofing materials in the wall of the fuselage between inner and outer skins . choice of interior materials and furnishings etc. . adjusting cabin interior contours to allow lower airflow velocity . fuselage aerodynamics . engine nacelle accoustic liners . scalloped edges on engine exhaust nozzle . larger slower engine fans . sharklets . etc BBC <URL> One of the main sources of noise is wind . So during the design phase of modern aircraft , computational tools model the aerodynamics of the aeroplane to highlight areas of high airflow that are likely to increase cabin noise . This allows engineers to reshape their designs , says Alan Pardoe , director of product marketing at Airbus . Such techniques , he says , helped the double-decker Airbus A380 plane to be recognised by the UK Noise Abatement Society as the quietest jet airliner on the market . Airbus <URL> When it comes to making the A380 one of the quietest aircraft in the sky , it 's the small details that count ... in fact , more than 3 million of them ! This is the number of tiny perforations in acoustic linings on the large nacelles that surround and protect the A380 's jet engines . The acoustic material helps dampen noise created by the airliner 's four turbofan powerplants , ensuring the A380 is a friendly neighbour wherever it operates in the world . The A380 's nacelles are supplied by Aircelle , which has worked closely with Airbus in minimising the jetliner 's noise output during takeoff and landing . Acoustic panels are applied throughout the engine -- from the air inlet to the exhaust nozzle . Each panel , which is produced from composite material or titanium , is designed to attenuate noise at different frequencies , further improving the soundproofing effect . Noise-reducing innovations include Aircelle 's 2-degree-of-freedom acoustic panels , which use a stack of two honeycomb composite sandwich layers separated by a porous wall . These panels dampen high-frequency noise from the engine turbines . With much of this noise source successfully dampened by the acoustic treatment , engineers and designers are now focusing their attention on treating other sources of aircraft noise , promising even quieter jetliners for the future . and <URL> The Airbus-developed Zero-Splice engine nacelle liner was designed to reduce the noise generated by the jet engines ' large fan , which represents almost half the noise during both approach and take-off . Following extensive studies carried out by Airbus on how to reduce fan noise , it was found that splices used to join the engine nacelle inlet 's acoustic panels generated forward fan noise -- which was counter-efficient to the liner 's acoustic treatment . Airbus therefore developed the Zero-Splice nacelle liner as a single 360 deg . piece of composite , which is comparable in size to the diameter of an A320 fuselage . It is , I think , obvious that measures that reduce engine noise on the ground also reduce it in the cabin . They also write about how wing sharklets reduce noise . I 'd guess there are many other measures and design choices that are introduced to reduce noise . What proportion of the total aircraft development cost ... I 'd be surprised if Airbus or Boeing make public any breakdown of their development costs . You can find general breakdowns like the following but I havent found any that break out soundproofing development costs . <URL>
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
end question
start question
Is it possible to use a split rudder as an air brake ?
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
Currently , there seems to be little official definition , and the term MAV appears is relatively new . The only <URL> on the topic I could find that specifically approached the area defined it as : " small enough to be practical for a single-person transport and use . " ( Galiński and R. Żbikowski , 2007 ) Delft University of Technology section on <URL> provide no clear definition in their documents . I think the definition seems to more subjective to the flying properties to the UAV , which might make the definition more difficult . Since they are not carrying people but sensors , they will be much more varying in weight , especially in with time . One example , the <URL> has a flight time of 25 minutes . This one is a very small but has a respectable flight time . This will not simplify definition . I think the term coined by Galiński and Żbikowski is the most useful in a practical sense . Update : University of Texas <URL> on the DARPA competion says : The definition employed in DARPAs program limits these aircraft to a size less than 15 centimeters ( 6 in . ) in length , width , or height . MAVs must have a weight of 50 grams or less and must be capable of staying aloft for 20 to 60 minutes for a distance of 10 kilometers . The pure source for this this , while not avaliable any longer , I believe I found to be The definition employed in DARPA 's program limits these craft to a size less than 15 cm ( about 6 inches ) in length , width or height . <URL> There are currently no civilian classifications for UAVs from the FAA or EASA , hence the legal problem with these . Most army and air force drones operate under military exceptions if I 'm not mistaken .
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
Yes , we can ask you to plan your landing roll in a certain way . We wo n't technically instruct you to brake the aircraft in a specific way , but simply to aim for a specific taxiway after landing . There can be different reasons for this , but generally it is an attempt to expedite traffic flow on the ground at the airport . For example , if you are landing on a long runway and your parking position is near the far end of the runway , I might ask you to keep the plane rolling down the runway and vacate at the end , in order for you to have a shorter taxi time . It could also be that the taxiway you would normally use to leave the runway is blocked by another aircraft or vehicle , and I want you to leave the runway via a taxiway that is further down the runway . However , extending the landing roll does extend the runway occupancy time as well , so if there is another aircraft behind you on short final I will not offer you to perform a long landing roll . This is also why you should always ask ATC if you are planning to perform a long landing for one reason or the other -- if we have someone else just a couple miles behind you , we might have to instruct them to go around if you do not vacate the runway like we expect you to . With regards to reverse thrust specifically , there are airports where the use of reverse thrust is only permitted in special situations . This is to reduce the noise level at and around the airport . However , this is purely a regulatory thing , and is not actually related to ATC . ICAO offers the following guidance on the subject ( DOC 4444 ) : 7.10.3.1 When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic , a landing aircraft may be requested to : a ) hold short of an intersecting runway after landing ; b ) land beyond the touchdown zone of the runway ; c ) vacate the runway at a specified exit taxiway ; d ) expedite vacating the runway . 7.10.3.2 In requesting a landing aircraft to perform a specific landing and/or roll-out manoeuvre , the type of aircraft , runway length , location of exit taxiways , reported braking action on runway and taxiway , and prevailing meteorological conditions shall be considered . A HEAVY aircraft shall not be requested to land beyond the touchdown zone of a runway .
Planes as early as the <URL> had a rudder , it appears from pictures that the 1900 and 1901 variants did not have rudders but its hard to tell from the photos . <URL> Depending on your definition if you are talking about powered flight the <URL> had 2 rudders much like its earlier glider predecessor . <URL> In the lighter than air category , the <URL> had a sail like rudder in the aft of the ship . So that may take the cake if you have consider it a true rudder . <URL> Side Note : Patented in <URL> could be argued as the first design that did not ( as far as I know ) employ a rudder . The earlier <URL> are the most common plane of that design in commercial production . There is quite a bit of <URL> as to the safety of ruddervators and the general theme seems to be that they are not perfect and do require some care to fly properly .
Unless you tell us which book you read this in ( and what exactly it said ) , it is not possible to answer your question ( the answer depends on whether the zero angle of attack is that of the airframe or the airfoil ( wing ) ) . We can try for a general answer though . As far as angle of attack is concerned , there are two kinds - geometric and absolute . First , angle of attack is the angle between some reference line and the freestream ( i.e. the velocity vector ) . The selection of reference line determines the ' kind ' of angle of attack . Geometric angle of attack , $ \ alpha $ is the angle between the chord and freestream ; this is the one usually used . Absolute angle of attack , $ \ alpha_a $ is the angle between the freestream and the zero lift line ( the line , which when parallel to the freestream , produces no lift in the wing ) . The geometric and absolute angles of attack can be related through $ \ alpha_a = \ alpha - \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ , where $ \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ is the angle between the chord and zero lift line . <URL> Relation between geometric and absolute angles of attack , image from <URL> For a cambered airfoil , the zero lift line is negative i.e. the airfoil will produce lift even when the geometric angle of attack is zero ( in this condition , the absolute angle of attack is positive ) . For a symmetric airfoil , of course , the zero lift line coincides with the chord and as such , the airfoil produces no lift when the geometric ( or absolute ) angle of attack is zero . As far as the lift is concerned , what matters is the absolute angle of attack , while we usually use the geometric one . Simply put , what matters is the absolute angle of attack of the wing . If this value is positive , lift will be produced and level flight is possible , whatever the aircraft attitude .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Yes , a hot air balloon would change class , if you are adding an engine and propeller to provide thrust . With powered flight comes the need to provide some form of flight control ; at this point , you have an airship , albeit a <URL> . According to the FAA 's <URL> , and much like @voretaq7 's citation in another answer : An airship is an engine-driven , lighter-than-air aircraft , that can be steered . The FAA has a whole section on <URL> , for further reading .
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
Sweden currently has a surplus of controllers , so you are unlikely to find open positions . However , since you are a qualified controller and speak Swedish , you should be qualified to apply for any position that might come up . I suggest you have a look at LFV , which is the largest Swedish ANSP : www.lfv.se/en
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
Long story short , as best I can tell everywhere except Kazakhstan uses the ICAO SNOWTAM format . Kazakhstan uses two different Russian formats depending on what airport you 're at , which is an interesting approach to say the least . First , the Russian format is described <URL> , it 's a decimal value where less than 0.31 is " unreliable " and more than 0.41 is " good " . In fact , there are two Russian values : the " raw " value as measured directly by a friction device , and the " normative " value that is derived from the raw one ( although I could n't find any explanation of how ) . I guess that the raw value is supposed to be the actual <URL> . The <URL> , on the other hand , is an integer value from 1 to 5 . ( Incidentally , I 'm aware that I 'm blurring the distinction between format and values here , but since there is so little definite information on this topic available - at least in English - I do n't think it matters much . ) The Russia and CIS AIP includes a <URL> that states : [ ... ] friction coefficient will be distributed by means of SNOWTAM in ICAO format ( Annex 15 ) That immediately suggests that Russia and the CIS now use the ICAO format , and considering the lack of any information about Russian format SNOWTAMs in the AIP or on the web in general , it seems very likely that the ICAO format is now the main or only one in use . However , Kazakhstan appears to be an exception . There is a <URL> for Almaty airport ( ICAO : UAAA ) in Kazakhstan that includes this remark : K0706/13 NOTAMN Q ) UAAA/QFBCS/IV / M/A / / / 4321N07702E A ) UAAA B ) 1312010001 C ) PERM E ) AT ALMATY AERODROME THE INFORMATION ON RUNWAY BRAKING ACTION IS TRANSMITTED BY ATIS AS FOLLOWS : IN ENGLISH-IN VALUES OF ESTIMATED SURFACE FRICTION RELATIVE TO MEASURED '' SFT '' FRICTION COEFFICIENTS . IN RUSSIAN-IN NUMERICAL VALUES OF NORMATIVE '' RUSSIAN '' FRICTION COEFFICIENTS . There is a very similar NOTAM for Shymkent ( ICAO : UAXX ) that includes this almost-but-not-quite-the-same remark : K0707/13 NOTAMN Q ) UAXX/QFBCS/IV / M/A / / A ) UACC UATT UAII B ) 1312010001 C ) PERM E ) AT ALL AERODROMES EXCEPT ALMATY THE INFORMATION ON RUNWAY BRAKING ACTION IS TRANSMITTED BY ATIS OR ATC AS FOLLOWS : IN ENGLISH-IN VALUES OF ESTIMATED SURFACE FRICTION RELATIVE TO NORMATIVE '' RUSSIAN '' FRICTION COEFFICIENTS . IN RUSSIAN-IN NUMERICAL VALUES OF NORMATIVE '' RUSSIAN '' FRICTION COEFFICIENTS . There is no similar NOTAM for any major Russian airport . If I put all this information together , it appears that : Russia and the CIS now use the ICAO format for SNOWTAMs Almaty in Kazakhstan reports braking action in the ' raw ' Russian format All other Kazakhstan airports report braking action in the ' normative ' Russian format
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
Imagine you have a 60 knot headwind . You have to fly an indicated airspeed of 60 knots and you can hover over the ground . If you want you can try it out in flight sim , it makes lots of fun . That 's called a STOL .
Modern airborne fire-control radars seem to have a weather mode . <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( brochure PDF links ) . <URL> suggests a " weather observation " capability in modern combat planes : Digital capabilities allow a radar to change its functionality at will , resulting in the modern " multimode radars " carried by combat aircraft .
Yes , but you need <URL> . A rigid head does not have any hinges , instead , the blades flex up and down . Wings do n't know or care if they are upside down or right way up , indeed , <URL> . It only cares how much airflow there is and at what angle it hits it . Here 's an <URL> and a <URL> Perhaps the best around is <URL> Here , Dennis Kenyon shows <URL> He gets close to inverted but never actually flips over .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
I understand your question as : " do we have yet the required interfaces for a computer to fully interact with an aircraft " . This is indeed the prerequisite before any intelligent system can pilot an aircraft . That means could we yet plug a system into some bus to receive all signals available to a human pilot and send all commands a human pilot can issue . The answer is no ( e.g. a computer can not lower the gears or receive electronic signals from the wet compass ) , but the required updates are not so large and involve limited retrofitting . Of course , we do n't have this computer yet , but this kind of software is not a huge step either ( and anyway this is not in the scope of your question ) . Would such system be economically profitable for an airline in term of safety , certification , operational cost , software maintenance , compared to a human first officer ? If the answer is yes , then this is a matter of maybe 10 years before a full electronic pilot is tested . I doubt the answer is yes , it could be useful , but it will have an additional cost , so there could be a long time before we see it in a cockpit .
end question
start question
What are the differences in door types in a commercial airliner ?
The only formal classification of door types that I could find is in <URL> , which specifies the emergency exit requirements for transport category aircraft . It defines Type I-IV , Type A-C , ventral and tailcone exits . The doors you usually enter and leave the aircraft through are probably type I or A : Type I . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high , with corner radii not greater than eight inches . Type A . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high , with corner radii not greater than seven inches . These definitions are quite generic , but Transport Canada has a handy list of <URL> that gives specific details ( often including the type ) for many common aircraft . It says this for the 767 main doors : B-767-200 / 300ER ( Doors 1L/R FWD , 2L/R AFT ) Note : Some models equipped with 2 additional type 1 exits L/R just forward of wing . H - 1.88 m ( 6 ft 2 in ) W - 1.07 m ( 3 ft 6 in ) ; Type A Equivalent force required to move door control handle from closed/locked position to open position ( Normal and Emergency ) : 12 kg ( 26 lbs ) . Approximate force required to open a door ( lift upward ) from unlocked to open : 18 kg ( 40lbs ) . " Counterbalance " opening design . Inward/upward opening doors . Manually operated except some models equipped with electrical ( normal operation ) opening/closing option ( FWD Entry Door ) . Unique arming/disarming mechanism ( lever , indicators ) . Release button must be depressed and held to move arming lever to " Slide Armed " mode . Yellow plastic " Emergency Use Only " ( bendable ) flag moves upward in front of Door Control Handle when slide is in armed mode . Double channel slides . Upward rotating Door Control Handle . " Uplatch " mechanism holds door in open position . Button must be depressed while door is lowered initial few inches , to release . You can see from that list that the details can vary a lot , even if the basic designs are very similar . Coming up with pros and cons for every variant would be tough ( especially for me , since I know nothing about it ! ) , but obviously some aircraft are larger than others and that will limit how much space is available for the door mechanism . There are also operational considerations : aircraft that frequently operate out of smaller airports without <URL> may need to have <URL> , which are usually built into the doors .
I just ran some numbers based on Wikipedia statistics . I do n't know how they define " incident or accident " but hull loss is pretty straightforward . That means it was written off . All of these were introduced in the late 1960 's . As you can see , the DC-10 , L-1011 , and 727 , which are mostly retired , have pretty bad numbers . But the aircraft that are still being made and flown have much better stats . I think this is probably due to the fact that air travel gets safer all the time . The planes that had their heyday in the 70 's and 80 's fared poorly but the longer they continue to be produced , the less likely they are to crash .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
Retrofitting is ( as the comments to your post have already stated ) rather difficult and unusual . In addition , the quality of service from such an aircraft you could expect to get would most probably not be great . Analogy : Try changing your minibus for 9 people into minivan for freight and industrial work . It is also worth mentioning that the difference in operation is substantial between bombers and commercial jets . You would be better off using something that is not that complicated , like a Cessna Caravan for instance . I think that energy , time and money would be better spent on building more dedicated aircraft . Changing the commercial ones is also not trivial and will require engineered changes . It is however fully possible to design a military derivative of a commercial jet . The <URL> is an example of this , being based off the Boeing 737 with the necessary modifications . The armament is also fairly extensive : 5 internal and 6 external stations for AGM-84H / K SLAM-ER , AGM-84 Harpoon , Mark 54 torpedo , missiles , mines , torpedoes , bombs , and a High Altitude Anti-Submarine Warfare Weapon system [
Short answer Determination of mass and balance ( or weight and balance ) is a critical task for the crew , an error in this operation may have tragic consequences . Weighing passengers and carry-on items is mandatory per regulation . Either standard predetermined weights , or actual weights can be used in this operation . Airlines usually use predetermined tables . Tables values take into account different types of travel ( e.g. regular and charter ) . While the weight must be checked , the center of gravity location is of equal importance . The distribution of the passengers in the aircraft is also taken into consideration . Aircraft are not weighed prior to each flight , but the basic empty weight must be known and checked periodically per regulation . Aircraft are weighed simply using scales under the carriages :-) ( <URL> ) The other method is to use jacks . See further below for an image . So this was the short answer . To understand why and how to balance the aircraft , there are quite a lot elements to introduce . For those interested , just continue ! Weight ... The different elements composing the takeoff weight : <URL> All of these elements must be determined prior to taxi and takeoff . The mass of these elements are necessary to check that the different maximum weights are not exceeded . However there is another aspect of the masses which needs to be secured : Where are the masses located ? Taking KeithS ' example , if there are many heavy people grouped in the forward section , we may have a problem at <URL> , even if the <URL> is not exceeded . ... and balance . Location of the center of gravity vs. the MAC The masses must be distributed so that the center of gravity of the aircraft is located within limits determined relatively to the aerodynamic chord , and the center of lift . This is required to ensure the stability and the maneuverability , to minimize the efforts on the horizontal and vertical stabilizers and to increase the maximum lift and reduce the drag . On airliners , the center of lift must be located between the CG and the center of lift of the horizontal stabilizer , so that the latter pushes downward to balance the weight . On airliners the width of the wing is greatest where it meets the fuselage at the wing root and progressively decreases toward the tip . As a consequence , the chord also changes along the span of the wing . The average length of the chord is known as the mean aerodynamic chord ( <URL> ) . The MAC is a portion of the wing , delimited by LeMAC ( leading , 0 % ) and TeMAC ( trailing , 100 % ) . The CG must be located in the MAC . In large aircraft , center of gravity limitations and the actual center of gravity are often expressed in terms of % MAC ( on the roll axis , similar limits exist on the two other axis ) . ( image and text around : <URL> ) In general , in large transport aircraft , the most forward CG is located as forward as 5 % MAC , while the most aft location as aft as 40 % MAC . The average CG limits in large transport aircraft are between 20 and 30 % MAC . As commented by Calchas , using wrong weights for the passengers ( adults instead of children ) may move the CG to a wrong location , not balanced by the trim , and create strong difficulties during the takeoff and the initial climb . PAX weight applicable procedures For an airliner , the PAX portion is relatively small compared to the total mass , so the passengers mass is usually estimated based on standard passenger mass tables and the number of PAX per cabin section . Each airline may provide its own standard mass tables , but standard tables are proposed with the applicable regulation : <URL> or EU-OPS1 for Europe ( section <URL> ) . Values valid in 2008 : ( <URL> ) Those tables have been establish using airlines data obtained by surveys . They are updated from time to time . In case the operator wants to establish their own equivalent tables , <URL> provides a detailed operating mode to sample passengers and weigh them . For the EU , a new survey was conducted by the European Aviation Safety Agency in 2009 and a proposal for table updates issued : <URL> At this point you may want to download the documentation I 'm mostly using for this post : <URL> . We are at page 54 . Special cases There are cases where it is obvious the actual mass and balance will be erroneous if the standard tables are used ( this is especially true for a small cabin ) . In these cases the operator must improve the evaluation by actual weighing of either all or a sample of passengers and their baggage . The procedure already mentioned for establishing standard tables is used ( <URL> ) . Putting all elements together All masses , arms ( distance to the reference center ) and <URL> are finally reported on the aircraft manifest to calculate the correction that must be used for the takeoff ( trim amount ) . Basic empty weight determination The aircraft is not weighed for each takeoff , still it has been weighed to determine its basic empty weight and its center of gravit
Why not ? There have been <URL> of near-sonic and even <URL> dashes by the Boeing 747 , and the damage to the <URL> elevator was done by landing gear doors which ripped off when the main gear was extended and its doors hit the elevator . There have been a few unintentional supersonic dives , and in those cases the actions taken by the crew to decelerate caused damage to the aircraft . <URL> , a Boeing 727 which rolled into a dive , and China Airlines Flight 006 overstressed the airframe , but both aircraft returned to service after repairs . IAI experience tells me it needs a dive with a nose-down angle of 18 ° to get a Boeing 747 to Mach 0.98 . Since almost all surfaces experience already supersonic flow at this speed , going the step to Mach 1.01 would need not much more , maybe 25 ° . Pulling up from such a dive by means of the stabilizer should entirely be possible without exceeding g limits .
The short answer is that you need to get an <URL> ( special permission ) , as required by <URL> : § 91.311 Towing : Other than under § 91.309 . No pilot of a civil aircraft may tow anything with that aircraft ( other than under § 91.309 ) except in accordance with the terms of a certificate of waiver issued by the Administrator . ( <URL> is about towing gliders , so banner towing comes under 91.311 . ) You need at least a private pilot certificate to tow banners - sport and recreational pilots are n't allowed to do it - but since most banner towing is paid work , in practice the pilot will usually have a commercial certificate ( this is from the waiver instructions ) : When banner tow operations are conducted for compensation or hire , the pilot must have at least a limited commercial pilot certificate ( without an instrument rating ) and at least a valid second class medical certificate . An instrument rating is not a requirement for this operation . The FAA has a <URL> and the waiver issue process has more administrative details . There do n't seem to be many specific airspace requirements apart from the obvious , e.g. no towing in a TFR zone . But the FAA can impose more or less any conditions that they like as part of a waiver , and it will include the approved times and areas for operation . ( As an aside , it 's widely believed in the pilot community that the permanent <URL> and <URL> TFRs are really there to prevent banner towing , not to increase security . )
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
PNR is a passenger 's / party 's record . PNL is the full list of all the PNR 's . Example : John Smith is a party of 1 , that 's the PNR entry . And he is number 7 on the PNL .
GPS units paired with older autopilots such as the S-TEC 30/50 mentioned here do not automatically give GPSS steering to the autopilot unless the GPS has a GPSS system built in . In this case the additional GPSS unit swaps between traditional NAV/APR/BC modes that seek using deflection from the CDI and GPSS steering which is data-driven straight from the GPS . It is possible to get a PFD that has GPSS built in as well ( Aspen Evolution ) and takes care of this functionality . A functional difference between these two systems is demonstrated as such with a Garmin GNS-530W / 430W and an STEC-50 autopilot with the separate GPSS unit : 1 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS off ( or not installed ) the autopilot treats the GPS input signal as a CDI input - in other words , if there is a course change of greater than 10 degrees in either direction the autopilot will follow no guidance and do whatever it wants to , for example ignoring a 90 degree right turn in the flight plan ( other than making an initial heading change of a few degrees while attempting to track as the CDI quickly goes full deflection ) and then continuing on in whatever random way it wants without following guidance or a flag showing on the CDI ( there is no flag because the guidance is present , but it 's out of range just like a VOR signal would be ! ) . Accordingly all major course changes must be executed manually or in heading mode by hand then the autopilot is engaged in NAV mode to track the course once it is captured and within 10 degrees of the present course . 2 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS on the GPSS unit sends direct roll steering commands to the autopilot that are extremely accurate . The autopilot must always be in HDG mode to accept these inputs . The heading bug on the DG or HSI is effectively ignored while GPSS is engaged . Here 's an example : while tracking a course ( or really at any point in flight ) , selection of a 90 degree right turn ( say , direct to ) in the GPS will result in direct roll steering commands being given to the autopilot and the autopilot executing those commands and following them extremely closely within the parameters of the autopilot design ( standard rate turn , etc. ) , resulting in an automatic turn to the new course , including automatic intercept of that course if the GPS performs that function , and any following courses and changes being flown precisely and automatically as they are sequenced in the flight plan . Source : I now own an aircraft that has this system and operate it all the time .
At the commercial airline level , there is very little difference between a captain and a first officer , other than the amount of time that they have been at the company ( seniority ) . Typically , each of the two pilots takes turns flying the airplane . For instance , if today 's trip is from Miami to Charlotte to Chicago to Atlanta to Miami , the captain may fly from Miami to Charlotte , the first officer from Charlotte to Chicago , the captain from Chicago to Atlanta , and the first officer from Atlanta back to Miami . The duties in the cockpit are divided between the Pilot Flying ( PF ) and the Pilot Not Flying ( PNF ) / Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) . These duty positions are independent of the captain/first officer designation . The PF is responsible for physically flying the airplane ( usually only during takeoff and landing ) and for controlling the autopilot . If the autopilot acts up , the PF immediately takes over .
The difference is in mission , and the difference is non trivial . The twin rotor configuration goes back to the 1960 's . ( <URL> . The CH-47 replaced it in Viet Nam in 1965 ) . Chinook became the Army 's heavy tactical lift during Vietnam . Like the C-130 , that particular design is timeless . The CH-47F is the current configuration . It carries about twice as much as a CH-46 could . It is also one of the faster helicopters there is ( it can fly almost 200kts ) though the CH-53E has flown faster . The CH-46 was an adaptation of the same idea , but made smaller and marinized : it had to meet a host of Marine Corps and Navy requirements to fit on amphibious ships and supply ships . Space and fit are non-trivial limitations when writing requirements for naval aircraft . ( As an aside , the US military no longer operates the CH-46 . It appears that the last CH-46 squadron in the USMC , <URL> , let go of its last Phrogs in 2015 <URL> <URL> ) Not having to take off some power for a tail rotor is an advantage . The CH-46 mission for the Marine Corps was vertical assault ( it carried more than a Huey and predecessors like <URL> ) ; for the Navy , it was the <URL> mission . The payload and maneuvering benefits from the lack of a tail rotor made the VERTREP mission a perfect fit for the CH-46 . One of the challenges in ship borne operations is the ability to run simultaneously resupply by air and ship-to-ship ( <URL> ) while not being operationally constrained ( for the ship drivers ) " getting into the wind . " That limitation tail rotor helicopters do n't handle as well as the CH-46 . ( That point was a core argument against CH-60S as replacement for CH-46 ; but that 's another matter ) . I 've flown VERTREP in helicopters with tail rotors ; the CH-46 was less constrained than we were . What about Marine and Navy Heavy Lift missions ? The Marine Heavy lift ( analogue to the CH-47 for the Army and Air Force CSAR ) is fulfilled with the CH-53 , and has been for over 40 years . The CH-53 can fold its tail to fit on a ship . You ca n't fold a Chinook . The Navy VOD ( heavy lift ) was handled by CH-53 's for 40 years . <URL> ( Flexible , that 's helicopters ! ) Smart Requirement Writing led to smart choices " The Military " would have made a significant mistake " to just make one type " since back in the 60s and 70s , making mission specific aircraft was the way to go . Quite frankly , it makes for cheaper aircraft to build it for one core mission . ( See the A-10 as a fine example of that ) . Note : An early failure in " one size fits all " was the F-111 . A current " one size fits all " example of cost going through the roof is F-35 . At the time the CH-46 and CH-47 were procured , the military was smart : apply the KISS principle to get aircraft that fit mission requirements . The Army and Navy mission requirements were not identical . ( So how do I know all that ? 25 years Navy pilot ( helicopters , ASW warfare specialty , did other stuff like Vertrep ... ) , significant experience in multi-service operations , and a few years having to work in an acquisition job . )
The key piece of knowledge to understand a FBW system is that you need to differentiate between signalling and actuation . signalling is what tells the control surface to move and to what position . In old airplanes , this was by steel wires . In FBW airplanes it 's by copper wires carrying an electrical voltage . actuation is what actually moves the controls surfaces to the commanded position , the muscles . Traditionally this is hydraulics , but you can also find electric actuators these days . For the Airbus , Normal , Alternate &amp; Direct all use electrical signalling ( whether produced by computers or not ) . But what to do if there 's no electrics ? That 's Mechanical backup , where you have steel-wire signalling of specific surfaces .
The paperwork he was looking at is the dispatch release . This paperwork will have Crew names Fuel information Filed route of flight Alternates as needed Current weather Forecast weather at destination and alternates NOTAMS for departure , destination , alternates , navaids and anything along the route of flight . Deferred MEL items There are also probably a few things I 'm forgetting at the moment . When the captain gets the release the first thing to do is make sure it is for you -- correct crew names and airplane . You 'll check the route of flight and make sure it will work ( weather ) and evaluate the ordered fuel . You 'll review the destination weather , see if an alternate is needed and make sure a suitable one was filed . You 'll also check departure weather and make sure a takeoff alternate is specified if needed . If the paperwork is n't right , you call your dispatcher , otherwise you sign it and take it down to the airplane . The one-page item the captain got may have been a pre-departure clearance . These are generally available via ACARS but can be printed if needed at a terminal . They could also be other information such as ground delay programs or ground stop information that affects the flight .
The FAA has issued an <URL> which covers what they call " non-towered airports " NON-TOWERED AIRPORTS When the control tower is closed or if there is no tower , the airport is referred to as non-towered . At a non-towered airport , you do not need controller permission before entering a runway or taxiway . Below are some best practices for operating on a non-towered airport : When you approach the runways and taxiways , STOP , LOOK both ways , and LISTEN for aircraft that are landing or taking off . Vehicle windows should be open to do this properly . Alert others when you are using a taxiway or runway by always making an announcement on the radio before you enter . Be specific with your location and intentions . Always yield the right-of-way to taxiing aircraft and give them plenty of room . If an aircraft is headed toward you on the same taxiway , move out of the aircraft 's way . Always carry a radio tuned to the airport 's Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) or UNICOM . If an aircraft is about to land on a runway that you need to cross , stop well clear of the runway . Continue to yield to the aircraft until it has landed and taxied off of the runway . Be aware that some aircraft at non-towered airports are not equipped with radios . Before you cross a runway , ensure that no potentially conflicting aircraft are taxiing , landing or taking off . Be aware of aircraft at non-towered airports that frequently make touch-and-go landings ( immediately after landing , full power is applied and the aircraft takes off again ) . If your vehicle has a rotating beacon , be sure to turn it on anytime you are on the airport surface . Turn on headlights as well , being careful not to blind any pilots in the area .
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
Since the 1960 's and 1970 's when political hijackings were a problem , airplanes started to only carry the fuel required for the flight . This means a typical fuel load will be something on the order of : taxi fuel at the departure airport fuel to fly and land at the destination at a given altitude and forecast winds if an alternate is needed : fuel to fly to the alternate airport 45 minutes of reserve fuel perhaps a bit extra for contingency and to keep captains happy ( e.g. 5-15 minutes worth of fuel ) . For a normal flight this means you 'll land with around 45-60 minutes of fuel on board , sometimes less . You 'll fill up for the next leg at this airport while you deplane and enplane passengers . Fuel at the hub airports is sometimes a bit cheaper due to the fuel contracts the airline can secure when they order massive amounts of fuel every day . Fuel at outstations that do n't see a huge volume of fuel may be quite a bit more expensive . In this case , and if your weights allow , the airline may elect to load extra fuel that is n't needed . The purpose of this is so you do not need to buy as much fuel at higher prices at the outstation . I only saw this happen operationally when we were going to be very light and the outstation fuel was very expensive . Usually our loads were high enough that we were struggling to get all 50 passengers , bags , and especially jumpseaters on board with the required fuel load . In that case it would not be economical to take more fuel because we 'd have to take fewer passengers .
Apparently yes . It has been mentioned in a number of places . <URL> is pretty simple : Step 1 : Approach locked lavatory Step 2 : Lift " LAVATORY " sign Step 3 : Slide the knob into the unlocked position Thats all to it , though they may vary with the aircraft . As @RalphJ points out in the comments , it should go without saying that unless you are cabin crew , you should not be doing this .
Baggage , yes , landing gear , no . The fuselage of an airliner is typically " capped " by two bulkheads , the forward and aft pressure bulkheads . These are roughly spherical sections that seal the central " cylinder " of the aircraft 's fuselage . Here 's a 787 's forward bulkhead : <URL> ... and a 767 's aft pressure bulkhead : <URL> Practically all the space in the fuselage itself between these two bulkheads is pressurized during high-altitude flight . This includes the baggage compartment . Gear assemblies , however , are typically not pressurized . For some jets like the 737 , this is fairly obvious : <URL> Other designs with full doors for the gear assemblies are n't as obvious , but in general it 's neither feasible nor desirable to pressurize the landing gear housings when airborne .
end question
start question
Are transponders required for hot-air balloons in the US when operating within a Mode C Veil ?
I 've gotten this question enough times to look up the regulations and answer my own question :) <URL> lays it out quite nicely . Particularly section B ( 3 ) : ( 3 ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( b ) ( 2 ) of this section , any aircraft which was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system or which has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed , balloon or glider may conduct operations in the airspace within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D , section 1 of this part provided such operations are conducted - ( i ) Outside any Class A , Class B , or Class C airspace area ; and ( ii ) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport or 10,000 feet MSL , whichever is lower ; and Where I see the balloons is definitely outside of the Class B airspace and below 10,000 feet MSL , so the answer is , no , they do n't need a transponder .
Where can the requirements for US aircraft registration be found ? The registration procedure is outlined in <URL> . See also the <URL> . 3 . The owner of an aircraft must apply to the Aircraft Registration Branch , P.O. Box 25504 , Oklahoma City , Oklahoma 73125-0504 , to obtain a certificate of registration . The applicant must submit an Aircraft Registration Application , AC Form 8050-1 , accompanied by evidence of ownership and a $ 5 registration fee . Requirements for registration of aircraft are contained in the <URL> ( For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 . ) Basically , the registrant ( whether an individual or a corporation , trustee , etc. , all of which are defined in Part 47 ) must be able to prove legal ownership of the airplane . What is the penalty for flying an aircraft without a valid registration ? The violator would be subject to any of the <URL> : administrative action ( a " Warning Notice " or " Letter of Correction " which goes on your record ) , reexamination ( " 709 ride " ) , certification action ( suspension or revocation ) , or civil/criminal penalties . The exact penalty would likely depend on the circumstances : whether the violation was intentional and the degree of the pilot 's negligence under the FARs . What should someone do if they believe an aircraft to be operating without valid registration , and how could they determine this ? The <URL> reporting FAR violations by calling the FAA 's toll-free telephone number , 1-866-TELL-FAA .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
Given the hours required for the ATP , the chance of doing that rating alone in under a year seems pretty remote . Getting the private and commercial certificates done inside of a year is entirely possible , although not cheap . The writtens for the ATP are no big deal , but the hours simply will take a lot of time , as well as the right employment opportunity , to get . The number of FO 's at smaller ( regional ) airlines who have been flying for several years but who do n't yet have their ATP attests to the time required . You can ( and generally have to ) pay for the flight time to get your Commercial , but paying for all the flight time required for an ATP is simply beyond those of whose last name is n't Gates , Bezos , Trump , or etc. .
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
This depends : Under part 91 , you just have to remain clear of clouds and have a minimum of a 1,000 ft. ceiling and 3 SM visibility . Commercial operations ( 121 and 135 ) are further restricted by their Operations Specifications and have to maintain VFR weather minimums appropriate for the airspace that they are in ( among other things , see below ) . Here is an excerpt from the AIM ( there is more details there for different operations , with the differences between controlled and uncontrolled fields , etc. ) <URL> a . A visual approach is conducted on an IFR flight plan and authorizes a pilot to proceed visually and clear of clouds to the airport . The pilot must have either the airport or the preceding identified aircraft in sight . This approach must be authorized and controlled by the appropriate air traffic control facility . Reported weather at the airport must have a ceiling at or above 1,000 feet and visibility 3 miles or greater . ATC may authorize this type approach when it will be operationally beneficial . Visual approaches are an IFR procedure conducted under IFR in visual meteorological conditions . Cloud clearance requirements of 14 CFR Section 91.155 are not applicable , unless required by operation specification . The Part 135 Ops Spec for this contains the following requirements for a visual approach : b. Terminal arrival IFR - Visual approach or a Charted Visual Flight Procedure ( CVFP ) . The flightcrew may accept a visual approach or a CVFP provided all the following conditions exist . The flightcrew may not accept a visual approach or a CVFP unless the limitations and provisions of subparagraph f. of this operations specification are met . ( 1 ) The flight is operated and remains in Class B , C , or D airspace , within 35 miles of the destination airport in Class E airspace , or the airspace beneath the designated transition area . ( 2 ) The flight is under the control of an Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) facility . ( 3 ) The flightcrew must maintain the basic cloud clearance as specified in Section 91.155 . ( 4 ) For a visual approach without a CVFP - The flightcrew must be able to establish and maintain visual contact with the airport or maintain visual contact with the traffic to be followed as directed by ATC . In addition , the following provisions and weather conditions at the airport during the approach must be met : ( a ) Reported visibility must be as specified in Section 91.155 , but not lower than a visibility of three miles and reported ceiling must be 1,000 feet or greater , or ( b ) When in the terminal area with the reported visibility not lower than three miles and ceiling not reported , the flightcrew may continue to a landing if the runway of intended landing is in sight and the flightcrew can maintain visual contact with the runway throughout the approach and landing , and ( c ) Ceiling and cloud clearance must be as such to allow the flightcrew to maintain the minimum altitudes prescribed in Section 91.129 , 91.130 , or 91.131 , as applicable for the airspace class in which the flight is operated . ( 5 ) For a CVFP - The flightcrew must be able to establish and maintain visual contact with the airport or the charted visual landmark ( s ) for the CVFP throughout the approach and landing . In addition , the weather conditions at the airport at the time of the approach must be reported to be at or above the weather minima established for the CVFP , but never lower than the VFR landing weather minima stated in Section 135.205 in uncontrolled airspace . ... f. Special Limitations and Provisions for Visual Flight Rules . All VFR operations authorized by this operations specification shall be conducted in accordance with the following limitations and provisions . ( 1 ) The certificate holder must identify obstacles and use airport obstacle data which ensures that the performance requirements of Part 135 are met . ( 2 ) The weather conditions must allow the flightcrew sufficient visibility to identify and avoid obstacles and safely maneuver using external visual references and to maintain minimum altitudes .
She kept the Squadron Leader updated as much as she needed to , but she preferred to keep comms chatter to a minimum when she was ... Military-related terms : ... <URL> ... <URL> ... on a <URL> ... on <URL> [ British English , specifically used for search and rescue ] ... <URL> [ British and American English , respectively ] General terms : ... in the air ... airborne ... at the controls ... flying ... in flight ... on a mission ... doing ( her ) rounds ... aloft There might be other , more technical terms in use in the military for specific operations or missions but I have no experience there .
The competing companies ( ones that elected to compete anyway , more were invited ) were Lockheed with two submitted designs , Boeing with one design , Chase Aircraft with three designs , Douglas with three designs and Airlifts Inc with one design . As far as I can tell , these were just designs and Lockheed won the contest based entirely on paper . The YC-130 was ordered and after performance was verified , it went into production in 1954 . It does n't look like there is any public information on the competing designs since they did n't leave the drawing board . It is unlikely that any of them are " clean sheet " designs . The Boeing submission was probably ( and this is a personal guess ) based on the <URL> . The C-130 itself looks to be an up-scaled version of the <URL> with design elements from the <URL> ( which was developed into the C-123 ) . I 'm not sure what you mean by " justifications for the Lockheed design " . Given that it is the United States military 's most successful aircraft design ever , with 60 years of continuous service , I 'm sure every design was driven by a contract or performance requirement . <URL> that gives some insight into the project . Most of this information was taken from the <URL> .
If you 're <URL> and simply have rain falling , the procedure does n't change , and it is n't a big deal ( talking fixed wing refueling with a boom here ; other communities ' procedures/capabilities may be different ) . The receiver 's windshield will have some amount of rain hitting it , but if it is n't particularly heavy rain then he should still be able to do the AR . If the visibility is really bad because of the rain , or if you 're getting into <URL> , then that 's the situation you have , irrespective of rain falling or not , and obviously you 'd rather have better conditions for doing the refueling . Going IMC momentarily while you 're hooked up may not be a big deal , as you can still see the tanker , but if you lose sight then the first priority is to get positive separation between the two aircraft .
There is no term ( that I am aware of ) referring to only the portion of the takeoff while the tail is off the ground . In general , the attitude where just the two main wheels are touching the ground is called " two-point . " Likewise , with the tail wheel also on the ground , it is called " three-point . " Specifically , a two-point landing is sometimes called a " wheel landing " . <URL>
As @fooot mentions in the comments it means <URL> , it is not a reference between the difference of <URL> and <URL> as many watch brands commonly reference now . This is a regulation that is intended to clarify the difference between a second hand that references the main dial and one that is on a sub dial . Historically planes may have <URL> where the large second hand is for the chronometer and not the elapsed time clock . <URL> ( <URL> ) You can find what looks like one of the <URL> . It references FAR 91.33 ( which seems to no longer be in place ) <URL> . I can not find any FAA legal interpretation that further defines " sweeping seconds " . On a bit of a side note , <URL> .
As Andy pointed out , this question is very broad ( even if we 're only talking about India ) . Your starting point should be <URL> because they can tell you definitively what would be involved in getting a " homebuilt " aircraft approved to fly under Indian law . <URL> and is broadly similar to the FAA 's " Experimental : Amateur-Built " certification requirements : The aircraft needs to be constructed in accordance with the DGCA 's acceptable methods , techniques , and practices . Basically this means you ca n't use chewing gum as a structural fastener : The aircraft needs to be safe to fly . The aircraft will be inspected by a DGCA representative prior to being allowed to fly . Note that the DGCA inspection is mainly looking for " obviously unsafe " conditions - they do n't do a teardown inspection so if you used chewing gum as a structural fastener and subsequently that area is covered up by a wing skin the inspector wo n't know , but you will when the wing falls off on your test flight . You will need the DGCA to issue you a Certificate of Airworthiness before you can fly the aircraft around - that certificate is contingent on completing required test flights at the airport where the aircraft is based/built . You will need an appropriate pilot 's license ( and medical certificate if applicable ) in order to fly the aircraft ( this is also required to conduct the Certificate of Airworthiness test flights mentioned previously ) .
The short answer is no but it really depends on what kind of " pilot " is on board . " Is there a pilot on board " If the pilot in question is a Private Pilot as per FAA licensing ( although its often similar elsewhere in the world ) . They would be legally prevented from receiving compensation for flight time as per the FAR 's . <URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft ... If the pilot in question was a commercial rated pilot they could in theory receive compensation for the flight time but as far as I know there is no aviation law like the maritime law . Furthermore maritime law generally allows you a portion or all of the recovered cargo value ( think treasure salvage ) in the case of a hull loss . Here in the US if an aircraft were to go down be it over land or water it becomes an accident scene which the NTSB would have jurisdiction over and is generally in charge of finding and salvaging for their investigation . If you were to recover a piece of an aircraft that was part of an ongoing investigation you may be required to turn it over to the authorities . The closest scenario that I know of like this , <URL> . However he was not pilot in command and was only providing support . All things considered you will probably get a book deal out of the whole thing if it were to happen ...
The good balloonist will try to limit the vertical speed to 2 - 3 m/s ( 400-600 ft/minute ) to make it easier for the passengers to accommodate to the pressure change and avoid <URL> . This is the main factor ; technically the balloon is capable of higher vertical speeds . Much depends on the temperature profile of the atmosphere over altitude . The gas in the balloon will <URL> , and the density difference to the surrounding air will change if the surrounding air does n't cool at the same rate . For dry air , this cooling rate is 6.5 ° C per 1000m . If the atmosphere has a higher cooling rate , the balloon will accelerate , if the rate is lower , climb speed will bleed off the higher the balloon climbs . For that reason , you will rarely see balloons flying at the same time as gliders . Gliders need thermals , which are best in air with a high cooling rate , whereas thermals will make the job of limiting vertical speeds in a balloon much harder . Blimps need to keep their hull pressurized , and here the descent rate is limited by the ability to pump air into the <URL> .
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
end question
start question
Could someone use an axe to break through a locked cockpit door ?
Axes are not carried in the cabin and the door is designed to resist attack using tools available in the cabin Fire/crash axe/crowbar . Fire axes were provided to obtain emergency access to areas and parts of the airplane which are not easily accessible ( e.g. behind sidewall , electrical or ceiling panels ) . The handle is insulated to protect against electric shock . In the past , fire axes might be found in the flight deck and in the passenger cabin but on most carriers , in compliance with anti-terrorism regulations and procedures , axes are no longer carried and have been replaced by insulated crowbars in the passenger/cargo compartment . From <URL>
Flying Magazine <URL> back in 2013 and four years ago there were already bluetooth-capable headsets in the market from Bose , David Clark , Sennheiser and Lightspeed . You might want to start there ...
Atmospheric conditions do not cause aircraft to break up in flight . Improper aircraft handling in response to bad weather can cause an aircraft to be overstressed and then breakup . So can improper handling due to disorientation .
The main thing to do is to realize why you 're creating the corporation . We created a 501 ( c ) 7 ( in the US ) corporation which is a tax-exempt organization and falls under " social club . " We did this to limit our personal liability . However , if you are creating the corporation to limit personal liability , you have to make sure to operate like a corporation - call each other " co-owners " instead of " partners " ( there are legal ramifications to this , not just semantics ) . People around the airport should know it 's a co-owned plane by a corporation , not that it 's " your plane . " Basically if you want the liability protection of a corporation , you must act like one . Great book to read regarding the legal side of things is " <URL> " by J. Scott Hamilton Depending on how you set it up ( we did a 501 ( c ) 7 tax exempt , and yes , you still have to file a tax return ) , how you use the airplane matters too . For example , we ca n't earn money using the airplane ( conducting flight instruction to non-co-owners , for example ) , due to the 501 ( c ) 7 status . Under other corporate structures you can . Finally , I guess to actually answer your questions : There are some pitfalls , but I think they can be avoided . Most group ownership things fail because of lack of communication and documentation , forming a corporation kind of forces you to spell out things explicitly and then all involved have no excuse for not knowing " the rules . " ( You have to write up bylaws and have at least one annual meeting , which forces the communication aspect ! )
Can it happen : Yes Does it happen : Generally no As a matter of the pure physics propeller tips can go supersonic and some times do . There is at least one case of this being done <URL> on the <URL> which was built to be one of the fastest propeller planes . <URL> The main issue it faced was the noise generated by its supersonic prop . It is considered one of the loudest aircraft ever made as its prop was supersonic even at idle speeds . Due to the shock waves generated by breaking the sound barrier great care is often taken to ensure that propellers do n't go supersonic .
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
Could winds of up to 150 km/h impact the structural loads on the B777-200LR ? Not at all . The dynamic pressures on the plane depend on the plane 's velocity with respect to the air , not the ground speed . Flying in 150 km/h tailwind is the same as flying with no wind , the plane 's indicated and true airspeeds wo n't be affected . <URL> is the plane 's velocity inside the fast moving wind tube . Since the jet stream itself is moving , it just moves the plane with it . With the added bonus of extra ground speed , or if you 're the pilot , a dreaded return flight -- unless you can avoid the now headwind , usually they are avoided for the Pacific and Atlantic routes , not as often for elsewhere . Here 's a 1200 km/h subsonic flight : <URL>
No , no restrictions on using an afterburner . There are a few <URL> on the civil registration that must use the afterburner to take off . However , most countries forbid supersonic flight by non military operated aircraft in their airspace . The only time Concorde went supersonic was over the ocean .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
For Australia , you are extremely confined as to what you can do with a PPL to earn money . Skywriting <URL> , will probably mean you lose your license here . What you can do according to <URL> ( Civil Aviation Regulation ) is essentially ; Crop Dusting on a person 's property using their aircraft ( only on their property ) ( You would also require an Agricultural Rating for this ) Transporting the owner of the aircraft Now , here 's where you can work within the rules . According to the definition of the CAR , you can logically fly charter flights as private if you are transporting the owner of the aircraft . What if the aircraft is owned by a company ? Logically , anyone who works for that company is considered an owner , or goods reasonable similar to property of the owner . Now , take everything I 've said here , take with a grain of salt as I am not a CASA lawyer ( Thank god ) , and as a disclaimer , nothing that I have said here can be taken as an exact interpretation of the law or anything reasonably similar . But , have a read of that CAR , and you will possibly find avenues to follow , or just bite the bullet , go to a VET Fee Help approved school and do your CPL ?
You can not " switch off " a stage of a turbine engine . As seen <URL> jet engines are a single block mechanically locked together : all the stages ( compressor AND turbine ) connected to the same shaft . If the shaft turns , all connected stages turn with it . You can have designs with multiple shafts , but this increases the complexity ( design and maintenance ) heavily . Even if we assume for a moment that you could have 1 shaft per stage , stopping one of these would be generally a bad idea . For acoustic reasons the number of blades on the stationary part of the stage and those on the rotary part must be prime to each other ( example : 37 blades on the stationary side and 39 on the rotary one ) ; this means that when the rotary part stops you can not align all the blades with the stationary ones , creating drag and losses within the engine , thus reducing the efficiency . How would efficiency of a Jet Engine change , if we assume for a second that its a possibility , to stop a few stages ( turn them into free instead of locked ) ? You would still decrease the efficiency : compressor stages are the ones actually <URL> ( you would then produce less thrust * ) and the turbine stages are the ones extracting energy from the exahust . * : you could even risk having the flame going upstream if you stop too many compressor stages and not having enough pressure at the combustion chamber inlet .
No , the container near the door is the same as the others . The containers <URL> , which leaves enough space above for things like the door hydraulics . The containers on the upper cargo area below are all 88 " x 125 " , which corresponds to a standard <URL> . <URL> <URL>
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
The total mass of a light helicopter is about 1000 kg ( depending on type and actual payload , of course ) . The 200 pound guy adds about 10 % to the total mass ( and weight ) . The skids are relatively close to the centre of gravity ( COG ) . Immediate impact Kinetic energy In terms of mechanics , the jumping man will have a mostly <URL> with the helicopter , and he will transfer both , kinetic energy and impulse accordingly . One may simply choose the helicopter as reference coordinate system to calculate the resulting change of ( vertical ) speed for the helicopter : $ $ \ Delta v _ \ rm { H } = \ frac { m _ \ rm { G } \ Delta v _ \ rm { G } } { m _ \ rm { H } + m _ \ rm { G } } = \ frac { 1 } { 11 } \ Delta v _ \ rm { G } \ \ \ \ \ \ ( m _ \ rm { H } = 1000 \ rm { \ , kg } , \ m _ \ rm { G } = 100 \ rm { \ , kg } ) $ $ In the movie , the jumping man will just make it . The relative speed will be close to zero , and divided by 11 will be even closer to zero . If he had a significant speed relative to the skid , he would not be able to hold himself . The transfer of kinetic energy is negligible for the stability of the helicopter . Added weight The total weight of the aircraft increases by 10 % . This sudden change creates a jolt which is clearly perceptible inside the helicopter , also suddenly changing the vertical acceleration . The ( vertical ) speed is the mathematical integral of the ( vertical ) acceleration . The speed will steadily change . The same holds true for the ( vertical ) position of the aircraft , which is the mathematical integral of the ( vertical ) speed . In other words , the inertia of the bigger mass will prevent sudden change of vertical speed . For the pilot , this 10 % disturbance will be very obvious , and he needs to counteract . ( Note that there was a related question recently : <URL> ) Imbalance The imbalance caused by the guy hanging somewhere else than under the COG creates a torque . This torque creates an angular acceleration . This angular acceleration integrates to angular speed , which integrates to roll and pitch respectively . While the angular acceleration starts suddenly , the angular speed can only change steadily . The helicopter will not loose its attitude in a fraction of a second , like it happens in Hollywood movies . Countermeasure The pilot will use the Collective control to counter the added weight , and the Cyclic control to counter roll and pitch . Provided that the pilot reacts timely enough , it should be possible to stabilize the helicopter . 100 kg additional mass should not prevent the helicopter from climbing , unless it was already overloaded and without safety margins before the 200 pound guy arrived . More critical is the torque created by the offset load and the resulting COG shift . I am not aware of the roll and pitch performance of small helicopters , but I believe that they are able to fly with somebody standing or hanging on a skid . Asymmetric load of this magnitude will likely impact stability and manoeuvrability , but will not necessarily cause a crash . If the fearless 200 pound guy instead would jump and hold to the tail skid , the additional weight would be much further from the COG , and the outcome probably be disastrous . Safety This does not mean that it is safe to continue the flight with the 200 pound guy hanging anywhere on one skid . Pilots always need to verify if the amount and distribution of the load is within the performance limits of their aircraft . See <URL> for some explanation and example ( note Figures 2-5 , 2-6 , and 2-7 ) . Depending on the helicopter performance and the load distribution before the guy jumps , the new distribution may be within the specified safe longitudinal and lateral COG envelopes , or not . <URL>
The " sterile cockpit rule " is an informal name for <URL> and <URL> . It says that no non-essential duties may be done during a critical phase of flight which is defined as " all ground operations involving taxi , takeoff and landing , and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet , except cruise flight " . In your example , once they level off at cruise , even if it is below 10,000 feet , it no longer applies . While this does n't apply to Part 91 operations like you describe , it is a very good idea to follow the rule anyway to prevent distractions and increase the level of safety . As far as the GPS , I would recommend fiddling with it on the ground before you takeoff and be familiar with its operation before you need to use it . Being heads down for an extended period of time is never a good idea ( unless you have a safety pilot along to keep an eye on things and look for traffic ) ! The full text of the regulation is : § 121.542 Flight crewmember duties . ( a ) No certificate holder shall require , nor may any flight crewmember perform , any duties during a critical phase of flight except those duties required for the safe operation of the aircraft . Duties such as company required calls made for such nonsafety related purposes as ordering galley supplies and confirming passenger connections , announcements made to passengers promoting the air carrier or pointing out sights of interest , and filling out company payroll and related records are not required for the safe operation of the aircraft . ( b ) No flight crewmember may engage in , nor may any pilot in command permit , any activity during a critical phase of flight which could distract any flight crewmember from the performance of his or her duties or which could interfere in any way with the proper conduct of those duties . Activities such as eating meals , engaging in nonessential conversations within the cockpit and nonessential communications between the cabin and cockpit crews , and reading publications not related to the proper conduct of the flight are not required for the safe operation of the aircraft . ( c ) For the purposes of this section , critical phases of flight includes all ground operations involving taxi , takeoff and landing , and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet , except cruise flight . Note : Taxi is defined as " movement of an airplane under its own power on the surface of an airport . " NASA has a great article called <URL> which goes into a lot more information , and includes some interesting statistics from the ASRS database about accidents/incidents that were in some way caused by not following this regulation : 48 % were altitude deviations 14 % were course deviations 14 % were runway transgressions 14 % were general distractions with no specific adverse consequences 8 % involved takeoffs or landings without clearance 2 % involved near mid-air collisions due to inattention and distractions . Abiding by the sterile cockpit rule can help you to avoid situations like that ! The article also gives some examples from the database and talks about a couple of crashes that were attributed to lack of compliance .
I do n't agree with the strict enforcement of this rule by the DGCA ( but I 'm not an airline pilot so I think my opinion does n't really count on this matter ) . But there is logic behind the ban - many safety-critical actions are completed before the plane has left the gate . Such actions include calculating takeoff speeds , briefing the departure procedures , and completing various checklists . Having people in the cockpit could prove to be a big distraction when trying to complete these tasks , particularly when the time is limited anyway such as on a short turnaround . Making a mistake before leaving the gate can definitely end in disaster . Take <URL> in 2009 . The crew entered an incorrect takeoff weight into the system . As a result there was n't enough thrust to rotate and the A340 barely cleared the airport fence .
Yes , you could create an altimeter using a laser . And they exist ; See <URL> as one example . Laser altimeters , however , have a significant disadvantage over radar altimeters : They can be obscured by weather , like clouds and rain .
When I sail we use simple air horns to signal the local drawbridges . Something like <URL> is usually kept on the boat . I see no reason not to keep one in your float plane if you anticipate need to hail a draw bridge or just for general marine hailing . If memory serves , it 's one long blast ( 4-6 seconds ) followed by a quick one . Similarly you could opt to carry a hand held <URL> in your plane . Now all of that is assuming you knew you were going to encounter a bridge . If you did not plan for it then you have a few options . If memory serves some ( if not all ) of the bridges have land lines and if you have a cell phone you may be able to call them ( provided you can find the number ) . If you are flying a float plane you may ( should ? ) have a PFD on board . Many PFDs have whistles attached . This , in theory should suffice to hail the bridge . The bridge attendant may see you floating there and open the bridge as well . You can always try , um , yelling at the guy ... Now what if the bridge is broken , there is a long train stuck on it and the attendant stepped out for a cigar break and has no intention of returning for a while ? You are in the end of the day in a float plane and you have a unique ability that most ships do n't have , you can go over the bridge ...
It appears as though the locking handle for the door has some sort of switch in it to allow for full extension of the door only if the locking handle is pulled full forward and , for whatever reason , the door handle wo n't move into this fully extended detent on its own . While the workaround is jury rigged at best , it does n't seem to pose a flight safety issue unless the door ca n't be locked when fully closed . It 's just another video from an ignoramus in the terminal with a cellphone camera .
end question
start question
Does the Cessna POH state the fuel consumption in Imperial or US Gallons ?
The plane was certified with US Gallons . Use those for fuel consumption . The conversion tables are there in case your FBO 's fuel pump is calibrated in L or Imp Gal .
A diverse departure is a default departure procedure , named " omnidirectional " by ICAO . To answer your question : It is normally not published . The only thing that is required on aeronautical publications is a wording preventing or limiting the use of this procedure . BUCKLEY AFB ( KBKF ) , AURORA , CO TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES 11013 Diverse departure not authorized . Use published departure procedures for obstacle avoidance . Sometimes there is a reminder that it can be used : CANNON AFB ( KCVS ) , CLOVIS , NM TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES ORIG 15064 Diverse departure authorized all runways . This default procedure is valid only when : Not explicitly prohibited , There is at least one instrument approach for the airport No obstacle departure procedure ( ODP ) and No standard departure ( SID ) has been published for the airport . A diverse departure is conducted this way : Cross the runway end at 35 ft , maintain heading and a 200 ft/NM gradient until 400 ft above the runway end . The 200 ft/NM gradient is TERPS ' minimum climb gradient , and corresponds to ICAO 's 3.3 % for the minimum procedure design gradient . Continue or turn in any direction while maintaining a minimum rate of climb of 200 ft/NM . Maintain this rate of climb until reaching a 1,000 ft obstacle clearance or a 2,000 ft obstacle clearance in mountainous areas . <URL> <URL> The 40:1 ratio ( 152 ft/NM ) delimits a surface from the runway end , named the obstacle clearance surface ( OCS ) . The diverse departure ensures being above the OCS until enroute . Whenever the conditions exist for a diverse departure , it is implicit ATC authorities have assessed the absence of obstacle above the OCS . This assessment is named the diverse departure assessment . Given the 40:1 slope and obstacle clearances , the area assessed may have a radius from 25 to 46 NM .
The jury ( i.e. FAA ) is still out on this question as of early June 2014 . FAA has indicated it will not give a gasoline " fuel allowance " to be credited against weight for batteries . Given that fuel weighs 6 lbs . per gallon , or 30 lbs . for the maximum legal gas an ultralight can carry , it would be a somewhat negligible , but certainly welcome , allowance for would-be electric manufacturers . One company , Chip Erwin of AeroMarine , has imported a barebones ultralight motorglider based on the Goat towed ultralight glider . It 's called the <URL> , and carries batteries enough for 30-40 mins . of flight , without exceeding the 254-lb . weight limit of the part 103 category . In time the FAA may well decide to grant the allowance . It 's still not going to amount to much more time , maybe 10 minutes given current battery energy density , which is a fraction of the energy density of gasoline , but research into electric storage is at a feverish pace worldwide . Look for sport , then commercial electric aircraft , within the next 5 to 10 years . Several electric single and two-seat electrics are already flying . The Airbus ducted fan , recently ballyhooed as the first electric aircraft , which it certainly is n't , is a promising look at one way commercial electric applications might come to market .
It depends on the type of situation . If the aircraft is unable to land for some reason , we 'll want to know the remaining fuel to get an idea of how long the aircraft can realistically stay airborne . For an aircraft coming in for an emergency landing - as you have already guessed - the reason we ask for remaining fuel is because the fire and rescue personel needs this information . We will also ask such an aircraft if they have any dangerous goods onboard , since we need to pass this info on to the fire crew as well . During an emergency , we have a checklist to follow that reminds us which information we need to obtain , and who needs to know what is going on . For a tower position , it may look something like this : <URL> As you can see , fuel and dangerous goods are grouped together , indicating that they are essentially the same thing - something that may cause fire , explode or otherwise cause danger during evacuation of the aircraft .
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
The engine does n't care how heavy the airplane is ( or how well it is flying ) , but you might . As long as you are cruising around at a particular altitude and power setting , then the engine is going to consume fuel at the same rate . A heavier airplane will require increased lift , which will induce greater drag , and will have a lower forward airspeed as a result of that same power ( assuming it is not so heavy that it prevents you from maintaining altitude ) . If on the other hand you have a particular airspeed you want to maintain , then the power needed for that speed will depend on weight . Lower weight , less power necessary , less fuel flow required to supply the power .
The vast majority of civilian <URL> and powerplants flying worldwide are manufactured in the USA or Canada using almost exclusively Standard hardware , usually conforming to aircraft Mil Spec ( MS ) or AN specifications . From that perspective , the answer to your question is that any given aircraft will most likely use all Standard hardware . This is even true for some European built aircraft such as the <URL> manufactured in France , or the Italian <URL> . These aircraft use standard hardware , such as AN bolts and washers . As <URL> described , there certainly are aircraft with a combination of hardware types . There are also a significant minority of aircraft that use exclusively metric hardware . In any event , maintenance personnel will often have documentation detailing the exact type of hardware used on the airframe and engines . Older aircraft may not have this documentation , for example for a Beech Staggerwing , but the vast majority of such aircraft will use Standard hardware . Most aircraft mechanics do not have any metric tools in their aviation toolboxes . There will be an exception , obviously , for those that do work on the minority of aircraft with metric hardware . Speaking from my experience of having worked at remote airports , on vintage aircraft , most toolboxes reflect the use of Standard hardware . The metric box is typically reserved for use on automotive projects . That does not mean there are no exceptions ; there are .
First , one small clarification : ATC does n't offer any services to an aircraft on a VFR flight plan unless you call and request them . <URL> from AOPA has some useful comments : Controllers do n't know anything about your VFR flight plan VFR flight plans are for search and rescue purposes only Even if you call ATC and request flight following , they only enter the destination into their system , not your route ( I assume that 's because your route could be ' follow that river and then that interstate ' ) The key point is that VFR flight plans are recorded and managed by FSS , not ATC . So , does FSS accept whatever they 're given ? I could n't find a direct answer to that question , but the FAA 's <URL> for receiving and handling VFR flight plans ( see Chapter 6 ) do n't include any steps to " validate " the plan ( whatever that would mean anyway ) . Although there 's a lot of detailed , tedious information there so I may have missed something :-) In fact , <URL> implies that no one even looks at the route unless it 's as part of the SAR process : ETA plus one hour Within a half-hour of becoming overdue or at ETA plus one hour , the search is widened by sending an INREQ ( information request ) to flight service facilities along the route ( which is why the route of flight is specified on the flight plan ) . If [ the pilot ] had been on an IFR flight plan , the INREQ would have gone out at ETA plus 30 minutes . The bottom line seems to be that no one really cares about your VFR flight plan unless it 's actually needed to find you . So even if you can enter a nonsense plan , it would n't be a very good idea .
Well , pretty much anything can be given a US airworthiness certificate provided it 's not literally falling to pieces . You could certificate such an aircraft as a <URL> -- Specifically one of : Experimental -- Research and Development To conduct aircraft operations as a matter of research or to determine if an idea warrants further development . Typical uses for this certificate include new equipment installations , operating techniques , or new uses for aircraft . or Experimental -- Showing compliance with regulations To show compliance to the airworthiness regulations when an applicant has revised the type certificate design data or has applied for a supplemental type certificate or field approval . If your goal is to ultimately get this aircraft a <URL> you would probably want the latter , to allow you to conduct test/certification flights in the modified aircraft . To then get a standard airworthiness certificate things are a bit more murky . You could get a US STC based on the European STC &amp; using this aircraft as the example for conformity inspections and flight testing , but that would require going through <URL> . The other option would be the 337 process , in which case you are also going to need an A&amp;P mechanic ( preferably one with Inspection Authorization ) and the cooperation of your local FSDO to approve the modification as a " major alteration " ( <URL> - Instructions <URL> ) . As you alluded to in your question , something like installing a Rotax engine in a Cessna 150 is a " Major Modification " that has no " FAA Approved Data " ( STC procedure/drawings/etc . ) to include with the 337 , so you would need to submit " Acceptable Data " for your modification ( the European STC is a good starting point ) and work with the FAA to obtain approval for the modification . This is something you would want to talk to the FAA about before purchasing an aircraft with such a modification ( there 's a good chance they may not approve the modification , which would leave you with an unairworthy aircraft , or one restricted to the Experimental category ) .
Nothing in the regulations seems to preclude it - but there are <URL> per the FAA : An individual who is a United States citizen , A partnership each of whose partners is an individual who is a U.S. citizen , A corporation or association : organized under the laws of the U.S. or a State , the District of Columbia , or a U.S. territory or possession , of which the president and at least two-thirds of the board of directors and other managing officers are U.S citizens , and in which at least 75 % of the voting interest is owned or controlled by persons that are U.S. citizens , An individual citizen of a foreign country lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S. , A U.S. governmental unit or subdivision A non-U.S. citizen corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the U.S. or one of the States as long as the aircraft is based and primarily used in the U.S. ( 60 % of all flight hours must be from flights starting and ending within the U.S. ) ( emphasis added ) So Toyota could not buy an aircraft and register it to their main company in Japan on the US registry , nor could they buy &amp; register it under a US Subsidiary and subsequently fly it off to Japan to live out the rest of its days shuttling executives around Asia . A Toyota executive with Permanent Resident status could buy themselves a nice Cirrus and register it on the US Registry though .
Modern military fuel tanks use the same basic technology to seal the tank after a puncture as WW2 aircraft did , which is the use of a laminated rubber-textile material , which tends to retain its form after being torn . The main difference between modern tank liners and WW2 liners is that the modern liners use more sophisticated materials so they can achieve the same benefit using a much thinner liner ( hence less weight ) . Bullets hitting a tank do not cause " detonation " unless they generate a spark and the fuel-air mixture in the tank is in ignition range . Also , most aircraft explosions are not detonations , they are <URL> . The liner does nothing to prevent this . The main functions of the liner are to prevent fuel from leaking out of a punctured tank and to maintain the integrity of the tank in a low-altitude mishap or crash . The main test for a liner is the " drop test " in which the liner is filled with fuel and dropped from a height of about 50 feet . The advantage of pressurizing a tank with air ( inerting ) is that it increases the critical temperature of an explosive mixture . If the critical temperature of the mixture is above the ambient temperature , then the tank will not explode spontaneously when sparked . A modern variation on this is called " nitrogen inerting " . The idea with that is to pressurize the tank with nitrogen . This makes the tank spark proof . Note that inerting technologies do not prevent a fuel tank from blowing up if an aircraft is hit with ordnance . The reason for this is that typically the way an aircraft blows up is that damage from the ordnance starts a fire . The fire then rapidly evolves fuel-laden gases into open compartments of the aircraft . As soon as these gases reach the ignition mixture , the fire deflagarates the mixture , causing an explosion . Inerting does little to prevent this . Inerting is very useful , however , because it can prevent a plane blowing up due to lightning or problems with electrical wiring or static electicity buildup .
Indeed the US and the rest of the world handle this differently . In the US , if you are cleared to a flight level or altitude , you change the altimeter setting as you are about to cross the transition level ( 18,000 @ 29.92 ) . [ When ] descending , even if cleared to an altitude at the time the cruising level is vacated , the altimeters will remain on standard pressure until just prior to the transition level . Unless cleared in a climb to FL180 , then the change is done a bit earlier . In Europe and elsewhere , the change of the altimeter setting is done as soon as you start climbing or descending to the cleared flight level or altitude . climbing and cleared to a FL - set Standard Pressure Setting ( QNE/1013 mb ) ; descending and cleared to an altitude - set QNH . Between the TA and TL no altitude/level can be assigned . If the local pressure is too low , what floats ( rises ) is the TL . The same for the US : If the altimeter setting is lower , the lowest useable FL becomes FL190 or even FL200 . This restriction ensures that a minimum of 1000 ' vertical separation is maintained between the aircraft at 17000 ' on QNH and the one at the lowest useable level on Standard Pressure Setting ( QNE ) . If the TL is FL150 as in your example , you will not be cleared to 15,000 feet . You will be cleared to FL150 . Based on the above , you will maintain 1013 ( QNE ) until cleared to an altitude . The same for the US , you wo n't be given an altitude of 18,000 , it will be FL180 whether going up or down . <URL> ( <URL> ) Source : <URL>
I knew that the debate would start :) This is probably the most contentious question in helicopter operations . it 's right up there with the " equal transit time " theory of lift generation a few years back . <URL> . Instructors , pilots , WikiPedia , training videos , books and blogs all get this wrong often . It seems to be very common in the US for people to refer to vortex ring state as " settling with power " . Tom , I know you said you already know what vortex ring state but I think that the " why are they different " explanation is better when both are contrasted together . Please excuse me for repetition . They are different . Vortex ring state ( VRS ) . VRS ring state is a purely aerodynamic condition . In normal flight , whether climbing , descending or cruising , the relative airflow striking the blades is principally from ahead . In a developed VRS , the helicopter descends into it 's own vortex which is " recirculated " as the helicopter descends faster than the vortex descends and results in the recirculated air being drawn up , then almost vertically down into the rotor . <URL> <URL> This causes a critical increase in the angle of attack and a corresponding loss of lift causing the helicopter to descend faster and faster up to rates of 6000 feet per minute . In order for the helicopter to descend into its own vortex , it must meet three conditions at the same time ( typical values for most helicopters ) : less than 30 knots airspeed ; greater than 300 feet per minute descent ; power applied to the rotor . Removing anyone of these gets you out of VRS but there 's a catch . If you try to reduce the rate of descent by increasing collective and therefore power , which would be the instinctive reaction of someone not trained to recognise and get out of the state , you increase the strength of the vortex and the recirculation and make the problem worse . The only way to stop the rate of descent in VRS is to use the ground , which you really do n't want to do at up to 6000 feet per minute and will probably spoil your plans for the weekend . However , you DO have power . You can use all of it until you hit the limits and still you wo n't stop that descent . To recover , remove power by entering auto-rotation or increase airspeed to fly out of the vortex . Auto-rotating out of VRS can take a long time and use a lot of height in the recovery so the accepted and taught technique is to fly out of it , any direction will do , which takes a second or two to recover . Settling With Power ( SWP ) SWP is not an aerodynamic effect . At it 's simplest , it occurs when you need x amount of power to stop a descent but , for a lot of variable reasons , you have less than x power available . Increasing power results either in exceeding the engine or power train limits or stalling the rotor as drag increase exponentially and exceeds the power available to drive the rotor . The slower a helicopter flies , the more power it requires : <URL> <URL> . When you get into the low speed regime , you can see that the power required rises rapidly . Imagine you are coming into a hover . You are travelling slowly at about 20 knots but have a low rate of descent , not enough to enter VRS . If you keep going forward , you will be OK . But , our imaginary pilot makes a mistake and turns into a 15 knot tailwind . The airspeed drops to about 5 knots so the lift produced drops by the square of the speed change and the power required rises rapidly . The helicopter will very quickly develop a high rate of descent . The pilot increases collective to compensate but finds that the engine can not produce enough power to maintain lift and power the tail rotor which is also working harder since you increase the torque by increasing power . It is possible to simply run out of power . If the pilot is lucky , they will be unconscious and found with the collective lever buried in their armpit . SWP nearly always happens close to the ground and once in it , there is no recovery ( insert suitably large number like 99 % of the time ) . You have no spare power to reduce the rate of descent or to increase airspeed to increase lift and fly away . SWP is normally a result of pilot error ( as above ) , mechanical problem leading to unexpected reduction in power available , wind shear causing unexpected reduction in airspeed or other environmental effects reducing lift available ( coming into a hot and high hover for example ) . Perhaps the easiest distinction to make is that you are already using all of your available power when you enter SWP . There is nothing left to give !
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
Evidently , the <URL> existed <URL> . Cessna started with a widened and stretched 206 fuselage . It was designed to replace the aging De Havilland Canada Otters , Beavers and Beech 18 aircraft in use with bush operators . Marketing surveys from the late seventies concluded that a modern , large capacity , rugged single engine aircraft for sale could compete successfully ... They completed the first flying prototype and were expecting orders mainly from the target market of bush operators . However , the CEO of FedEx saw it on the cover of <URL> and sensed opportunity . ( Whether this is true or not , FedEx was looking for a small aircraft to replace trucks on some routes , and the Caravan came along at just that time . ) Cessna made some changes such as adding a cargo pod to create the Cargomaster . The big orders from FedEx helped to drive the popularity of the Caravan . So FedEx was not the reason for designing the Caravan in the first place , but it was a big part of the success of the design and did influence some aspects of it .
You should look in the POH for your specific aircraft ( because it may have had modifications to it which would make it different from a " standard " aircraft ) and see what it says . The <URL> contains no maximum airport elevation for takeoff , and the <URL> does n't either . Therefore , you can only go by the performance charts in the POH . According to the POH that I found above , assuming that you have enough runway available and can out climb any obstacles ( big assumption , you need to make sure of this ) , you can takeoff at a pressure altitude of up to 8,000 ft. other than in cases where the airplane is very heavy and it is hot , in which case it will be restricted further . This does n't mean that the aircraft is not capable of taking off at a higher pressure/density altitude however , and if you have the need to do so then I would recommend contacting the manufacturer directly to see if they have any engineering data available for your situation ( often they do but do n't publish it ; there may or may not be a fee ) .
It is not " this causes that " - all is happening together . Let me explain : For me to understand aerodynamics , it helped to disregard all that talk of vortices and induction , but focus on the pressure field around a wing . When the theory of flight was developed , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that electric induction could be transferred to lift . Now every author still copies the explanations from a century ago , but they are totally unintuitive . Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects . Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they experience . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour , but not without spreading out ( = pressure loss ) . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . What is lift ? Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Induced drag The misconception about those " wingtip vortices " and induced drag is hard to eradicate . Most authors copy what has been written before without clearly understanding the issue . Therefore I repeat it here again : <URL> is the <URL> of the <URL> . The vortices are only a consequence of downwash , which in turn is a consequence of lift creation . At the same speed , more induced drag is indeed linked to more lift , but the causality is different : Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
As any licensed pilot knows , the FAA and the US military are the " de-facto " regulators of 99.9 % of what goes on in the air over the US ( see : <URL> ) . Still , state and local governments are not entirely powerless here . The general theory being more or less that , in cases where there is no obvious conflict with the FAA , or the US military , then local jurisdictions may still have some small level of control over certain very limited " air-spaces " ( see : <URL> ) . Suggestion : 99.9 % of the time , the FAA wins , but hey , do n't let that slow you down ! ( Still , in view of the findings of the second case I just listed above , if I were you , I might try keeping peace with my neighbors over trying to save just a few steps on the way home . )
This varies based on if you are VFR or IFR certified . Basic currency requirements for general aviation flying under part 91 which I presume is the target of this question . The comments to the answer outline the commercial implications , can be found in <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , and -- ( i ) The person acted as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; and ( ii ) The required takeoffs and landings were performed in an aircraft of the same category , class , and type ( if a type rating is required ) , and , if the aircraft to be flown is an airplane with a tailwheel , the takeoffs and landings must have been made to a full stop in an airplane with a tailwheel . ... [ read on for IFR and night currency ] However the FAA actually views using the auto-pilot as manipulating the controls . You can find <URL> . But in short , The FAA considers a pilot 's use and management of the autopilot to be the equivalent of manipulating the controls , just as one manages other flight control systems , such as trim or a yaw dampener . The autopilot system 's sophistication does not affect a pilot 's responsibility to manipulate and manage all control systems , including an autopilot , appropriately . Therefore , a pilot may log PIC flight time as the sole manipulator of the controls for the time in which he or she engages an autopilot . With that in mind you can maintain your currency using only auto-pilot and in theory if your plane and the desired airport was equipped for <URL> ( which , as far as I know , no GA planes are ) you could maintain your currency without physically manipulating the yoke aside from takeoff and climb to autopilot altitude . So no there is no legal obligation to physically touch the controls to maintain currency if your plane is capable of some kind of completely programmable flight ( I do n't think any are currently ) . There is however one notable exception to this regulation . On an IFR checkride you must fly a manual approach , <URL> ... • The applicant must accomplish at least two nonprecision approaches in simulated or actual weather conditions . At least one must be flown without the use of autopilot and without the assistance of radar vectors . The yaw damper and flight director are not considered parts of the autopilot for purposes of this Task . It claims to do everything for you within 50 feet of the ground . This is a bit misleading . First off , most , if not all GA planes lack <URL> so power management is in the hands of the pilot and is fully manual in most cases . Some more modern airplanes like the <URL> which loops prop and throttle controls to one lever minimizing but not eliminating manual control . There are <URL> and function varies heavily : some only have a single axis ( heading hold and adjust capability ) . Some have 2 axes which can hold altitude and headings and some which have the ability to follow GPS courses , fly approaches down to different minimums etc. . It should be noted that some units can be set to create situations that can stall the aircraft or otherwise put it in a dangerous flight scenario , the auto in autopilot does not mean absolute protection or full automation . If so , can it be remotely piloted ? This is actually a completely separate question if you are asking " do I need to physically be inside the aircraft " i.e. " can I maintain currency with a drone if it 's properly equipped " . I do n't think the FAA has fully fledged regulations on this yet . If by remote you mean by use of autopilot , see above .
In a typical trainer aircraft ( in this case , a C172 ) , you have an annunciator panel that includes a " Low Fuel " light : <URL> These lights only come on when fuel is low if the lights are functioning properly . This panel is located prominently , and is easy to notice . This is only one aircraft , but when you consider it is an entry level aircraft that is less sophisticated , it gives a baseline idea of what you could expect to see . Also , there are fuel gauges displayed with all engine instruments that will indicate accordingly . While this is n't a leak detector , pilots are trained to monitor all instruments regularly and cross check the values - which is how a leak is identified in aircraft with low amounts of technology . It is worth noting that checking the " LOW FUEL " annunciator is off is a regular checklist item that occurs before you start your actual flight . As GdD mentions in the comments - you are taught not to rely on any one instrument indication , and panel lights are no exception .
end question
start question
Has there ever been a seaplane with retractable pontoons ?
There have been a couple of examples - the <URL> , for example , had a retractable pontoon below the hull ( and retractable wing floats ) , though it was an one-off experimental aircraft with a single flight to its credit . <URL> Blackburn B20 , image from <URL> As a more widespread example , the <URL> 's wing floats were retracted electrically after takeoff . <URL> Catalina 's retractable wing float ; image from <URL> Retractable floats have been used in other aircraft too - like the <URL> and the <URL> . Some designs like the <URL> featured retractable floats , which were later removed due to issues . A little more digging reveals that the German <URL> had retractable floats quite early - during WWI ! . However , I doubt it counts as the aircraft never went past taxiing stage . <URL> Ursinus WD 10 fighter seaplane , image from <URL>
In this experiment to observe a deliberate airliner crash <URL> the crew exited in flight down the tail stairs ...
Yes <URL> <URL> ( 2002 ) <URL> ( 2002 ) JetBlue Airways is the first U.S. carrier to get approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to install video cameras on all its airplanes . JetBlue is a successful start-up carrier based at New York 's John F. International Kennedy airport . Soon after the Sept. 11 hijackings , the airline installed bullet-proof cockpit doors on all its planes . And it was the first carrier to match all luggage to passengers . The airline has outfitted one plane with the video surveillance system , and plans to have its 23 other jets equipped with the miniature cameras within the next few months . The cameras are positioned to cover the entire cabin . Some are visible , others are hidden so they can not be tampered with <URL> ( 2008 ) The European Union 's Security of Aircraft in the Future European Environment ( SAFEE ) project uses a camera in every passenger 's seat , with six wide-angle cameras to survey the aisles . Software then analyses the footage to detect developing terrorist activity or " air-rage " incidents , by tracking passengers ' facial expressions . <URL> ( 2012/2013 ? ) KID-Systeme has been selected to supply cabin surveillance equipment for the Airbus A350 XWB family of aircraft . The integrated solution will include both a cockpit door surveillance system ( CDSS ) and a cabin video monitoring system ( CVMS ) . The CDSS provides pilots with a clear view of anyone in the area of the cockpit door , enabling them to take the appropriate action when entry to the cockpit is requested . The CVMS allows both the pilots and the cabin crew to view passengers .
In the US , the FAA has done this alot , as in their long term plan to phase out a lot of the VORs . Doing that , they 're preemptively just adding a Fix for procedures on top of the VOR so they do n't have to update all the procedures when the VOR is decommissioned .
The folding wingtips are found mostly in naval aviation . The reason is the space constraint inside the hangar of the aircraft carrier . <URL> " <URL> " by U.S. Navy Photo by Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class John P. Curtis . As can be seen from the photo , folding the wings offers the only practical way of fitting fighter aircraft inside the cramped hangar space . For example , the F/A -18 C/D had a wing span of 11.43 m ; this was reduced to 8.38 m with the wings folded , a 26 % reduction . However , the price to pay is increase in complexity , weight , price and increased maintenance . The figure shows the wing folding mechanism of a F 18 . <URL> Source : polepositionimagery.com.au The major drawbacks of folding wings are , The increased weight and complexity due to the folding mechanism . The folding mechanism takes time to operate and there are safety concerns if they get stuck in a position . The folding of wings limits the fuel capacity and as a result , the range of the aircraft , as fuel is usually not carried on the folding part of the wings . <URL> Source : zarco-macross . wikidot.com As can be seen , the F/A does n't carry fuel in the folding part of the wing . In fact , after the airlines did n't take up its folding concept in 777 , Boeing added fuel tanks to that area and increased range of 777-200/300 . There has previously been no reason for airliners to fold their wings , as airports offered enough space for operations and ground movement . However , as the size of aircraft and their aspect ratios grow ( to reduce drag ) , designers are finding it more and more difficult to keep the wingspan below the 80m ' box ' which airlines believe is the maximum they can cope up economically . The first major program to be affected by this limitation was the A380 , which limited the wingspan of the aircraft to less than 80m and reduced its aspect ratio . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> ( clem AT tillier.net ) - Original Work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via <URL> . Basically , Boeing is facing the same problem . The proposed 777x is the aircraft with largest wingspan Boeing has ever produced . However , in case of A380 , Airbus managed to reduce induced drag through the use of wingtip fences , among other design decisions . 777x is expected to have a raked wingtip , which is not as space effective as the wingtip fence . <URL> Source : Flightglobal.com As a result , Boeing is considering folding wingtips . However , there are important differences between the original plan in 777 and the proposed plan in 777x . In the original plan , Boeing proposed to fold 21 ' of the wingtip . However , the new plans call for folding only 10 ' . <URL> Original Wing folding plan in Boeing 777 . Source : www.seattletimes.com <URL> Image : Boeing As can be seen from the figure , the folding plan is much more modest . This is not expected to have the drawbacks associated with the the original plan , as , The end of the wing will not house controls As the size of the wing to be folded is smaller , the folding mechanism will not be as heavy and complicated . That part probably not carry fuel Advances in actuation systems since the 777 will reduce the weight penalty To put things into perspective , the 747-400 winglets were 6 ' feet tall . Airlines have already placed orders for 777x and it is their operational record that will determine if other aviation manufacturers ( Airbus , that is . ) will follow suit .
Yes , commercial airplanes have landed or crash landed in water many times . If I am not mistaken , you are asking about scenarios when the on-board <URL> and life raft are used . <URL> is a list of water landings . Examples when a life raft was used are ( in addition to <URL> ) : On 22 October 1962 , a Northwest Airlines DC-7C with 7 crew and 95 passengers made a successful water landing in Sitka Sound . ... The plane stayed afloat for 24 minutes after coming to rest in the water , giving the occupants ample time to evacuate into life-rafts . In 1993 , <URL> , a Boeing 747 -- 409 , ended up in water after it overran runway 13 ... All of the 396 occupants donned life-vests , boarded the eight slide/rafts and no fatalities resulted .
Yes , we can ask you to plan your landing roll in a certain way . We wo n't technically instruct you to brake the aircraft in a specific way , but simply to aim for a specific taxiway after landing . There can be different reasons for this , but generally it is an attempt to expedite traffic flow on the ground at the airport . For example , if you are landing on a long runway and your parking position is near the far end of the runway , I might ask you to keep the plane rolling down the runway and vacate at the end , in order for you to have a shorter taxi time . It could also be that the taxiway you would normally use to leave the runway is blocked by another aircraft or vehicle , and I want you to leave the runway via a taxiway that is further down the runway . However , extending the landing roll does extend the runway occupancy time as well , so if there is another aircraft behind you on short final I will not offer you to perform a long landing roll . This is also why you should always ask ATC if you are planning to perform a long landing for one reason or the other -- if we have someone else just a couple miles behind you , we might have to instruct them to go around if you do not vacate the runway like we expect you to . With regards to reverse thrust specifically , there are airports where the use of reverse thrust is only permitted in special situations . This is to reduce the noise level at and around the airport . However , this is purely a regulatory thing , and is not actually related to ATC . ICAO offers the following guidance on the subject ( DOC 4444 ) : 7.10.3.1 When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic , a landing aircraft may be requested to : a ) hold short of an intersecting runway after landing ; b ) land beyond the touchdown zone of the runway ; c ) vacate the runway at a specified exit taxiway ; d ) expedite vacating the runway . 7.10.3.2 In requesting a landing aircraft to perform a specific landing and/or roll-out manoeuvre , the type of aircraft , runway length , location of exit taxiways , reported braking action on runway and taxiway , and prevailing meteorological conditions shall be considered . A HEAVY aircraft shall not be requested to land beyond the touchdown zone of a runway .
You can sail a seaplane , but there are a lot of considerations . For starters , it makes a big difference as to whether you 're talking about a seaplane where the hull is in the water or a floatplane . A floatplane sitting up on its pontoons ( floats ) is more up in the wind , but it 's also more susceptible to rough water because of its higher center of gravity . My personal experience with sailing a floatplane was with a J-3 cub with an 85 horse engine on rivers and lakes . If we wanted to back onto the shore , we had to sail it since there was no reverse pitch propeller . For purposes of explanation on how to do it , let 's say that there 's no wind , but we 're on a river with enough current that the movement of the floatplane with the current when the engine is off gives the floatplane a wind relative to the water . Further let 's say the river is flowing from east to west , and we want to back onto a beach on the north shore . We land and stop the engine upstream from the beach . As the floatplane drifts it will weathervane into the wind . Thus , with the controls neutralized , we 'll be facing west and moving downstream in mid-river with the current , but not as fast the current because of the drag of the wind on the aircraft . The rule of thumb is that you point the tail towards the shore you wish to get to . We do that by applying left rudder and right aileron . Thus we have increased the drag on the left wing , which will swing the nose left , and the left rudder will also swing the nose left . Thus the nose is now pointed a few degrees toward the left shore ( south ) , the tail toward the right shore ( north ) . The airplane will then sail to the right shore ( north ) relative to the direction the aircraft nose is pointing because the the aircraft is moving backwards relative to the water . The trick in this instance is vary the control input to arrive at the downstream point you want . For practice , I used to have students sail to alternate sides of the river on Oregon 's Willamette River downstream from the city of Eugene .
There was one more proposal before Thames Estuary Airport . That was the Cublington airport , which was rejected by planner <URL> , as " an environmental disaster . " Later the government rejected the proposal of this airport , and rather went for Thames Estuary . Other than that , there are no more proposals for new airports , but there are certain plans for expanding existing Heathrow and Gatwick . The Airports Commission says there is a need for one additional runway in the South East of England by 2030 . It has shortlisted three options : A third runway at Heathrow Lengthening an existing runway at Heathrow A second runway at Gatwick Read in detail about all of them <URL>
Well , there 's always someone.In January 1954 , American TV and Radio personality <URL> buzzed the Teterboro control tower with his <URL> , resulting in the <URL> : In the mid 1950 's , Arthur Godfrey was preparing to take off from Teterboro Airport in his private DC-3 . He requested a take off on a runway which was into the wind . The tower refused his request and instructed him to use a runway which had a sizeable crosswind . He complied , but he buzzed the tower , almost running into it . The tower personnel dove for cover and reported him . After a long hassle , Godfrey had his license suspended for six months . And he wrote a <URL> . Back then , you lost your license . If you try that stunt now , your chances of ending up in a black site are frighteningly real , as <URL> : ... ( Lees ) chartered the helicopter from another airport , landed at Coventry , where his actions effectively closed it down , then flew toward the control tower . Hovering close to it , he announced over the radio , " you are going to see the very worst of my flying " , then started to circle . He got sent to the jail for three years , with ... Judge Marten Coates told Shaun Lees , a 41-year-old electrician , what he had done was " practically an act of terrorism " .
If a pilot is already speaking to ATC ( or monitoring a frequency ) they should continue to use that frequency for any emergency or abnormal situation . If they are not currently receiving ATC services or on an ATC frequency , attempt to use 121.5 . Many ATC providers and enroute airliners monitor this frequency and can relay or provide assistance . The FAA 's <URL> describes emergency use of 121.5 in the United States : h. Although the frequency in use or other frequencies assigned by ATC are preferable , the following emergency frequencies can be used for distress or urgency communications , if necessary or desirable : 1 . 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz . Both have a range generally limited to line of sight . 121.5 MHz is guarded by direction finding stations and some military and civil aircraft . 243.0 MHz is guarded by military aircraft . Both 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz are guarded by military towers , most civil towers , FSSs , and radar facilities . Normally ARTCC emergency frequency capability does not extend to radar coverage limits . [ emphasis mine ] If an ARTCC does not respond when called on 121.5 MHz or 243.0 MHz , call the nearest tower or FSS .
Because the third engine would need to be near on centerline . That means in the tail . Putting the engine in the tail significantly changes its design requirements . Supporting an engine requires a lot of structural support . Then you need to run fuel to it . The effective height of the rudder is decreased . You probably need to switch over to a T-tail . The center of mass is also shifted which influences where the wings need to go . In short , adding a single engine requires a redesign of the entire tail . While adding an engine to the wings is much simpler .
Apparently , yes , it has -- see <URL> . As the article reports , the issues appeared to be related to the turbocharger , but I 'm not sure how far ( if at all ) accident reports or details go beyond that .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
Typically pilots do not know the 24-bit aircraft address of their aircraft . The 24 bit address is intended for data protocol level of communications and is not used in voice communication . Therefor there is no need for pilots to be aware of their ICAO 24-bit aircraft address . They use the aircraft 's registration if they need to identify the aircraft they are using for the flight . The 24-bit address is used by transponders for communication with Mode-S radars , ADS-B transmissions , by TCAS for tracking traffic and coordinating Resolution Advisories and by Data-Link communications .
Short answer : No Long answer : No . Look at the <URL> , this is some of the best solar-electric technology that 's out there , and it 's barely able to carry one person , very very slowly . If you took an airliner , covered it in the best solar cells available and connected it to the best electric engines available it probably would n't even be able to taxi . Some science here : The maximum energy density of the sun on the Earth is about 1300 watts/meters squared . About 30 % is lost in the atmosphere so the best you 'll get on the surface of the earth is about 900 W/m2 . The 737 , for example , has 102 square meters of wing area , that would equate to about 90000 watts ( 90KW ) of sun energy hitting the wing . The best power conversion we have of solar to electricity we have is about 10 % , so you would get at most 9KW of power from a 737 solar array . As we see from <URL> it takes 90 MW ( megawatts ) of power to get a 747 into the air , assuming it takes about 1/3 or that ( 30MW or 30000KW ) to get a 737 into the air , then that array will only generate 0.3 % of the electricity needed , and that 's the best possible case in the strongest sun . If it 's cloudy or at night you are completely out of luck . Any solution based on current battery technology is <URL> , and it 's very much a no at this point . Theoretically it is not possible that a solar powered passenger airplane could be as good as a jet-a1 powered passenger jet , this is because the energy from the sun is not sufficient even if you had 100 % conversion to electricity . If battery technology were to become orders of magnitude better to the point its energy density compared to liquid fuels then it very well could , this is a long way off , the best batteries that are currently lab concepts are about 1/5 of the density of liquid fuel . Once batteries get there then solar power could charge them for the flight . It 's actually just as possible that solar power could be used to make liquid fuel in a renewable way from CO2 and other elements in the environment . Bio-fuels are solar powered , but we ca n't make much of a dent in fuel use with them without taking food off of people 's plates , and personally I 'd rather eat !
Unruly passengers can face the followings : Monetary fines Prison sentences Ban on that airline <URL> : In the United States , passengers who disrupt the duties of a flight crew member can face fines up to $ 25,000 and sometimes lengthy prison sentences . IATA has a policy for these passengers mentioned <URL> , and more information is <URL> . ICAO has a <URL> on unruly passenger prevention and management . They have adopted a <URL> to amend <URL> .
You can find this information in the Airport Facility Directory which is published in print by the FAA and is available <URL> . REIL will be listed for the specific runway for the airport in question . For example I fly out of KDYL and if we take a look at the page in the AFD for KDYL you will see REIL listed for RWY 23 <URL> ( <URL> )
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
We might speculate why the METAR is giving innaccurate data , but the question asks , " What should one do ... " I will take the liberty of inferring the question to be " what should one do if one is unable to obtain an altimeter setting for the airport from which he or she is preparing to depart ? " Note that this question could be asked due to an airport with a faulty weather reporting system ( as in the question above ) , an airport without weather reporting at all ( quite common , for example : <URL> or <URL> ) , or an aircraft that is not radio equipped . I will further take the liberty of answering from what I know : the FAA regulations . I will point out that it is the pilot 's responsibility to be familiar with all available information and this should include a thorough weather briefing whenever possible . Under the FAA 's jurisdiction , the relevant regulation is <URL> : ( a ) Each person operating an aircraft shall maintain the cruising altitude or flight level of that aircraft , as the case may be , by reference to an altimeter that is set , when operating -- ( 1 ) Below 18,000 feet MSL , to -- ( i ) The current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft ; ( ii ) If there is no station within the area prescribed in paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station ; or ( iii ) In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure ( Since all airports and terrain in the US are below 18,000 MSL , this applies to takeoff ; the rules governing flight above 18,000 -- <URL> -- do not apply to our question . " Operate " is defined in <URL> . ) We can go through this like a flowchart : If " the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft " is available , use that . ( Note that this could include current reported altimeter settings obtained by radio ( ATC , flight service , or a nearby airport ) , phone call ( briefer or AWOS ) , internet , or any other method that would procure the needed data . ) If no such station is available , then use " the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . " Now , if the aircraft in question is not equipped with a radio , then ( and I would read technically only then ) the pilot is permitted to set the altimeter to " the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure . " Now , that being said , if a pilot is in the middle of the Idaho backcountry at Wilson Bar <URL> , or on the face of an Alaskan glacier , with no cell reception and no real way to acquire a current reported altimeter setting despite being in a radio equipped aircraft , then actual practice will be to set the altimeter to field elevation and get on with it . However , the requirement to use a current reported altimeter setting remains , and should be acquired at the first available opportunity .
end question
start question
Why are not passengers allowed the option of shoulder harnesses ?
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
Considering piston engines in general there 's a few reasons not to run " lean of peak " , but the arguments I 'm aware of all fall into three broad categories : Poor Instrumentation Most folks advocating Lean-of-Peak engine operation will also tell you that you need a good engine monitor ( with Exhaust Gas Temperature ( EGT ) and Cylinder Head Temperature ( CHT ) probes for each cylinder ) so you can ensure that all your cylinders are operating within safe temperature limits . Manufacturer CHT/EGT systems are often " single-probe " . On the IO-360 in your Cessna example that leaves you with a 3 cylinder blind spot in your monitoring , and the potential risk of damaging your engine based on the incomplete information you have . Uneven mixture distribution Some engines simply ca n't run lean of peak because of uneven mixture distribution : Either the engine will get rough as some cylinders " miss " , or you 'll have some cylinders lean of peak EGT and at a safe cylinder head temperature while others are redlining their CHT and potentially causing damage to your engine . This sort of uneven mixture distribution happens frequently in carbureted engines , but there are many injected engines which also have poor fuel distribution &amp; significant variation in mixture between cylinders ( This is where GAMIJectors makes their money - by providing balanced injectors to even out fuel distribution ) . " In Case Something Breaks " Hypothetical scenario : you are cruising at 8000 feet , you 've leaned for cruise , and your mixture control suddenly fails in such a way that your engine is stuck at the current mixture setting . All the airports within your endurance range are roughly at sea level . An engine running lean of peak may begin to run rough as you descend for landing ( the mixture becomes too lean to support combustion ) . An engine running rich of peak may continue to run acceptably through the descent . ( The mixture may transition into <URL> where operation at high power settings are dangerous , but you 'll theoretically be reducing power for your descent , so the chance of doing damage to your engine is n't that high unless you have to perform a go-around or other high-power maneuver . A prohibition on Lean-of-Peak operation in your POH is probably historically based on # 1 or # 2 above -- the manufacturer does n't want to advise you to do something that might damage your engine . Running Rich-of-Peak is conservative operating guidance , where the downside is slightly increased fuel consumption and the possibility of fouling a spark plug ( which is not likely at normal operating power settings ) versus the downside of potential engine damage from improper Lean-of-Peak operation .
Short answer The kinetic energy involved in a plane crash is inhumanely high . Slightly longer answer We can built bombs which will go through concrete roofs and ceilings of a bunker , counting the number of floors they crash through while descending so they can explode at the level where the bad guys sit and not where the widows and orphans are kept . We could equally well build a plane with this kind of strength , so the fuselage stays intact even when it crashes into a mountainside . That 's not the problem . Limits of the human body The problem will be that rescuers will only find dead bodies inside . The human body was " designed " to endure things like running into a tree , but not being hurled around at Mach 0.85 and then being stopped almost instantly . Thanks to years of research we now have quite a good idea where the limits are . Martin Eiband collected a lot of data on this , if you want to know more , google for " Eiband diagrams " . If you want the full picture , read the <URL> . It comes in five volumes , and volume 1 covers the design criteria . The Eiband diagram below is lifted from this source . Note the time scale : A deceleration with 40 g can only be tolerated for a duration of 0.1 seconds ; if the deceleration takes more than 1 second , the limit is only 10 g . Now let 's see what deceleration distance is required to stop a human with an average deceleration of 10 g . The energy $ E$ of a body of the mass $ m $ increases with the square of speed $ v $ : $ $ E = m \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = m \ cdot a \ cdot s $ $ At $ a = 98.0665 $ m/s ² , the stopping distance $ s $ from an initial speed $ v $ is $ \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot a } $ : Car crash at 30 m/s : This needs 4.6 m and good restraints , but is generally survivable . Free fall at 60 m/s terminal velocity : 18.4 m . <URL> by falling into soft ground like a snow-covered conifer forest . This is also the typical approach speed of airliners , and the 18.4 m is the fuselage ahead of you . That is the reason why a crash is <URL> for the occupants in the rear seat rows . Propeller airplane flies into mountain ( 120 m/s ) : 73.42 m . This kind of <URL> is simply not available , and nobody has survived such an impact . Airliner flies into a mountain ( 240 m/s ) : 293.7 m. To make such a crash survivable , every airliner would need to carry a 300 m boom of stiff material around which would be needed as a crumple zone in an accident . Just think what kind of aft fuselage and tail this would require . And to top it : Astronaut on a space walk collides with a satellite in an opposing orbit ( 16,000 m/s ) : 1305.23 km . Note that I had to switch units to keep the number manageable . Please consider lower deceleration limits for elderly and untrained persons ; the limit in the Eiband diagram was established using healthy young pilots ( and hogs , chimps and corpses for the higher limits . A lot of blood was spilled to arrive at these numbers ) . The problem is not the aircraft structure , it is the fact that humans like to go fast but are not built to stop quickly .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
In short : acclimatization , both chronic and acute . During your Tibet-trip , you had probably spent days at high altitudes , allowing your body to acclimatize to the lower oxygen partial pressure ( similar to how some elite endurance athletes prepare themselves for competition ) , by increasing your hemoglobin count ( and other mechanisms ) , making you better prepared for the walk at 18,500 ft. This is an example of chronic acclimatization . A normal sea-level dweller will not have had the benefit of the same acclimatization phase in a depressurization situation ( albeit a pilot could probably have some degree of acclimatization from continuously being exposed to higher than sea-level cabin altitudes ) , and will hence have a shorter TUC . The onset of the depressurization will also play a big part in determining your TUC . A slow depressurization will allow for some acute acclimatization , whilst a rapid depressurization will allow for none . The shock of a rapid depressurization will also decrease your TUC . The table on the Wikipedia page you quoted is the same ( or very similar ) to what you 'll find in most Human Performance literature for airmen , and is , according the same Wikipedia page " average TUC for healthy , young military pilots " .
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
Bear in mind that these tests were n't to prove the safety of the aircraft per se , just to show that it would work as an airliner . It had to be loaded up with an appropriate complement of passengers and luggage to prove this . However proving flights may not generate revenue from passengers - they are either selected through an application process or chosen at random , and take part in the proceedings free of charge . <URL> ( Page 2 , point 3 )
I found this on <URL> " Some call signs are less obviously associated with a particular airline than others . This might be for historic reasons ( South African Airways uses the callsign " Springbok " , hearkening back to the airline 's old livery which featured a springbok ) , or possibly to avoid confusion with a call sign used by an established airline . Companies ' assigned names may change as a result of mergers , acquisitions , or change in company name or status ; British Airways uses BOAC 's old callsign ( " Speedbird " ) , as British Airways was formed by a merger of BOAC and British European Airways . Country names can also change over time and new call signs may be agreed in substitution for traditional ones . " Before America West bought US Airways , their callsigns were Cactus ( associated with the deserts of the American West ) and USAir . After the merger , the combined airline kept the better-known ( airline ) name , and the other airline 's callsign . Now , after the acquisition/merger of American Airlines , they 're using that airline 's name and callsign . Leading to more than a few radio calls recently ( late spring / early summer 2015 ) along the lines of
I 've heard about lots of bird strike incidents that occured during a takeoff roll or the early phase of takeoff climb but hardly heard of bird strikes on approach or landing . This is always a dangerous thing . Only because you hear more bird strikes that occur on takeoff , it does not mean there are more at takeoff . I found , for example , <URL> about bird strikes from the year 2000 . It says : [ ... ] 38 % of the bird strikes occurred during take-off and climb , and 56 % during approach [ ... ] That means there are more bird strikes during approach than on takeoff . I assume things have n't changed a lot since then . This question is even answered in the <URL> : Q : Do most bird strikes occur while in flight , at takeoff , or landing ? A : About 60 % of bird strikes with civil aircraft occur during landing phases of flight ( descent , approach and landing roll ) ; 37 % occur during take-off run and climb ; and the remainder occur during the en-route phase . A more specific statistic : <URL> <URL> Possible reason for subjective perception of bird-strikes happening more often during departure I thought a little about it and came to following possible reason : After a bird-strike on final , the pilots will continue landing . It would be unwise not to land immediately . For the passengers it will look like a normal landing . If the bird damages the engine , there is only a small change of sound , because the engines are running very low . However , when a bird-strike occurs while taking off , there is immediate action taken by the pilots . And because the engines are at or near full thrust , the sound of a dying engine can be perceived by the passengers . Last but not least , a departing aircraft has a much higher speed than a landing one , which means more damage . So , for newspapers , a bird-strike at take-off is more <URL> . More damage to the plane than a bird-strike on final Passengers not reaching their destination Dramatic passenger interviews about their " near-death-experience " A newspaper is not interested in a bird-strike on final , where everything went fine and no passenger noticed anything . To support my theorem , I googled " bird strike " and clicked on the " News " - tab . I looked through every article that had to do something with an bird-strike incident . 5 out of 6 articles were about a bird-strike on take-off . That 's over 80 % .
Short answer : Turbofans need supersonic speed at the fan blade tips to create their high thrust . Turbofans can tolerate supersonic speeds because the intake creates constant flow conditions irrespective of flight speed . Efficiency for propellers and fan blades is highest at subsonic flow conditions . Propellers can turn at supersonic speeds , but since flow conditions are less controlled , the penalty for doing so is much higher than the penalty for a fan . Explanation It is a bad thing to have supersonic fan blade tips , just like supersonic propeller tips are best avoided . But in turbofans it is a price worth paying , because the faster tip velocity means higher dynamic pressure , and the pressure difference between both sides of the fan blade grows with the square of their velocity . This makes the high thrust levels of modern turbofans possible . <URL> Propeller efficiency over speed ( picture <URL> ) . The plot for fan blades would look not much different . The very thin , uncambered airfoil of a supersonic propeller and the added wave drag lower the maximum efficiency , but hold efficiency up into supersonic air speeds . Note that the propeller on the <URL> did move at supersonic speed . There is nothing inherent in propellers which prevents their tips from moving faster than the speed of sound . On the other hand , the big diameter of a prop requires proportionally more torque to keep the prop rotating against the drag from the supersonic tips . Thus , a fan engine requires less torque per blade to reach supersonic tip speeds on the fan blades . Also , the <URL> to make the noise from supersonic tips manageable . The XF-84H 's noise made people literally sick . But there is more to it : @FreeMan encouraged me with his comment to dive a little deeper . A supersonic propeller will work well when the direction of flow at every station along the propeller blade is about equal to the local airfoil chord . Since the blade is uncambered , this means that the change in local flow direction at the leading edge can be minimized to the amount which is required to create the desired thrust . But to be able to fulfill this condition you need to match your propeller speed to the flight speed and twist distribution . Also , the angle of attack must be compensated for by sviveling this propeller axis into the direction of flight . It will have no <URL> , but can run at only one speed for a given flight speed . Contrast this with a turbofan : The intake makes sure that the flow speed and direction at the face of the fan is the same no matter what the flight speed is . This is done by the pressure field in and around the intake which <URL> in from the sides at low speed . In the fan you can indeed match the local angle of incidence to the airspeed so the fan will work well over its design range . Generally , a fully subsonic fan would be more efficient . But then the diameter would need to be as large as that of big turboprop engines , and the shroud would become impossibly heavy and produce too much drag . The high dynamic pressure on the fan blades is needed to produce the thrust with the relatively small diameter of a turbofan .
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
No , no restrictions on using an afterburner . There are a few <URL> on the civil registration that must use the afterburner to take off . However , most countries forbid supersonic flight by non military operated aircraft in their airspace . The only time Concorde went supersonic was over the ocean .
The blades are loose in their " Fir Tree " blade mounts so that they can self balance . They are called " fir tree " because they are v shaped . As the rotation speed and centrifugal force increases , they move in the mounts and establish individual lead/lag positions to achieve a balanced disc . It will be understood that turbine wheels rotate at very high speeds of rotation , thereby generating large centirfugal forces tending to throw the blades outwardly from the wheel . By providing contact surfaces of equal and opposite slope with respect to the longitudinal axis of the root on opposite sides of root , the force components of the centrifugal force balance each other out . Periodic and other vibrations which might otherwise be generated are damped out and greatly minimized Source : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Because the third engine would need to be near on centerline . That means in the tail . Putting the engine in the tail significantly changes its design requirements . Supporting an engine requires a lot of structural support . Then you need to run fuel to it . The effective height of the rudder is decreased . You probably need to switch over to a T-tail . The center of mass is also shifted which influences where the wings need to go . In short , adding a single engine requires a redesign of the entire tail . While adding an engine to the wings is much simpler .
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
See Chapter 4 of this IATA document for flight crew management of unruly passengers . <URL> In general , they will weed a lot of the negative behavior out on the ground prior to boarding by looking for signs of agitation or aggressiveness towards other passengers or crew . Should a passenger becom unruly while enroute , the following is generally done . Assess the situation and level threat : what 's happening ? who is doing it ? what are their grievances ? Are the legitimate e.g. . A family member having a medical emergency or trivial e.g. Passenger in 22B is drunk and aggressive ? If there are other than legitimate reasons for the disruption , action in taken using the use-of-force continuum : Physical presence - flight crew will be nearby watching subject . Verbal commands - confront subject . Inform them of both the airline 's and Law Enforcemnt 's zero tolerance policy toward their exhibited behavior . Inform them if they continue with this behavior the aircraft will be landed , they will be placed under arrest by LE on the ground , and that penalties for their actions are severe . Try to calm them down as well , but do NOT serve them alcohol , even if requested . If behavior continues , quietly inform the cockpit crew of the disruption and they will make arrangements to divert to nearby airport and inform local airport police and other LE agencies to be ready on the ground . If passenger has become so unruly that they are posing an immediate threat to other passengers around them , physical force can be used to restrain them by the flight crew . This poses a high risk and should only be done as a last resort to regain control of the cabin . If there is a federal Sky Marshall ( s ) on board they can assist the crew here as well . Restraints such as handcuffs and the waist belts may be used to immobilize subject until LE can take over . Divert will become urgent . Electro Muscular Disruptors - flight crews are now being equipped with and trained on the use of the TASER EMD systems to immobilize unruly passengers in order to restrain them . If subject 's actions pose an immediate threat to life and limb of passengers and threaten the safety of the aircraft and crew ( VERY low probability but it is is a contingency ) , deadly force may be used to neutralize the threat . Near as I know some Capt. / FOs do carry firearms as do Sky Marshals . I 'm not aware of guns being issued to flight attendants .
The answer can be found in Annex 16 of the ICAO , a copy including the noise limits can be found <URL> . Below a little excerpt from the annex : ( a ) For acoustical changes to Stage 1 airplanes , regardless of the number of engines , the noise levels prescribed under § 36.7 ( c ) of this part . What are the ' Chapter 2 ' and ' Chapter 3 ' aircraft noise classifications ? Certificated noise levels for larger aircraft are classified by the ICAO ' Standards and Recommended Practices -- Aircraft Noise : Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ' into a ) Chapter 2 types , characterised by the noisier , low bypass turbofan aircraft and early high bypass turbofan aircraft , and b ) Chapter 3 types , characterised by the modern , quieter , high bypass turbofan aircraft . Under European legislation , since 2002 , ' Chapter 2 ' aircraft ( of over 34 tonnes maximum take-off weight or with more than 19 seats ) have no longer been allowed to operate at European airports . There are separate noise certification schemes for small propeller aircraft and for helicopters . ( b ) For any Stage 2 airplane regardless of the number of engines : ( 1 ) Flyover : 108 EPNdB for maximum weight of 600,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 600,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 5 EPNdB ; the limit is 93 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 75,000 pounds or less . ( 2 ) Lateral and approach : 108 EPNdB for maximum weight of 600,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 600,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2 EPNdB ; the limit is 102 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 75,000 pounds or less . ( c ) For any Stage 3 airplane : ( 1 ) Flyover . ( i ) For airplanes with more than 3 engines : 106 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 44,673 pounds or less ; ( ii ) For airplanes with 3 engines : 104 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 63,177 pounds or less ; and ( iii ) For airplanes with fewer than 3 engines : 101 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 106,250 pounds or less . ( 2 ) Lateral , regardless of the number of engines : 103 EPNdB for maximum weight of 882,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 882,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2.56 EPNdB ; the limit is 94 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 77,200 pounds or less . ( 3 ) Approach , regardless of the number of engines : 105 EPNdB for maximum weight of 617,300 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 617,300 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2.33 EPNdB ; the limit is 98 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 77,200 pounds or less . ( d ) For any Stage 4 airplane , the flyover , lateral , and approach maximum noise levels are prescribed in Chapter 4 , Paragraph 4.4 , Maximum Noise Levels , and Chapter 3 , Paragraph 3.4 , Maximum Noise Levels , of the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) Annex 16 , Environmental Protection , Volume I , Aircraft Noise , Third Edition , July 1993 , Amendment 7 , effective March 21 , 2002 . [ Incorporated by reference , see § 36.6 ] .
I had a cartridge in my bag when going through airline security . These are not uncommon . They are also used in for instance : Life Vests Ski Airbags Soft air guns In other words , it 's not an unusual object , especially for holidays which I guess both your two mentioned destinations might be for many travellers . I 've checked in my bag with an automatic self-inflating life vests a few times and while it went in the hold never had any problems or found it removed . I believe there may be some limitations though on the number you can pass through , and they might start asking questions if you have more than two . I estimate roughly 15 airports ( some duplicates ) either did n't detect the cartridge or just ignored it . It 's not unjustified not checking them in . Onboard pressure changes , the cargo hold is cold and will shake during turbulence which just might trigger it to deploy if left screwed onto a life vest of similar . probably present more danger than other prohibited items , such as nail clippers I ca n't see any real threat posed by these , except for the gun application , which of course requires a gun and not only a cartridge . Btw , TSA <URL> . Ryanair , the World 's favourite airline ;) <URL> the following : Carriage of Self Inflating Lifejacket A self inflating lifejacket with 2 carbon dioxide cylinders ( plus 2 spares ) can be included in either cabin or checked baggage . In other words , they appear pretty liberal on the matter .
The point is not that the oxygen is used up . Even after a depressurization , the air around you still contains so much oxygen that it would take your body ( at rest ) hours to burn it all . But this oxygen is spread out so thinly that a standard set of lungs will not be up to getting enough of it from the cabin air into your blood at the rate your brain needs . This goes into effect immediately when the pressure drops . As soon as the oxygen masks fall down , the flight crew will know , and they will make it an immediate priority to get the aircraft down to an altitude where the masks are not needed anymore because the outside pressure is high enough to breathe by . This takes less than the time the oxygen generators last for . ( Usually descending will take much less time than the masks are good for -- the critical design factor for the oxygen mask duration is that if you happen to be over tall mountains when the pressure drops you may need to fly for a bit of time to reach terrain low enough to dispense with the masks . There are a few places , such as over the Tibetan plateau , where airline flights simply do n't go because it 's too far from sufficiently low terrain for the masks to last ) . There is no realistic chance of the oxygen generators running dry while you still need them . If you delay putting your mask on , all you buy is a danger of fainting or otherwise being unable to don it ( from low pressure , not depletion of oxygen in the air ) before you decide to put it on -- and then you may end up in a low-oxygen state for long enough to risk permanent harm . There 's a reason why the safety briefing always instructs you to put your own mask on before helping others -- because the time it takes to help someone else may well be enough to incapacitate yourself .
end question
start question
Are lockwires still preferred over self-locking nuts and other ways of bolted joints ` safety ?
Difficulties and costs of maintaining the lock-wiring are obvious . My intuition says it only has to be used as a last resort when no other way is available . Nevertheless any aviation junk yard says my intuition is wrong . Lock-wires are everywhere in the old gas turbine engines . My question is : Do they now use other methods of bolted joints ` safety in gas turbine engines ( jam nuts and locking washers in particular ) ? Well , maintaining safety lockwire is n't as hard as you think it is : A pair of safety wire pliers will last you a lifetime , and they do about 80 % of the work for you ( all the maintenance monkey needs to do is cut an appropriate length of wire , hook up the pliers , and twist , making sure the wire is positioned so as to always tighten the fastener ) . It is easy to inspect , repairing is simple ( just replace the damaged wire ) , and cost for a spool of wire is minimal compared to using a new self-locking nut every time something needs to be taken apart ( safety wire earns its keep for temporary assembly too : You can wire the assembly when you 're done , rather than wearing the lock material on a self-locking nut ) . Other methods of securing fasteners are used on aircraft ( in engines and elsewhere ) , including cotter pins and self-locking nuts with nylon inserts to prevent them from slipping . The cotter pin is easy to verify ( like safety wire ) , and is widely used . Self locking nuts on the other hand can slip without much visual indication ( torque seal or similar products are often used to mark the nut and fastener to give a visual indication of slip ) . A disadvantage to self locking nuts is that they must be replaced any time the fastener is removed ( reused nuts will have a lower locking resistance , <URL> ) , and using them introduces a potential for human error in maintenance operations that does not exist with safety wire , which must be cut to remove it . ( There are even folks who try to reuse cotter pins , though normally they are cut to remove them and thus can not be reused . )
Jet engines are only efficient at high altitudes and high speed ( 25,000 + feet or so and 300 + knots or so true airspeed ) . The cost of making and operating an airplane capable of flying there is very high , and most general aviation flights have no need of such performance ( or expense ) hence , propeller airplanes . Reciprocating engine propeller airplanes are relatively efficient at low altitudes and airspeeds , they are more economical for the average types of general aviation flights . They are also much cheaper to build and operate than a turbine powered airplane . Turboprops fill the efficiency gap between reciprocating and pure jet engines , being most efficient at mid altitudes and airspeeds . Still more expense and performance than most general aviation flights need though .
Most modern planes are made mostly of <URL> . Or at least are skinned in aluminum . The spars and cross members may be made of other materials but I am under the impression they are mainly aluminum as well . Generally high stress areas like wing/fuselage joints may be made of more rigid materials like steel . Aircraft Spruce provides a nice <URL> . This answer to a similar question <URL> . As the technology gets better and the facilities grow in both scale and ability , <URL> . Here is a break down for the 787 <URL> ( <URL> )
The most important sources of noise in an aircraft ( especially during landing ) are the engines , the slats/flaps and the gear . An aircraft 's angle of descent has an effect on the noise experienced by people below . Steeper the angle , the less time an aircraft spends at low altitudes , which means that fewer people should be affected by higher levels of noise . The reduction in noise ( as <URL> ) due to steeper ( 3.2 $ ^ { \ circ } $ ) landing approaches are due to the following : The aircraft is higher ( compared to the 3 $ ^ { \ circ } $ landing angle ) , and as a result , less noise is heard by the people below . The deployment of flaps before intercept may also be 0.7 nm closer to the airport as the ILS intercept occurs 0.7 nm closer to the airport . Thrust increase for a/c stabilization 0.3 nm closer to the airport ; this results in lower noise . The thrust required was also reportedly lower . Landing gear deployment is 0.4 nm closer to the airport ( at the same height of 2000 ft ) The differences due to changing the glideslope to 3.2 $ ^ { \ circ } $ from the present 3 $ ^ { \ circ } $ is shown in the following image : <URL> Image from Experience with the steeper approach angle of 3.2 degrees - Presentation by DLR As for safety , this system is expected to pose no problems as most aircraft and pilots are easily capable of doing this . As an added measure , the trial is only being carried out when visibility is good ( Cat I ) and the trial is optional ( for aircraft using ILS anyway ) . Some airports ( like London City ) have very steep landing approaches for clearing obstructions and may require special certifications and aircraft modifications .
The metal of the tanker 's boom ( or drogue ) contacts the metal of the receiver 's receptacle ( or probe ) first , and that contact is maintained , so that would serve to ground the two aircraft to each other . It 's a good question , but I 've never heard of any fuel explosions due to static buildup during air-to-air refueling , so evidently the systems in place alleviate the risks . Aerial refueling is pretty routine these days , so in relative terms it would seem to be fairly safe . Purging the fuel lines is a relative term ; you could remove the liquid fuel from the lines , but you 'd still have vapors , and those are more flammable than the liquid jet fuel itself . Maybe somebody who flew ( or flies ) tankers can discuss how far down the boom the fuel goes BEFORE everything is connected and they start pumping ; as a receiver I just remember that the fuel flowed into the manifold and then into the tanks . We did n't do anything special to clear the manifold or fuel lines on our end . There ARE some inherent risks when refueling between two aircraft flying in close formation that are accepted ( i.e. the risk level is okay for the military mission , but nobody does it for commercial airliners ) , but I do n't think this is one of them .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
No , no , by all means do n't turn left . See also <URL> . Transport category aircraft are capable of climbing out on one engine . It is a certification requirement for them . So if the left engine failed after rotation , the first thing the pilot has to concentrate on is to keep the plane flying and under control . That means ease the pull on the stick a bit to avoid stalling as the plane is not able to climb as fast and push the right rudder pedal to keep the plane flying straight ¹ . Once the plane is in straight climb at $ V_2 $ speed , it 's time to deal with the engine . First both pilots cross-check the instruments and the rudder position to determine it was the left engine that failed . Then they feather the propeller ( auto-feather might have done it already ) and cut fuel to the failed engine . If the engine fire warning is on and did not extinguish when fuel was cut , they discharge fire extinguisher . These things are done according to standard emergency procedure that the pilots have to remember and train in simulator . I do n't know the specifics for ATR-72 , but in all aircraft it is roughly like above . Meanwhile the aircraft climbs to safe altitude and then they should level off and let it accelerate a bit to get some safety margin for manoeuvring . The plane is now in relatively safe condition . Even if engine was on fire , it is unlikely to spread while the aircraft is flying . So the pilots now have time to declare emergency and ask the controller for what options they have for landing . Whether they do a complete circuit and land back on the same runway or turn around and land in opposite direction or land on some other runway then depends on wind and where they are relative to the runways at the time . There were many accidents where plane crashed after one engine failure during take-off because pilots started manoeuvring before they attained sufficient altitude and safe speed . It is better not to hurry , engine failure does not require it . ¹ Of course provided there are no obstacles in the way . For example if you were taking off from VQPR runway 33 and your right engine quit , you 'd still have to do a right turn rather early to avoid the <URL> right in the axis of the runway and quite a bit above it . But for any airport that require such avoidance ( and there is quite a few of them in various mountains ) , the pilots are specifically briefed and trained for that airport which includes instructions on how to best handle engine failure during take-off and during approach and viability of the procedure is verified in simulator and with a test flight . The above answer just outlines the generic procedure .
The <URL> gives a couple of possible reasons that the reaction was not sustained in Appendix D on page 257 : The flash fire initially consumed the oxygen inside the tank ; reducing the oxygen concentration level to below the threshold required for sustained combustion of Jet A-1 . The general temperature rise associated with the initial combustion was low and insufficient to increase the temperature of the fuel inside the tank to at least the lower flammability limit of Jet A-1 . Quenching of the flame by the cool fuel tank walls ( evident from the sooting ) and the entry of cooling air through the tank perforations may have promoted this . Note that Jet-A requires quite a bit of activation energy to vaporize and burn . If the burning of what fuel did burn did n't produce enough energy to provide activation energy for the surrounding fuel , the fire would not be sustained . The fire was likely very brief as the turbine disc fragment passed through the tank . From what I 've heard ( I have n't tried this myself , ) you can drop a lit match in a bucket of Jet-A and it wo n't ignite . Using fuel that does n't easily burst into flames in a vehicle designed to carry tens of thousands of gallons of fuel at several hundred miles per hour is desirable and intentional for obvious reasons . To illustrate just how hard it is to burn Jet-A , the fuel tanks in Asiana 214 never ignited . The entire fuselage was burned out , but the fuel tanks never burned . Remnants of Asiana 214 's hull <URL>
The simplest thing is to ask someone local where runups are usually done : the FBO , Ground Control or another pilot . If you ca n't find out then you can do them anywhere you like as long as it 's safe . Some airports have specific runup areas but they are n't always obvious . For example , KPDK has runup areas at both ends of taxiway A , they 're shown on the <URL> as ' bulges ' in the taxiway but they are n't labelled . You might notice them when you land and taxi but you might not . I 've circled one of the runup areas in red here : <URL> If there are no runup areas , the ' default ' location is the one you remember from training : on the taxiway just before reaching the runway , angled into the wind . If the taxiway is wide enough , you can move to the edge so that other aircraft can pass you if they 're ready before you . That 's very common and it 's what many pilots will expect you to do , even if you have to block the taxiway for a couple of minutes . This is where you have to use some judgement : if you know that you need to take your time on runups - perhaps it 's an unfamiliar aircraft , or you 've just had maintenance done and you 're double-checking everything - then you might look for another spot where you wo n't be in the way . Blocking other aircraft from reaching the runway is always a possibility , but at airports with a lot of GA traffic - and especially a lot of flight training - it 's common and just something to be expected . That does n't mean you should take forever doing your checks and of course some other pilots will always get annoyed at even minor delays , but if the only safe place to do runups is the taxiway then just do them there and the others will wait . Another option is to do runups on the ramp or before entering the <URL> so that you do n't block other aircraft anywhere . That 's especially important at airports with scheduled commercial flights because they usually have very precise departure times and getting stuck behind another aircraft for even a few minutes could be an issue . If you 're in that environment , then you should definitely check with Ground Control what they want you to do . But be careful about doing runups on the ramp because of people and vehicles moving around . Also be wary about doing runups a long way from the runway : during a long taxi you might change something ( e.g. the mixture or fuel controls ) and then forget to reset it for takeoff . The one place you should never do runups is on the runway itself . Sitting there for several minutes blocking the runway for landing traffic and unable to see final approach behind you is n't a good position to put yourself in . Finally , avoiding blowing debris into other aircraft should be simple : just look around you , and do n't position the aircraft so that your prop blast is going somewhere it should n't .
Difficulties and costs of maintaining the lock-wiring are obvious . My intuition says it only has to be used as a last resort when no other way is available . Nevertheless any aviation junk yard says my intuition is wrong . Lock-wires are everywhere in the old gas turbine engines . My question is : Do they now use other methods of bolted joints ` safety in gas turbine engines ( jam nuts and locking washers in particular ) ? Well , maintaining safety lockwire is n't as hard as you think it is : A pair of safety wire pliers will last you a lifetime , and they do about 80 % of the work for you ( all the maintenance monkey needs to do is cut an appropriate length of wire , hook up the pliers , and twist , making sure the wire is positioned so as to always tighten the fastener ) . It is easy to inspect , repairing is simple ( just replace the damaged wire ) , and cost for a spool of wire is minimal compared to using a new self-locking nut every time something needs to be taken apart ( safety wire earns its keep for temporary assembly too : You can wire the assembly when you 're done , rather than wearing the lock material on a self-locking nut ) . Other methods of securing fasteners are used on aircraft ( in engines and elsewhere ) , including cotter pins and self-locking nuts with nylon inserts to prevent them from slipping . The cotter pin is easy to verify ( like safety wire ) , and is widely used . Self locking nuts on the other hand can slip without much visual indication ( torque seal or similar products are often used to mark the nut and fastener to give a visual indication of slip ) . A disadvantage to self locking nuts is that they must be replaced any time the fastener is removed ( reused nuts will have a lower locking resistance , <URL> ) , and using them introduces a potential for human error in maintenance operations that does not exist with safety wire , which must be cut to remove it . ( There are even folks who try to reuse cotter pins , though normally they are cut to remove them and thus can not be reused . )
One way to look at the differences between them is by looking at the effects of having multiple wings . Having multiple wings means that the same aircraft can produce more lift for the same wingspan , as they have a greater wing area . As a result , the biplanes and triplanes have lesser wing loading , which results in shoter to/landing and lower stall speeds . The shorter wingspan results in reduced roll inertia and roll damping , which results in better roll rates in the bi - and tri - planes . This improved maneuverability was the reason for the surge in triplane designes during WWI . Due to interference effects , the bi - and tri - planes actually require higher wing area to produce the required lift . Also , the drag is also higher than the monoplane , which gets more pronounced as the speed increases . The main reason for the use of bi - and tri - planes was that they provided the required strength for the type of airfoils used . As high strength materials became available , this mattered less and the aerodynamic disadvantage of the biplane ( and triplane ) designs came into fore . The aerodynamic advantage of the monoplane along with improvements in materials used has made the monoplane the de-facto standard except for certain specialised applications ( like low speed aerobatics )
Yes , absolutely . The skin transfers shear stresses between the <URL> which run lengthwise along the fuselage and transmit tensile or compressive stress . Cutouts and openings ( for doors and windows ) need special local reinforcements , so the reduced structure can still withstand the loads . Equally , the wing skin is the main element for the transmission of torsional loads . In today 's airliners , the spar is part of the skin , but the wing skin ahead and aft of it is also a part of the primary structure . Generally , stress follows stiffness . When a structure is loaded , it will deform , and those parts which withstand deformation most will carry most of the load . In the end , all parts which have similar stiffness will carry loads in proportion to their cross section . Since most of an airliner 's structure is made from aluminum , it has the same stiffness . See <URL> for one example clearly showing fuselage skin deformation .
Are there any still commercial airplanes in use that are still steerable with complete loss of all electric systems ? Do some commercial airplanes still have mechanical backup steering mechanisms ? <URL> On most ( * ) Airbus aircrafts , In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . This is called and is the lowest level of control law ( after Normal , Alternate and Direct Laws ) The aircraft can be steered : Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . The pilots are notified with : A red MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY warning appears on the PFD . But : Both controls require hydraulic power . This means that if the aircraft looses BOTH electrical and hydraulic power , is no more controllable . Usually there are pressurised hydraulic reservoirs that allow to have a minimum of hydraulic power even if there is total loss of electrical power , but if there is substantial damage to the aircraft that has severed the hydraulic lines , this is no more applicable . ( * ) : beyond the A320 . Functionalities vary in <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) Primary Flight controls : Back-up Control Logical evolution of A320 / A340 / A340-600 family : Full Fly-By-Wire , with a " Back-up " as an additional precaution to keep control of the aircraft during temporary loss of : all Primary Flight Control computers all Electrical power supply A320 : full FBW controls , mechanical Back-up ( Pitch Trim &amp; Rudder ) A340/A330 : like A320 , additional Yaw Damper to improve Dutch Roll damping even in Back-up mode ( BYDU with hydraulic micro generator ) A340-600 : like A340 for pitch , Rudder becomes fully Electrical ( BPS + BCM : Back-up Power Supply + Control Module ) A380 : like A340-600 for Yaw control + BPS+BCM also power : Electrical Pitch Back-Up ( elevators ) linked to side-stick Electrical Roll Back-Up ( ailerons ) linked to side-stick Pitch Trim ( Wheel is replaced by Switches ) For the A380 , in particular : Active Stability Control functions : All levels of control laws ( Normal , Alternate , " Direct " and even Back-up ) include a Yaw and Pitch damping function
I am assuming from your description this is not a permanent part of the aircraft and is just an instrument that will be brought on board . The DO-254 's cited by Porcupine above are authorized under FAR 25.1309 which is only for permanent equipment that are an integral part of the aircraft design , not cargo items . In general , there are no FAA regulations about that kind of equipment , other than hazardous cargo materials ( flammables , lithium batteries , etc ) . Even radios and RF emitters are ok , if the airline company and pilot agree to it . Flight crews sometimes bring their own personal radios on board as backups , for example . The policy about bringing something like this aboard would largely depend on the owner/operator and one might have completely different requirements or reaction than another . Your best bet would be to contact the operator ( airline company ) you want to work with and ask them what their requirements are .
Most important factor affecting drag is frontal area . Almost all frontal area of the engine pod is the intake and it has to have the size it does to collect the air the engine needs . So there is not so much drag to be saved . Beside that , embedding the engine in wing roots like <URL> did has many disadvantages , most of which also apply to the central engine of three-engined jets ( B727 , DC-10 ) : The wing root carries the weight of the aircraft , so weakening it by embedding the engine is design and construction complication . Access for maintenance is difficult . Engines need a lot of maintenance and sometimes need to be replaced . Uncontained failure is more dangerous ( see <URL> ) . There is not much structure to damp vibration , so it is awfully noisy . And last but not least , modern high-bypass turbofans are huge . They would not fit in the wing anyway . And reasons for not attaching the engines directly to the fuselage or wing are already mentined in <URL> . Mainly , the inlet needs : Free space around it from which it can draw air at slow speed . Free space around it to which it can spill the excess air at high speed . And the engines mounted forward of wing actually improve the distribution of cross-sectional area according to the <URL> .
A few thoughts : The British Airways Concordes only operated <URL> on the London Heathrow - New York JFK route . This implies this is the route under the most competition . There has been enough pressure on this route even after the demise of the Concorde for several companies ( as well as BA ) to try business-only services on this route . By experience , changing flights is never quick in the US since you need to go through customs and add time margin to ensure you make the connection ( Think three hours connection time on the ground ) . I think even before the current security state you 'd rather have taken a direct flight than change from a Concorde to a domestic flight if possible . I do n't think the charter destinations would have caused much impact on other airline operations .
Wings are static . The wings do not move in response to emergency door opening . There is no requirement regarding position of flaps , in most cases involving an emergency evacuation after landing , flaps are likely to be extended , but I do n't think this is guaranteed . Evacuation assistance On commercial transport aircraft , there are marked routes on the wing for passengers and , if the exit point is more than 6ft from the ground , there are self-inflating slides that allow passengers to reach the ground . <URL> Image from <URL> Evacuation on water The inflated slides also work as life-rafts in the event that the aircraft comes to rest in water and has to be evacuated . Generally this applies only to slides at main exits , over-wing exits have slides that are not designed to be used in this way . <URL> <URL> Regulations The <URL> say Each passenger-carrying landplane emergency exit ( other than over-the-wing ) that is more that 6 feet from the ground with the airplane on the ground and the landing gear extended must have an approved means to assist the occupants in descending to the ground . The manufacturer must demonstrate that they can evacuate all passengers and crew to the ground within 90 seconds using only half the emergency exits . This applies to aircraft capable of carrying more than 44 passengers . Variations in arrangements by aircraft Not all aircraft need overwing exits and slides . Here are some B757 variants <URL> <URL> <URL> From <URL> Boeing 737 As commenters have noted , the 737 does not have self-inflating slides for its over-wing exits . <URL> <URL> The 737 system does not always work very well Passengers climbed onto both wings , which were slippery due to the rain , but were able to see the markings indicating the direction of movement . It was difficult to see the ground in the dark and some passengers were not aware that they should slide down the flap surfaces . Others expected to find an escape slide . On the left wing , some passengers slid down onto the ground and assisted others . On the right wing , fewer people slid down to the ground , while others re‑entered the cabin and exited it using door escape slides when it was apparent that there were no visible signs of danger . - from <URL>
<URL> Frankfurt Airport ; a mosaic of concrete and asphalt The runways at Frankfurt Airport are asphalt ( old satellite imagery shows that they were concrete before ) , and the airport handles plenty of Superjumbos , the Airbus A380 , so it 's not a matter of handling heavy planes . All runways in big airports , even those covered in asphalt , have reinforced concrete foundations that vary in depth . They 're deepest where the touchdown zones are located , shallower elsewhere . That 's why runway extensions usually just add extra takeoff distance , but the landing zones remain the same , creating a <URL> . <URL> Displaced threshold ; can exist for other reasons <URL> Zoom in You 'll see almost all the parking spots and holding areas for the runways are concrete , as well as the runway exits . This is where a plane is expected to be stationary . Concrete handles such stationary loads pretty well , while on a warm day the asphalt would deform . Asphalt is called a flexible surface ; concrete is called a rigid surface . <URL> ( PCN ) is a standard used in combination with the <URL> ( ACN ) to indicate the strength of a runway , taxiway , or apron ( ramp ) . Exposed concrete is notorious for cracking when exposed to extreme high and low temperatures . It 's also more expensive to install and repair . But overall can be cheaper to install if you 're already laying down concrete elsewhere , like most new airports , they just go for concrete everywhere , but it depends on where that new airport is located -- <URL> Hot Dubai ; asphalt almost everywhere except parking areas and hold short areas <URL> LAX ; good climate and budget ; concrete almost everywhere a plane touches The variables come down to climate , use , load , budget , job creation , maintenance , etc. . <URL> A single runway ( like at <URL> ) can also have both surfaces <URL> <URL> showing the PCN for all runways ; Flexible and Rigid <URL> ( <URL> ) Another point in favor of an asphalt runway , is that it 's more gentle on the tires during touchdown ( since it 's flexible ) . You can find runway data at <URL> for US airports , elsewhere you 'll need to check the airport 's <URL> , like <URL> for Amsterdam ; check the section 2.12 RUNWAY PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS . Or try searching for a nonofficial runway data repository , there could be one .
Your question appears to assume that thrust reversers are an acceptable way of keeping an aircraft from sliding off a slippery runway . While this may be true in rare cases , generally speaking you would NOT want to use reverse thrust to avoid skidding off a runway as that typically would exacerbate the problem . Consider the following scenario : you have an icy runway and a strong crosswind from the right . As you start the takeoff roll , the airplane begins drifting left . You apply right rudder to correct , and the aircraft heading moves to the right of the runway direction . If you resolve the engines thrust vector into it 's components relative to the runway centerline , you have most of the thrust propelling you down the runway , a much lesser amount propelling you toward the right side of the runway . Lets say the left drift continues in spite of the engine thrust vector driving the aircraft to the right side of the runway , and you decide to abort the takeoff using reverse thrust . Thus , the thrust vector relative to the runway centerline will slow the aircraft . However the thrust vector 90 & deg ; to the runway centerline will be toward the left side of the runway , which when added to your leftward drift will likely put you off the left side of the runway . If you Google " tower air 747 crash " you 'll see a number of entries concerning just such a scenario and the result . I found <URL> to be the most instructive , although I do not wholly agree with the conclusions or with the narrative of what happened ( a friend of mine was in the jumpseat right behind the captain , and I flew as a f.o. with that captain ) . An obvious answer to your question is to never get yourself into such a serious situation . Can you wait for better conditions ? Is another runway available ? But if you MUST use a slippery runway for either takeoff or landing ( or have already foolishly committed yourself ) , remember that if a runway is that slippery , it 's feasible to continue down the runway in a manner that your course ( the runway direction ) does n't match your heading . If the captain of the Tower Air flight had elected to do that , he might not have had the accident he did , or he might have had a much more serious accident . Tough call !
For the first half century of manned flight , landing gears overwhelmingly had only a single , large wheel per leg . This was the cheapest and simplest way to ensure ground mobility , but ran into trouble when aircraft grew in size . When the XB-36 prototype started testing in 1946 , <URL> were able to tolerate the 156 psi pressure of its single main wheels . For operating from unprepared surfaces , tracked gears were the straightforward transfer from tank experience to landing gear design . <URL> Tracked main gear on the XB-36 prototype ( picture <URL> ) However , another route which was tried at about the same time was to increase the number of wheels the aircraft rests upon . With hindsight , the multi-wheel way was the better solution and has prevailed . When used with large , <URL> it does <URL> than a tracked gear . Some early and rather extreme examples for the multi-wheel route include the <URL> four-engine tactical transport aircraft . Only 20 were produced , however . <URL> Arado 232 from up close . No prize for guessing why it had the nickname " Tausendfüssler " ( millipede ) ( picture <URL> ) . When it comes to designing large aircraft for soft field operations , the Ukrainian design bureau Antonov has unsurpassed experience . This comes to bear in the landing gear of the <URL> , shown below ( <URL> ) . When you have 24 wheels to spread the load out , even 400 tons might not be too heavy , especially when the tire pressure can be adjusted from the cockpit . <URL> An-124 in a botched landing . No worry , the gear will tolerate this kind of abuse , too . Therefore , the research on tracked gears has come to an end shortly after it begun , and even the B-36 ended its days on a four-wheel bogie . Today , every large airplane has at least two wheels per leg for redundancy and <URL> .
end question
start question
How many miles before the runway should an airliner put the gear down ?
To answer the last part of your question , as ratchet freak said , the TCAS does n't warn the pilot when he should deploy landing gear . However , <URL> does . <URL> is " Unsafe Terrain Clearance With Landing Gear Not Down " . If the plane is less than 700ft ( based on the radio altimeter 's measure ) high and under mach .35 , there is an aural alert in the cockpit saying " Too low - gear " . The message is repeated until the situation is corrected . So the warning is based on the height and speed of the aircraft . Not on its distance to the airport .
The short answer is extensive testing and backup/manual over ride systems . In reality there is not a whole lot that can go wrong , landing gear systems are fairly simple in design . This varies a bit by airframe but most landing gear systems are pretty much the same . Basically every aircraft out there , from a single engine Piper Retract all the way up through a 747 has some form of manual gear over ride system . <URL> So basically if the main system fails ( and it happens ) they have some kind of manual over ride to force the gear down . Granted there can be cases where the manual over ride also does not bring the gear down but you can only be so redundant . Some gear is also held in place positively , in other words there is pressure on the system holding it up so that should the hydrolics fail you dont need the pressure to get the gear down . Often the gear is oriented so that gravity and aerodynamics can deploy it . Fixed gear is generally not a great idea on anything bigger than a small trainer . Fixed gear adds drag at the cost of a simpler airplane . <URL> I dont think lighter gear is something they are looking into to solve the gear deploy issue . Generally speaking you want the gear to fall down in the event of a failure so a little extra weight is not the end of the world .
Yes . What allows you as a pilot to fly large aircraft ( legally under the FAA ) is a <URL> . As long as the two Captains hold proper type ratings for the aircraft they suffice for the required two crew members needed to fly the plane . However one of the two of them will be performing the duties of the first officer and that should be decided prior to the flight . First Officer and Captain are rankings given by the airline not any governing body . Both the FO and Captain cary the type cert required to fly the aircraft ( as far as I know ) . The limited ( and quickly dwindling ) exception to this is aircraft that require a crew of 3 where the third is a flight engineer . The <URL> does hold its own certification .
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
This depends on the aircraft : DC9 , MD80 , B727 , B737 On some ( especially older model ) aircraft doors such as the Boeing 737 for instance this is directly dangerous , since the slide is attached on the inside by hand with the means of a girt bar to the aircraft . There is hence no way to open the door without the slide going off should it be armed . There is a helpful notice in red on the outside to " stand clear " when the red banner is crosses the window , the indication that it is armed . Judging by the space required and force the doors have , this is still most probably very dangerous idea that should not be used unless absolutely necessary . <URL> Airbus , B757 , B767 , B777 , MD11 , E-Jets On more modern aircraft , this is safe : opening the door externally will push the arm handle to the disarmed position before proceeding to open it . This is for instance the case on all Airbus aircraft . <URL> provides a nice example .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
I am neither builder nor airport manager and ca n't provide details , but as there is no answer yet , I 'll try to summarize the main differences between the materials : Concrete can support highest loads and lasts long . It is however most expensive to build and when it eventually gets damaged , it ca n't be patched and has to be rebuilt in large slabs . It also requires stable base , because it is rigid . It is built in slabs with spaces between them that are required due to account for thermal expansions and give somewhat bouncy ride . Asphalt . There is a big variation between different kinds of asphalt concrete , but it is generally cheaper than concrete , but ca n't support as big loads and is susceptible to damage by frost . Asphalt is never completely rigid and slowly deforms under load . This allows using it on unstable base , but it means bumps form by prolonged use reducing the total lifetime . It also easily cracks and when water freezes in the cracks , potholes quickly form . They can however be relatively easily patched . It does not require any thermal expansion gaps and provides smooth ride . Asphalt and concrete can be combined . A concrete with a layer of asphalt on top provides the strength of concrete and smooth ride of asphalt . The asphalt also protects the concrete base from freezing water while itself can be easily patched . This is lately common on roads ( where concrete alone is really uncomfortable ) , not sure how much on runways . Gravel is simple to build ; all you need is some stone from nearby quarry and a steamroller . The main disadvantages are risk of foreign object damage by loose stones thrown up by the wheels and need of regular maintenance . So it is used mainly in remote cold places where concrete would be too expensive and asphalt would not last long in prevailing weather conditions . Rolled earth with or without grass is even simpler then gravel , used for small airports where big loads are not needed . When runway is listed as grass , it means it is not even rolled . Usually enough for small airplanes and obviously cheapest . Other surfaces usually as provided by local conditions ( snow , salt etc. ) For every particular airport , the investor evaluates the available technologies whether they can handle the expected traffic ( to handle large jets like 747 or A380 concrete or concrete-asphalt combination is preferred ) , whether they are buildable in given location ( the ground has to support the weight too ) and how much building them will cost and choose the option that satisfies the requirements and they have money for .
There are two main geometrical characteristics that affect the airflow in the situation mentioned . From one side you have a cylinder with wheels at the end ; on the other side during the transition you have an open cavity . Let 's talk about the first one . You actually have a cylinder flying perpendicular to the air speed . This is kind of canonical problem in fluid dynamics , there is a lot of literature about this problem , but to explain the effect I would like to take a simple example that I took from the website , the infinite 2D cylinder . For that , I include this picture of flow over a cylinder : Note for fluid dynamics experts : This is not relevant if Reynolds Number ( Re ) is around 10,000 , but for understanding the concept is good enough . So , imagine that we are cutting landing gear perpendicular to its length and we visualize the flow . What do we see ? Two main things ... Looking at the flow lines , they are almost not affected at 3-4 diameters of distance from the cylinder perpendicular to the flow direction there is a very local influence of the existence of the landing gear . However we see that down the flow there is a big influence with the creation of chaotic structures . That is creating a big increase in drag downstream of the landing gear and any surface behind . Basically ... low influence on the red direction and significant influence on blue . Answering your question , influences the wing in a local area . The influence anyhow is negative on the lift , as the flow is accelerated locally , reducing the static pressure below the wing , having a lift reduction , but is a local effect . This also have an influence on the wing lift distribution and a small effect on drag ... lower than the one directly produced by the landing gear itself . Now ... the cavities , they have a bigger influence , firstly because they have bigger extension parallel to the airplane surface ( the landing gear goes perpendicular to the airplane the cavity goes along the surface ) . Secondly , their flow behaviour is different , goes in and outside the cavity . I found this <URL> very good on this , but basically the flow behaviour is like these image : I found several flows similar to the second one , but depends on the airplane . You can see that flow will enter and go outside and will have a big influence . Finally , the biggest influence is found when the airplane is deploying or retracting the landing gears when you have changing conditions , difficult to predict and affecting the airplane dynamics . Usually you can notice it when landing or taking off , when landing gear is deployed you fell significant vibration on the airplane . Concerning your questions : How does the landing gear affect aerodynamics when deployed and when deploying ? There is a significant drag increase , slightly the lift , but also creates some unsteady behaviour affecting overall airplane mechanics creating vibrations ( anyhow , nothing not already taken into account ) . Is it different for aircraft whose landing gear do not retract into the wing ? I understand that you refer to airplane with non retractable landing gear . The effect is similar but usually the configuration tries to avoid having the landing gear close to the wing , as finally they do n't need to retract them back . Does this modify performance critical when taking off or landing such as stall speed , optimal climb speed ? Well , stall speed is usually defined by wing lift curve , and not so much affected by the landing gear . Usually the limitation is on the upper side due to separation . Climb speed is basically engine thrust minus drag , the drag increases the climb speed is lower . That 's why airplanes retract the landing gear as soon as possible .
There is indeed such a system installed at some airports . It is called an <URL> . Incidents such as <URL> have shown the potential safety issues of runway overruns , as you have pointed out . The EMAS solution uses a pad of special material at the end of the runway , designed to allow landing gear to sink into the material . The landing gear is not ripped off , but as the gear travels through the material , the plane is slowed down . Destroying the gear is not a desirable option . Although the gear on airliners is designed to safely separate from the aircraft , there is still the potential for damaging fuel tanks or other structure . The aircraft will also be even less controllable after the loss of landing gear . If a small aircraft is not going very fast , a small wall could cause it to flip over , worsening the situation . In the crash you referenced , the aircraft was traveling very fast at the end of the runway , and an EMAS may not have been sufficient to stop the plane . An EMAS typically has a max entry speed of <URL> , so in incidents like the one linked from the question , this kind of system may not completely prevent a fatal incident . Since the aircraft 's gear must break through the material , lighter aircraft may not be stopped as effectively . However , <URL> with such a system . <URL> <URL> at places where these systems could be useful , with a focus on runways that can not have the recommended 1,000 foot safety area at the end . The runway safety area ( RSA ) is the best option for a safety buffer at the end of a runway , providing extra distance for an aircraft to stop . The article above notes that the EMAS at Burbank airport took $ 4 million to install , and that is a fairly small airport that does n't usually see anything larger than a 737 . Any overrun will incur certain recovery costs , but an EMAS will need to be repaired after any overrun or accidental damage , possibly closing the runway , and will be less effective until repairs are completed . Airports must weigh all of their options for providing a safe facility .
You 're correct that there are two ways to connect the tug with an aircraft . In case a tow bar is used , it is fixed laterally at the nose landing gear , while allowing slight movement for height adjustment . Usually , the tow bar may pivot freely laterally and vertically at the end that attaches to the tug rather than the aircraft end , which is fixed . The following image shows the tow bar attachment point in Airbus A380 . <URL> Image from alamy.com . The attachment points differ from aircraft to aircraft , so the tow bar basically operates as an adapter between the aircraft and the tug . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . When using a towbarless tug , the nose wheel is simply scooped off the ground using hydraulic ( for large aircraft ) or electric power . The tug has a movable arm , which is opened and the tug is moved and placed so that the nose wheel fits inside the fixed arms of the tug . The movable arm is then closed . The movable arm and the opposite side has sloping edges , over which the wheels slide and the nose is lifted off as the arm closes due to hydraulic power . This video shows how its done in case of Airbus A380 . Video from Youtube : How to lift up the world 's largest commercial aircraft the Airbus A380 . by user Kasavubu The nose wheel dimensions and aircraft weight do matter and tugs are certified for different ramp weights .
The slide has to be removed from the aircraft completely ( generally ) and sent back to it 's manufacturer to be inspected and repacked , but yes , it can be reused . <URL> As a far as " how many times " , I would assume until it breaks ;) . Though honestly , I doubt a slide would ever be deployed more than once , maybe twice in it 's life span .
I reached out to the <URL> and asked this question . To my surprise , I got an answer back in less than 12 hours . As of December 31 , 2014 , they report : 219 private pilots 951 commercial pilots 4007 ATPL holders 20 MCPL holders For a total of 5197 pilots licensed in Hong Kong .
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
Most of the airline doors are <URL> - i.e. they are wedge shaped , so that the pressure differential pushes it against the fuselage and prevents opening . For example , the following image shows the Boeing 737 door . <URL> Image from <URL> Note that the door is bigger on the inside , so that when it is locked in position , the pressure will push it against the fusealge , preventing it from opening . For opening the door , it has to be swung inwards before moving out .
There is no restriction on the number , type of aircraft , or pilots for a " Full 135 Operator . " There are 4 levels of 135 operators : Single-Pilot Operator Single Pilot-in-Command Basic 135 Operator Full 135 Operator * Source : <URL>
There are 2 fuel pumps on the Diamond DA20 . One is electric and is controlled by the pilot and one is mechanically driven by the engine and is constantly running while the engine is running . After take off , you switch the electric one off and the mechanical one keeps supplying the engine with fuel . <URL>
There is one frequency per sector and there can be two controllers per sector , one working the scope / talking to aircraft and one assisting with flight strips and coordination with adjacent sectors . If the sector does not require a second controller to coordinate and assist with flight strips , there will only be one controller doing all tasks single-handedly . In some cases , two sectors are combined and both frequencies are manned by the same controller , but this is only done in low-traffic times , where overlapping transmissions have a low probability . A good and well-written source to understand how ATC sectors and split workload works is the AVWeb Series of <URL> . See this related question for more information : <URL>
How is this high amount of air traffic managed ? Air traffic is managed at many levels by many people and is heavily dependent on the airports specifics when it comes to GA. . First off not every airplane in the sky is talking to or under control of ATC , for that mater in some airspaces you do n't even need a radio on board . The following is pursuant to US FAA regulations , other countries may handle air traffic differently . The first level of traffic management is the pilot , its the job of every pilot to " <URL> " other traffic , this goes for both commercial and general aviation traffic . Even if issued a command by ATC you can deviate to avoid an emergency ( i.e. hitting another plane ) . The next level of traffic management is the various FAA regulations on both ground and air flight operations . These regulations ( like traffic rules ) are laws and must be followed . They are designed to mitigate traffic in certain areas and will also force you in some areas to at least be on the radio with ATC ( e.g. class B airspace ) . You can read up on the <URL> and you will find most of what you are looking for under " flight rules " . Much of the country ( below 18,000 Ft and above 1200ft generally ) is actually class E airspace which does not require ATC communications . This is where most GA traffic lives although small turbo props and the boldest of piston singles can now make it into the levels , most GA planes cant . There are also pre set cruising altitude intervals for VFR and IFR traffic to help keep separation . Above that you will have ATC who is controlling all <URL> , traffic in <URL> and will provide limited radar services to VFR traffic when load permits . When flying under <URL> ( depending on where you are ) you may not need to ever talk to ATC . It is possible to depart an un-towered airport in class G or E airspace , fly around and return with out ever having contacted an ATC facility . On the ground control depends on the airport . At an <URL> ( lots of smaller general aviation airports ) the pilots decide . Taxing around is much like driving a car and there are pre determined radio calls to enter the traffic pattern and use the active runway . At a <URL> ground control will monitor and control the flow of traffic on the ramp and the tower will control the traffic from the runway thresholds until the plane departs its airspace . The only exceptions to the rules here in the US are 5 airports ( LaGuardia , Newark , O'Hare , Ronald Reagan National , and John F. Kennedy ) which are <URL> ( specific to the airports ) generally speaking the operations are the same in terms of how ATC will handle a given aircraft but departures and arrivals are limited and must be reserved ahead of time . Another note on IFR operations , ATC will treat all planes the same and will only give priority to a plane in an emergency . Your little Cessna 172 on an IFR flight will receive the same services as a 747 30,000 ft above you . Do they have an separate air traffic controller ? No . See above but for what its worth the big planes contact the same ATC facilities as the little guys . Spruce Creek For what its worth Spruce Creek sits under a Class C shelf as you can see on the sectional here . <URL> Departing from RW 5 and staying below 1200 puts you right between the Daytona Class C and New Smyrna Beach Class D so you may find your self contacting ATC on departure depending on your route you are somewhat boxed in there . Even departing from 23 you may find your self contacting Daytona approach to punch into the Class C there . Technically you can get out of there with out contacting ATC but you may find your self needing to depending on the situation .
One of the suggested communication strategies for uncontrolled airports is to announce the type of aircraft and color . e.g. " Brown and white Cherokee entering downwind " . Rather than using your initials , which like the tail number , do n't really give any information , why not use your color or some distinguishing feature . e.g " Red tricycle ultralight " or " Blue weight-shift ultralight " . Anyone out there would have a better chance of knowing what to look for and seeing and avoiding you .
end question
start question
Is Electronic Flight Bag ( EFB ) any different from our day-to-day tablet ?
The FAA ( unsurprisingly ) has definitions of different types of Electronic Flight Bag ( EFB ) systems , which you can find in <URL> . It 's targeted at airlines , but the concepts are generally applicable . They break them down into Class 1 , Class 2 , and Class 3 EFBs , and the answer is a little different for the different classes : Class 1 EFB Hardware . This is what most of us General Aviation Folks use : A portable computer or tablet considered " portable electronic devices " with no specific FAA approvals . Per the FAA a Class 1 EFB ca n't be " mounted to the aircraft " or connected to the aircraft systems or a dedicated power supply ( i.e. they ca n't be permanently wired into anything ) , but you can plug them in to an " existing aircraft power supply " ( like the cigarette lighter port ) for battery recharging . This is what most of us GA folks are using - an iPad with Foreflight and Stratus is technically a " Class 1 EFB " . This is just a regular computer , so it can in fact be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on ( though if you 're using it in an airline environment they 've probably locked it down and restricted what you can do : Plants vs Zombies is probably not available in the cockpit of your Southwest flight ) . Class 2 EFB Hardware . Class 2 EFBs are essentially Class 1 EFBs that get mounted to the aircraft , but can be easily removed by the flight crew ( for example a GPS or iPad in a panel-mounted cradle ) and may connect to aircraft data systems via cables or wireless connections ( for example Garmin 's Flightstream system ) . Class 2 EFBs have the same battery-charging provision as Class 1 EFBs , but ca n't be directly wired into aircraft power . As far as the FAA is concerned they 're still " portable electronic devices " . This is what the more advanced bits of GA are using - An iPad with Garmin Pilot communicating with your GTN stack via flightstream to get its GPS position &amp; transfer flight plans . Again this can be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on , but the operator may have locked it down to keep their crews from flying past their destination <URL> . Class 3 EFB Hardware . Class 3 EFBs are installed systems with FAA approvals ( for type-certificated aircraft ) . The chart data stored on e.g. a GTN650 or GMX200 with charts and plates loaded on it would qualify here , as would flight management systems on larger aircraft . Generally you wo n't be playing Plants vs Zombies on Class 3 EFB hardware because the approvals for it would n't include that capability . The exception here is the Experimental Aircraft community : Such aircraft may have a consumer tablet installed in the panel and wired into ship 's power in such a way as to qualify for all practical purposes as a " Class 3 EFB " , and it 's possible you could play Plants vs Zombies on your installed iPad in such an aircraft .
Actually , a commercial airliner can do almost any set of legs , assuming those are technically possible ( range/payload/laws like ETOPS ... ) But the main fact that make it possible is demand . If you run an airline , you wo n't make routes that do n't have demand to make profit . Aviation is a complex world . To make profit , you have to consider a massive load of parameters . You ca n't for example position complete set of crew in every city/airport hotel of your airline routes then decide to create fantasy flights " a la carte " . Crews ca n't fly continuously aswell , so you ca n't put crew in a 737 and make them non-stop flights around the country an entire week . One main thing you have to keep in mind : It 's not one or several persons who decide " I want to build an airline with X aircraft on Y routes " . It 's one A-B route that decide how many passengers are available on , then , an airline has the opportunity to operate that route ( and struggle to negociate all the authorizations ) Here are some hints about how airliners deals with their environment around the world : What kind of flights does the airliner , and what airframes does it have in its fleet ? An airliner can start with one single aircraft , says a DHC6 Twin Otter , and makes regular flights between two airports in the middle of the ocean . You can have 10 , 15 , maybe 20 round trip a day , some well after sunset . An airliner can have half a dozen ATR or Dash 8 , and a set of routes with the proper demand . You can have routes like hub-A-hub , hub-B-hub , when the demand is enough to make each flight profitable . Sometimes , you ca n't have enough passenger a day on each route , so the airliner makes hub-A-B-C-D-hub the day one , then hub-D-C-B-A-hub on day two , and cycle the sets ... An airliner with dozens of ( the same ) aircraft ( 737 or A32x ) can either have the same round trip hub-X-hub destinations every day , several times a day , airlines like Air France , Southwest , Lufthansa , Air China ... or the same fleet , but much more destinations operated two or three times a week : hub-A-B-hub , hub-C-D-E-hub , hub-F-G-H-nightstop-G-F-hub ... like Angola Airlines ( domestic and regional ) Long range flights ( 7 hours or more ) requires the appropriate aircraft . If your airline can buy/lease such an airliner , the route hub-destination-hub can be operated in the limits of the demand . When the demand is enough to fill the plane along the week , then go ahead . Otherwise , the airline has to decide wether a ) leave the plane on the tarmac , b ) find a nearby complementary route : hub-A-B-hub , hub-B-A-hub , c ) use a smaller and cheaper aircraft ( if the crew is qualified on ) d ) combine destination A with a complementary destination B that fills schedules along the week ( or bi-week ) hub-A-hub-B-hub , e ) replace the route with one better , f ) negociate with one or several airliners to sell seats to them to fill the aircraft , g ) negociate with one or several airliners operating on the destination airport to take advantage of the hubbing : make your airline land at the destination during rush hours . Very long range flights ca n't be operated every day with one single aircraft . And very long range flights are a niche : the hours spent in that closed tube discourage passengers from taking such flights . And very long range flights are a hell to schedule : the aircraft does 3 or 4 flights a week , and stays on the tarmac the rest of the time . The size of the airline : If your airline is a big one , like British Airways or Japan Airlines or United , your reputation and historical operation is enough to get demand on most usual routes ( and your staff has the expertise to select profitable ones ) Most of your flights will be the type " hub-X-hub " , either domestic , regional , or international . If your airline is above average ( like Kenya Airways , Aeromexico , Air India ) you 'll have a mix of " hub-X-hub " flights and some complementary legs to fix schedules and aircraft operation ratio : hub-A-B ( - C ) - Hub If your airline is below average ( Blue Panorama , Air Kazakstan , Belavia ) chances are great to have charter flights , multiple flight shifts . . Timetables greatly vary from one year to another . Small airlines like Air Austral , Republic Express ( Indonesia ) , Insel Air will have historical regular flights , but most of them will be of type " hub-A-B-hub " and/or " hub-A-C-E-C-B-hub " . Timetables also vary from one year to another , but at a less rate than above because the airline do n't have enough aircraft to think of new or better routes to operate , as the ones available can not be closed or replaced . The region of operation - the airport statistics ( passenger volume per year ) : There are regions of high frequency of flights : Western Europe , United States , Japan , South-East Asia , Eastern Australia , the Dubai-Europe axis ... In those regions , you have several hundreds of round trip routes that can be operated ten times a day using a Boeing 747 . Cheap flights , historical demand , dynamic business . You can operate flights of type " hu
I am assuming from your description this is not a permanent part of the aircraft and is just an instrument that will be brought on board . The DO-254 's cited by Porcupine above are authorized under FAR 25.1309 which is only for permanent equipment that are an integral part of the aircraft design , not cargo items . In general , there are no FAA regulations about that kind of equipment , other than hazardous cargo materials ( flammables , lithium batteries , etc ) . Even radios and RF emitters are ok , if the airline company and pilot agree to it . Flight crews sometimes bring their own personal radios on board as backups , for example . The policy about bringing something like this aboard would largely depend on the owner/operator and one might have completely different requirements or reaction than another . Your best bet would be to contact the operator ( airline company ) you want to work with and ask them what their requirements are .
There is a ( relatively ) new requirement for Flight Attendants ( on aircraft with more than 20 passenger seats ) to be certified as per the FAA . This was done in the <URL> , in section 814 if you want to read it . The applicable CFR is <URL> . In summary it says : You have to have a certificate of demonstrated proficiency , this looks like a pilots license . Demonstrated compliance with the air carrier approved training program . Proficiency to read , speak , and write English Comprehend written material in English Ability to write incident reports and log entries/statements Carry out written and oral instructions Now , the actual physical requirements are up to the airline , as long as the individual can complete the training program , they are physically allowed to become a flight attendant ( physical appearance requirements aside ) . As for " legally " allowed , they need to be able to pass the same TSA background checks that pilots are subject to . So legally , almost all airlines require : U.S. Citizen or appropriate work visa Be able to enter/exit the United States without any issues ( no visa problems with other countries , although for regionals this may not apply ) Be able to pass a TSA/FBI background check No DUI or felony convictions within the past 10 years There is n't a lot more " legal " to it than that , they do n't have to demonstrate the use of safety equipment if the airline 's training program does n't require it .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
The ignition requirements are pretty straight-forward : <URL> ( a ) Each battery ignition system must be supplemented by a generator that is automatically available as an alternate source of electrical energy to allow continued engine operation if any battery becomes depleted . ( b ) The capacity of batteries and generators must be large enough to meet the simultaneous demands of the engine ignition system and the greatest demands of any electrical system components that draw from the same source . ( c ) The design of the engine ignition system must account for -- ( 1 ) The condition of an inoperative generator ; ( 2 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator running at its normal operating speed ; and ( 3 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator operating at idling speed , if there is only one battery . ( d ) There must be means to warn appropriate crewmembers if malfunctioning of any part of the electrical system is causing the continuous discharge of any battery used for engine ignition . ( e ) Each turbine engine ignition system must be independent of any electrical circuit that is not used for assisting , controlling , or analyzing the operation of that system . ( f ) In addition , for commuter category airplanes , each turbine engine ignition system must be an essential electrical load .
Day and Night for Pilots As pilots we often talk about night flying and daytime flying meaning when it is dark or light , but for logging time and for currency there are specific definitions that we must pay attention to . FAR 1.1 General Definitions Night means the time between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , as published by the American Air Almanac , converted to local time . Day is not defined in the FARs but the definition of night implies that it is the time between the beginning of morning civil twilight and the end of evening civil twilight . The Air Almanac is published annually on CD-ROM but you can find sunset , sunrise , and civil twilight times for specific locations at the US Naval Observatory website . The time between sunrise/sunset and twilight is 26-30 minutes depending on the time of year . Since you can easily find sunrise/sunset information in newspapers , the weather channel , etc. you can estimate twilight fairly easily . Currency § 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ... no person may act as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers during the period beginning 1 hour after sunset and ending 1 hour before sunrise , unless within the preceding 90 days that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop during the period beginning 1 hour after sunset and ending 1 hour before sunrise , and ... VFR Weather Minimums Only Class G airspace has different minimums depending on night and day and they use the standard night definition -- end of evening twilight to the beginning of morning twilight . Aircraft Lights Aircraft lighting is required between sunset and sunrise . § 91.209 During the period between sunset and sunrise no person may 1 . operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights , 2 . park or move an aircraft in an area of an airport where night operations are being conducted unless it is clearly illuminated , has position lights , or is in an area marked by obstruction lights . Aeronautical Experience Requirement In order to obtain a private pilot certificate night training is required . The commercial pilot certificate requires solo night flights . In these cases the standard night definition -- end of evening twilight to the beginning of morning twilight -- applies . Special VFR AIM 4-4-6 g. Special VFR operations are prohibited between sunset and sunrise unless the pilot is instrument rated and the aircraft equipped for IFR flight . Logging Night Flying Time Logging of night flight should be made in accordance with Part 1 definitions , which is from the end of evening civil twilight to the start of morning civil twilight . This differs from the definition used for night currency . Summary Position lights -- sunset to sunrise Special VFR -- sunrise to sunset unless instrument rated Carry Passengers -- 1 hour after sunset to 1 hour before Everything else -- twilight to twilight
Easyjet has no firm weight limit and advertises this fact . From <URL> There 's no weight restriction for cabin baggage , as long as you can place and retrieve the cabin bag safely in the overhead lockers without assistance . They also use vague language like " within reason " or " lift comfortably " but most people probably wo n't have 20 kg with them . Given the limited size of cabin luggage , you would need to deliberately carry dense , heavy stuff to reach that weight ( books maybe ? wine bottles and other liquids are off-limits and if you do n't want to check in any bag you still need space for your other things ) . And then , comes this ( from the BA website you mentioned ) : Occasionally we may not have space to stow all hand baggage safely on board and you may be asked to check in some or all of your hand baggage at the boarding gate . Bottom line : Airlines do n't need to rely on a prespecified weight limit at all . They rely on the size restrictions and general common sense to keep things manageable and if it somehow does not work out , they can always gate check a few bags .
There are actually quite a few reasons to fly an instrument approach , especially one with vertical guidance ( like an ILS ) , even if the weather does n't require it : It serves as a backup to the visual approach . There are various visual illusions that can cause a pilot to fly an approach too high or too low and monitoring the vertical guidance can help to mitigate those . It helps to ensure that you land on the correct runway , and even at the correct airport . ( Unlike <URL> . ) ATC uses it when pilots do not have the airport or runway in sight . This happens quite frequently at large airports where they have to line many aircraft up on final . The last guy is a long distance from the airport so may not be able to see it but can fly the approach . It can be useful if it is hazy or the sun is making it hard for the pilots to find the airport . Some parallel runways are approved for simultaneous approaches ( as is the case at Narita for runways 34L &amp; 34R ) so ATC will clear two airplanes for the respective ILS 's . This keeps them tracking the centerline of the approach instead of maneuvering visually where they might drift over into the way of the other airplane . Flying the approach on the autopilot leaves more time for the pilot to focus on other things and possibly catch something that might have been missed while hand flying a visual approach . Sometimes instrument approaches are used for noise abatement reasons . If I had to guess about the particular approach that you mention , I would say that it is probably company SOP ( Standard Operating Procedures ) to fly the ILS whenever possible for the safety benefits , and that Narita allows simultaneous parallel landings to the two runways so ATC would require it as well .
From all that I have seen on that type of aircraft , there is merely a filter . If one was operating in a dusty environment ( eg the bush ) then I would add those to a 100 hour check . But honestly , I have never seen one clogged to the point it would not work . They are not suspectable to icing as there is a low pressure drop across them , and they get their air from inside the cabin , where there is not a cold mist . It 's usually rather dry and at low temperatures , it is probably heated . The alternate air is for the static port , which is exterior , and will ice up , although it is a rather infrequent occurrence . The altimeter , airspeed and VSI are not gyro instruments , and are impacted by the static port . Keep in mind that if your altimeter is not reading correctly because of static port ice , then most likely your encoding altimeter is similarly off , and your mode C ( or other ) readout at ATC will be off . In my experience , the Cessna models you listed tend to ice less than the PA28 models , but again , it is rare , even for weather flyers . And if it is happening to you , you need to reexamine your weather choices . While we are talking blockages , the pitot tube is the most frequent , and there have been times that I have had to remove a bug from the tube on the Cessnas . Let a mechanic do it the first time , so that you get some of the tricks . I usually use a straightened paper clip or a piece of safety wire , with a sharp hook , about 0.3 mm bent in it . That will help you scoop out the bug . Again , this does n't happen often , as usually we have covers on pitot tubes , but I have had it happen in remote areas ( like Central American hilltop unimproved airports ) so if you are flying to those places you need to make friends with your mechanic so that you can manage the lots of different things that come up . In summary , the vacuum gyros have a filter , and they do n't tend to clog often . Some of them are rather coarse , but modern ones have 10 micron filters or better . If you are in an extremely dusty area , they should be periodically inspected . For most people , they will never have a problem with them . ( If you have that much dust in the cockpit , then you will have other problems , including avionics switches , dirt creeping into displays , etc. )
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
Yes , but only under highly unlikely circumstances . An airplane contains all sorts of materials that float , from fuel to seat cushions to the plastic cups in the galley . In order to sink without leaving any floating wreckage , all of that material would need to be trapped within the airplane while it fills with water . In order for this to happen , the airplane needs to land intact on the water . As any number of ditchings indicate , this is n't going to happen -- even US Airways 1549 had the rear of the fuselage tear open on landing . More often , the engines or wings will tear off , leaving oil and fuel slicks .
You say mention a ' forward rate ' of 9:2 . If I get you right , that means L/D = 4,5 The mass of your body , plus electric motor , battery and parachute is probably around 110 kg . Assuming you may glide with an airspeed of 15 m/s at L/D = 4,5 , the vertical component of the airspeed is 15/4 ,5 = 3,33 m/s , and the ' gravitational power ' involved is 110 x 9,8 x 3,33 = 3600 W . The conversion efficiency of motor + propeller is probably 0,5 , so the electric power needed to fly level at L/D = 4,5 and 15 m/s would be 7200 W . If the capacity of your batteries is 6 x 504 Wh = 3024 WH , then your flight time would be 3024/7200 = 0,42 hours = 25 minutes ... More or less ...
Three reasons I can think of : It 's easy to detect the general presence of a specific transmitting device ( a WiFi antenna , say ) , but very hard to precisely localize it . They could tell if there 's one on the plane , but someone with a very sensitive piece of equipment would have to walk up and down the aisles pointing it at people to actually find it in somebody 's pocket . And cellphones ( when not in use ) are generally burst transmitters : they do n't broadcast continuously , they just " ping " the tower every so often . This means it could take a long time and a lot of aisle-pacing . Many " electronic devices " which are banned are entirely passive and have no traceable [ * ] emissions . Think cameras , handheld GPS receivers , iPods . ( On the other hand this passiveness also means they are extremely unlikely to harmfully interfere with the operation of the airplane , but right or wrong , such devices are still banned in some cases . ) It 's not that important . There are a few incidents where electronic interference is suspected as a possible factor , but no conclusive evidence . As soon as there is actually a fatal accident where an electronic device can be conclusively blamed as the cause ( and I doubt this will happen ) , the airlines will be a lot more willing to spend the kind of money that would be required to implement this . For a full , evidence-based discussion of the actual risks , I refer you to this question on Skeptics Stack Exchange : <URL> [ * ] No traceable emissions . All electronic devices generate some very , very tiny incidental signals . But these are so weak that they will be virtually impossible to detect on a crowded plane filled with its own ( approved ) electronics . Such emissions are measured in laboratories with extremely sensitive antennas in special , heavily-shielded rooms under carefully controlled conditions .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
Technically no , but in the spirit of your question , yes . All aircraft , including those operated for private and commercial purposes , are governed by 14 CFR 91 - General Operating and Flight Rules . 14 CFR 119 specifies additional regulations that govern certain types of aircraft and operations , including larger private aircraft and commercial operations : 14 CFR 125 covers larger ( airline style ) private aircraft 14 CFR 121 covers the airlines 14 CFR 135 covers commuter and on demand ( charter ) commercial operators So it is n't that private aircraft have relaxed regulations , it is just that they are n't required to comply with the additional regulations that govern the airline and charter operators . There are many , MANY additional regulations that commercial operators have to comply with , including operational and maintenance regulations . A few example : Pilots flying commercially have strict limits on the time that they are allowed to fly or be on duty . Pilots of private aircraft do n't have any limit , other than not to fly if it would be unsafe . Commercial pilots are subject to more strict medical requirements . If an aircraft has to divert due to a mechanical problem , it must be reported to the FAA if being operated commercially . There are strict limits on how far that a commercially operated aircraft may be from a suitable airport , but there are no such limits for privately operated aircraft . Passengers must be screened and must be checked against government maintained no-fly lists for commercial flights . An aircraft used for commercial purposes is required to be inspected more often . With certain ( very limited ) exceptions , commercial aircraft are required to be operated by a company ( certificate holder ) with required management personnel such as the Chief Pilot and Director of Maintenance , while private aircraft can be managed by one person ( even the pilot ) . See the online <URL> for the specific regulations that fall under each part .
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
From the title of your question ( taking off / landing planes ) , I assume you are asking about a tower controller . As you may know , most air traffic do n't work in a control tower , but are en-route controllers working in an ACC ( area control center ) . The number of planes a tower controller handles each day is of course highly dependent on the airport traffic conditions ( november , for example , is a quiet month ) . I work in an European single-runway airport , where the runway capacity is 40 flights / hour ( landings and departures included ) in optimal conditions . Controllers usually work around 5 effective hours per day , so the theoretical maximum number of planes would be 200 planes . In practice , it is very unlikely that a controller will actually control that number of aircraft , because the runway is used at maximum capacity only during peak hours ( early morning , late afternoon and beginning of the evening ) . Also , a tower controller does n't only work at the tower position , she will also be typically work a clearance delivery and an approach position .
You do n't need the standby altimeter for VFR ( day or night ) but you do need it for IFR . The Comprehensive Equipment List ( section 6 in the POH ) lists all the equipment required by the type certificate : Required items or equipment for FAA certification ( 14 CFR Part 23 or Part 91 ) But , even if a piece of equipment is required by the type certificate that does n't mean it 's required for a specific flight . The Kinds of Operations Equipment List ( section 2 in the POH ) lists the equipment that 's required for airworthiness in day and night VFR and IFR : identifies the equipment required to be operational for airplane airworthiness in the listed kind of operations . <URL> says that the aircraft must be " in an airworthy condition " to fly , and that 's what the KOEL defines . The reason that the standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List is that the C172S was type certified under the old part 23 rules . <URL> required IFR-certified aircraft that use electronic displays - like the G1000 in the NAV III - to have a standby altimeter , either mechanical or electrically isolated from the main one ( emphasis mine ) : For certification for Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) operations , have an independent magnetic direction indicator and either an independent secondary mechanical altimeter , airspeed indicator , and attitude instrument or an electronic display parameters for the altitude , airspeed , and attitude that are independent from the airplane 's primary electrical power system In summary : The standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List because it 's an IFR certification requirement Operationally , the standby altimeter is only required for IFR flight , per the KOEL
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
end question
start question
What type of microcontrollers are used in large scale UAVs ?
Airbus used standard Intel 80186 and Motorola 68010 CPUs with 2.5 MiB of memory in the FBW system for A320 . Exactly the same chips that were used for computers at the time ( around 1985 ) so they were not expensive and were already tested . Over time they upgraded to newer version of those CPUs . Each computer is composed from two boards with different CPUs , one produces the control output and the other verifies it and shuts the unit down if they disagree . The boards run different standard embedded operating systems and the software was written by two independent teams to minimize risk of the same failure mode in both boards . Each board only does a little bit of work and the important units have backups . There are 4 units processing the sidestick input , 3 controlling elevator and ailerons , 3 controlling spoilers and elevator trim , IIRC 2 for yaw damper ( FAC ) , 2 for each engine digital control , 1 for each display etc. . The requirements did n't really increase much since then . It is still desired that the tasks are split across many independent boards to minimize effects of one of them failing . So a CPU with few MHz clock rate and few MB of memory would still be able to do the job . But such slow chips are not manufactured anymore , so they are probably using whatever was most common chips few years ago .
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
For the US , according to <URL> of the AIM ( Designated UNICOM/MULTICOM Frequencies ) for private fixed-wing flights you should use 122.75 : Air-to-air communication ( private fixed wing aircraft ) : 122.750 Air-to-air communications ( general aviation helicopters ) : 123.025 Aviation instruction , Glider , Hot Air Balloon ( not to be used for advisory service ) : 123.300 , 123.500 I have no idea what the military does and their tactical comms might even be encrypted anyway , but they frequently use UHF instead of VHF , at least in the US . Nor do I know what to do if you have two formation flights at the same time , but I guess that in reality it 's either an air show with some form of semi-official control and perhaps even NOTAMs , or it 's something private and in that case people make their own arrangements , e.g. picking some frequency that does n't overlap with any nearby assigned frequencies . Using 123.45 is apparently common , but definitely not official . Non-VHF communications for private flights would be regulated by the FCC , not the FAA , and personally I 'm not sure if the benefits would be worth the extra equipment and the risk of confusion , but then again I know nothing about formation flying . EDIT : some useful information from the FAA is in this <URL> clarifying the use of 121.5 and 123.45 . It says that 123.45 is for operational use in oceanic regions , and within the US it 's reserved for " non-government flight test operations " . There 's also an <URL> on requesting temporary frequencies for airshows etc. but it 's air to ground only .
What a fix is has been answered <URL> but for now let 's just say it 's a known location that a pilot can navigate to if he has the right equipment . Fixes are shown on various charts and approach plates . As for using those fixes on an instrument approach , there are lots of variations and details but again , let 's ignore most of that for now . The basic concept is very simple : Fly to an Initial Approach Fix ( IAF ) Fly to other fixes as needed to execute the approach Land ( or go missed ) For example , here 's the RNAV ( GPS ) 36R approach at <URL> : <URL> You can see at the bottom of the map portion of the plate that both MASHA and FEWER are IAFs , so that 's where the approach starts . Let 's say you 're approaching from the south-west and you 've already descended to a reasonable altitude for starting an approach , following a <URL> or vectors from ATC . ATC says something like " N12345 proceed direct MASHA , cleared for the RNAV 36R approach " . That means that you are now cleared to execute the approach as shown on the chart , with no further instruction from ATC ( although they might have vectored you towards the IAF initially ) . The chart tells you that at MASHA you need to be at at least 3000ft MSL so you simply fly there at or above that altitude . Since it 's a GPS approach , you load it and activate it in your GPS unit , and you can follow the GPS track to MASHA . After MASHA , the next fix is ENIKY and the GPS track will lead you east to that fix ( which is a heading of 091 ° from MASHA ) . The profile view at the bottom of the plate shows that you must still be at or above 3000ft at ENIKY . Then you turn left to 002 ° and fly to UJOTY , where you must be at or above 2700ft . Then you continue to GEPDE at or above 1180ft . Then you land :-) Of course , I 'm ignoring a huge amount of detail here - like everything else printed on the approach plate ! - but since this question is about fixes the main point is that they 're simply a series of waypoints that you fly over ( <URL> ) to get to the runway . And obviously you also have to control your altitude as you descend , but the altitude is defined by the approach procedure , it is n't part of the definition of the fix itself . The same fix can be used in multiple approaches : MASHA and FEWER are also the IAFs for the <URL> ) . Even though different approaches define and use fixes in different ways , the basic idea is always the same : just fly from one fix to the next until you get where you 're going .
Traditionally , it was almost only movie projectors in the cabin , since Cathode Ray Tubes ( CRT ) were too bulky and impractical to fit . It was also very expensive . I think only with the arrival of LCD displays seatback displays that we know now were made possible . As for cockpit displays , the CRTs were widely used until LCDs were introduced and offered better performance . You can compare the 737 Classic with retrofitted CRT displays with those of the 737 Next Generation . Compare the 747-400 to the 747-8 which had LCD in place of CRT . I ca n't find pictures , but have been told that the old CRT modules were huge , very deep ( which you ca n't see ) and heavy , compare to the thin panel that now is available . You can still backwards order CRT for aircraft . I was flying with one airline that had done on a very new A320 to maintain commonality with the rest of the fleet . The pilots did n't appreciate it though , since it was bad for the eyes , needed to be dimmed and had ( I believe ) inferior resolution . Page 9 of <URL> gives some details on the display type tradeoff .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
Here are a few ideas : First and foremost , we 're not handling metals here . Composites have the advantage of being able to be made stronger by adding on a few layers around high-stress area like windows . This was difficult with metals since this needed some sort of fasteners or adhesives to do . This reinforcement is seen in the photo below . The windows are designed to keep an even pressure all around in the context of the fuselage shape at that point . You 'll notice the flange design which keeps the fuselage shape and stop it from popping open . This is a little like the thicker part of a bottle neck . This is very difficult ( if possible ) to do well in a metal fuselage to this extent . <URL> The usage is completely different . Concorde was a commercial aircraft , intended for many years of operation . This is a very low-cycle aircraft which will see a fraction of that flying . The number of pressurisation cycles is a lot lower , putting much less force on the windows . As for safety , the style of flying is completely different . Probably flown by test pilots , the aircraft might never even experience rain and will fly under very predictable conditions , with very few flight cycles . Periods of elevated temperatures gradually degrades many materials , this is much less a concern with short flights . If I gather correctly this is the main issue with sustained high-speed flight , as seen on Concorde and SR-71 and other aircraft . <URL> Composites have a lot lower thermal expansion ( CFRP vs. Aluminium is an order of magnitude lower ) which reduces issues with expansion in the fuselage . Concorde was a commercial aircraft with weight and operating price in mind . This aircraft is built for this purpose , with the windows considered as a main feature from the start . You could probably have been able to make the windows a lot larger on Concorde , at the unacceptable price of weight , production and operating cost . Needless to say that knowledge of materials and structures has advanced substantially , all our these features can be modelled in detail on computers , not necessitating the traditional conservative approach . As for redundancy , predecessor SpaceShipOne had double pane windows and double seals everywhere . For the passengers without suits , if a window were to blow entirely , you 're most probably out of luck .
All wings warp . The extent of warping is one restriction which limits the fast side of the <URL> . Once aircraft designers realized that thick wings have less drag , they tried to build their wings as stiff as possible . Stiff wings allow to use airfoils with rear loading , will have <URL> and keep their shape even when operating at high dynamic pressure . Since the center of pressure moves chordwise on cambered airfoils depending on the angle of attack , any cambered wing will suffer from pitching moments around its axis of elasticity . This moment will <URL> and change the incidence of the outer wing sections . A stiff wing will suffer less twisting and stay closer to its ideal aerodynamic shape . Add an aileron , and another twisting moment is added on top . Now the wing twists opposite to the aileron deflection ! This can become so bad that most of the aileron 's effectiveness is lost as the wing is warped in a way which counteracts the lift change of the aileron . The <URL> uses this effect with an array of leading and trailing edge devices to actively warp the wing in the desired direction . Using computer-controlled deflections of small but very effective control surfaces , it creates a desired deformation of the wing for roll control . This can be compared to the effect a <URL> has on an aileron . The Flettner tab is a small control surface at the trailing edge of a larger control surface and is deflected by the pilot such that it moves the big control surface in opposite direction . It slightly reduces the effectiveness of the big control surface , but needs only a fraction of the stick force , thus helping to manually control big aircraft . Since the active wing warping of the X-53 depends on the proper functioning of the FCS and an array of movable devices , each with its own failure mode , I would hesitate to see this as a clear advantage . It allows , however , to control the aircraft at high dynamic pressure with minimal drag penalties .
The FAA treats large airplanes the same as any other airplane when it comes to VFR flight . They are required to maintain the same distance from clouds , only fly with the same minimum visibility , see and avoid other aircraft , etc. . However , since only IFR flights are allowed above FL180 ( without a special exemption ) , and large turbine airplanes are terribly inefficient at low altitudes , so it does n't happen very often . In the US , Part 121 flights have the most restrictions of any of the operating rules , and they have multiple regulations relating to VFR flight , including this one1 : <URL> No person may dispatch or release an aircraft for VFR operation unless the ceiling and visibility en route , as indicated by available weather reports or forecasts , or any combination thereof , are and will remain at or above applicable VFR minimums until the aircraft arrives at the airport or airports specified in the dispatch or flight release . So yes , even if it is operated by a 121 carrier , they are allowed to fly VFR by the regulations . However , they must also comply with their Operations Specifications and Flight Operations Manuals which will have detailed procedures covering the conditions where it is allowed . Outside of 121 there are even fewer restrictions on VFR flight . 1 There is also : § 121.347 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes navigated by pilotage . § 121.349 - Communication and navigation equipment for operations under VFR over routes not navigated by pilotage or for operations under IFR or over the top . § 121.649 - Takeoff and landing weather minimums : VFR : Domestic operations . § 121.667 - Flight plan : VFR and IFR : Supplemental operations .
Yes , squawk codes are still used and required with ADS-B . It 's possible that in the future this may change , but because of the bifurcated implementation the FAA has chosen for ADS-B I do n't think it 's likely . ADS-B operates by giving additional information beyond the Mode A ( squawk ) code - this is either encoded on the 1090MHz transponder frequency ( Mode S " Extended Squitter " - what most of the world uses ) or sent on a separate frequency ( the 987MHz " Universal Access Transceiver " frequency , which is a US/FAA only thing mainly intended for light GA aircraft ) . The Mode S and Extended Squitter data includes things like the aircraft 's unique Mode S address ( a 24-bit number assigned to the aircraft by its national registry , in the US this is linked to the N number ) , and may also provide the tail number or flight number . The ATC radar system will accept and display this information for the controller . At the moment the Mode S/ES data is not used as a substitute for the Mode A transponder code , but because Mode S data is coming through the ATC secondary radar system it 's all immediately available with the secondary radar return the same way a Mode A squawk code is , and it 's possible that the FAA may use the Mode S ID in place of the Mode A squawk code for these aircraft in the future . The 987MHz UAT transmissions also include the Mode S address ( because it 's a useful unique identifier for a given aircraft ) and flight ID/tail number can be sent as well . Information from UAT transmitters is received through separate ground stations and recombined with the radar return in the ATC radar back-end . There 's some magic to that recombining which is out of my depth , but my limited understanding is that since the UAT data is n't directly correlated with a radar return squawk codes are part of how the two are matched up ( the radar computer knows your N number by your discrete squawk code , the UAT ground station knows it from your Mode S ID - if they match and the position data is within reason the ADS-B information can be associated with your radar data block ) .
Glider pilots in a competition will try to place the center of gravity at the most rearward position possible , sometimes even further back than permitted . This will make the glider statically unstable , but the performance will not be much improved - this is more psychological than real . Do n't discount psychology in competitions : Pilots who feel that they fly an inferior plane will take bigger risks to get ahead and have a much higher chance of spoiling their chances by doing something stupid . Therefore , everyone tries to tweak their plane , even if the tweaking only helps to give a good feeling . Now to the physics : If the center of gravity ( CG ) is right above or below the aerodynamic center ( AC ) , the aircraft 's longitudinal static stability is indifferent . Move it forward and stability increases , move it further back and the plane becomes unstable . The aerodynamic center is where the angle-of-atttack-dependent lift forces act , and in an indifferent configuration the lift coefficient on wing and tail will be equal . Since the aspect ratio of the wing is normally larger than that of the tail , an indifferent configuration will already produce slightly more induced drag for the same lift than a slightly stable configuration . Details depend on the lift loss at the center of the wing due to the fuselage and the combined vorticity of wing and tail , but as a first approximation the above is valid . Moving the CG further aft only makes matters worse . Now it can be argued that the rear CG location helps in maneuvering the aircraft . This might even be helpful with gliders , since they need to maneuver quickly into the center of a thermal , but HALE ( high altitude long endurance ) UAVs fly mostly straight , so maneuvers will be few , slow and deliberate . In essence , moving the CG back in a very stable configuration helps , but the optimum is reached already before the CG reaches the AC . Moving it back even further is detrimental to performance and runs the risk of stalling the tail first due to its high loading . I do not know of any HALE which flies in a statically unstable configuration , and the glider pilots who do will not openly talk about it .
Airbus used standard Intel 80186 and Motorola 68010 CPUs with 2.5 MiB of memory in the FBW system for A320 . Exactly the same chips that were used for computers at the time ( around 1985 ) so they were not expensive and were already tested . Over time they upgraded to newer version of those CPUs . Each computer is composed from two boards with different CPUs , one produces the control output and the other verifies it and shuts the unit down if they disagree . The boards run different standard embedded operating systems and the software was written by two independent teams to minimize risk of the same failure mode in both boards . Each board only does a little bit of work and the important units have backups . There are 4 units processing the sidestick input , 3 controlling elevator and ailerons , 3 controlling spoilers and elevator trim , IIRC 2 for yaw damper ( FAC ) , 2 for each engine digital control , 1 for each display etc. . The requirements did n't really increase much since then . It is still desired that the tasks are split across many independent boards to minimize effects of one of them failing . So a CPU with few MHz clock rate and few MB of memory would still be able to do the job . But such slow chips are not manufactured anymore , so they are probably using whatever was most common chips few years ago .
Just toe brakes . Typically the instruction between line-up-and-wait and clearing for takeoff is very short , maybe ten seconds . In simpler aircraft , the parking brake just " pinches " or closes off the brake fluid line to keep the wheel brakes held , but in the fly-by-wire airliners , the parking brake just clamps the normal wheel brakes as if the toe brakes were held .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
Have n't seen any . Cabin heating is done quite differently on jet aircraft than on pistons . Bleed air is taken from the engine before the combustion chamber , so engine exhaust ca n't end up in the cabin , even if there was a greater fault in the A/C packs .
Several things come to mind , but they will all reduce efficiency and/or cost money , so they will not be popular with engine users : For turbofans : Reduce the <URL> of the spinning parts by reducing the bypass ratio . Inertia is mass times distance , so making the engine diameter smaller should have the biggest effect . Increase temperature margins for the turbine . Today , the electronic control ( called <URL> for Full Authority Digital Engine Control ) will limit the amount of fuel that can be injected into the combustion chamber to limit the temperature in the turbine . By running the turbine hotter for a few seconds the turbine torque can be increased , at the cost of a reduction in the lifetime of the turbine . For turboprops : Reduce blade pitch momentarily to unload the propeller , so more torque is available for spooling up the engine core . This , however , reduces thrust when it is needed most . Reduce secondary loads by disconnecting generators and closing bleed valves . This is already done by todays engine control , however . The best way of dealing with the slow engine response is operational : Avoid situations where the need for a rapid spool-up might arise or enter those situations not with engines set to idle , but to some medium power setting . Carrier pilots do this routinely by spooling up the engine shortly before touchdown , so they will have the required thrust at their disposal if the tail hook fails to catch any of the <URL> . Thanks to RalphJ for pointing out that turboprops use the same tactic . Helicopters never let the engine run in idle while in flight . If less thrust ( turboprops ) rsp . lift ( helicopters ) is needed , both adjust pitch to set the desired thrust/lift and keep engine RPM up . Now the mass flow through the engine core is the same as at full thrust , only the amount of heating in the combustion chamber is reduced to adjust the power output of the engine . When more thrust/lift is needed , the pilot adjusts pitch and fuel flow to set the desired thrust/lift level . Since the engine is already running at top speed , the change is not delayed by inertial effects .
Assuming that the pilots have tried everything possible and the gear just does not like to come down : The general rule is to find a long runway , touch down as slow as possible . Here are sections extracted from Boeing 777 's Flight Crew Training Manual : Dumping fuel If time and conditions permit , reduce weight as much as possible by burning off or jettisoning fuel to attain the slowest possible touchdown speed . Elevator After touchdown lower the nose gently before losing elevator effectiveness . Rudder At touchdown speed , the rudder has sufficient authority to provide directional control in most configurations . Speedbrakes ( ... ) speedbrakes should be extended only when stopping distance is critical . Extending the speedbrakes ( ... ) may compromise controllability of the airplane . Reverse Thrust ( ... ) an engine making ground contact could suffer sufficient damage such that the reverse mechanism may not operate . Selecting reverse thrust ( ... ) may produce an additional asymmetric condition that makes directional control more difficult . Reverse thrust should be used only when stopping distance is critical . Landing technique The technique varies with the combination of failure . If one side of the main gears is missing , land the plane to the side of runway which corresponds to the extended main gear . I.e. if the left gear is down and right gear is up , land on the left side of the runway instead of centerline . Maintain wings level for as long as possible , and be prepared to brake on the left side to maintain directional control . If all the gears decide to hide in the gears bay , land on centerline and use rudder to maintain directional control . Rudder is effective until airspeed drops too low . After landing Evacuate the aircraft as necessary !
Most helicopter do n't carry radar ; there is no need for it . In civil helicopters radar is typically used for weather detection . In most use cases there is not real need for it because helicopters are usually operating under daytime Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) and are staying away from clouds . For maritime helicopters that are used in search and rescue operations or off-shore operations on oil-rigs , weather is often installed . The typical location is in a radome in the nose of the helicopter . Examples are the <URL> or <URL> Military helicopters use radar for detecting objects . Depending on the nature of the mission the helicopter is designed for , the radar is underneath ( usually for navy operation , providing sea surface detection capabilities , see for example the navy version of the NH90 ) or on top of the rotor ( to look over obstacles such a hills / trees and provide fire control to their missiles ) . An example is the <URL> .
end question
start question
Since there are no toilets on smaller aircraft , how do you deal with the inevitable ?
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
Given how few bounding criteria you have in your question , the general result is For fixed wing aircraft : your ground speed will be significantly higher than if you 'd taken off heading into the same wind , and thus you 'll tend to use up more runway before lifting off . Example : with a take off speed of 100 kts , going into or downwind is the difference between 90 knots or 110 knots ground speed before reaching take off speed when the wind down the runway is 10 knots . This difference becomes more pronounced as wind speed increases ; it 's a differential of 2 x wind speed . With a long enough runway it wo n't matter in terms of " taking off before running out of runway . " On a short field it may matter a great deal . For Rotary Wing aircraft : you may need a bit more power to hover when lifting off with a tail wind . <URL> : Headwinds are the most desirable as they contribute to the greatest increase in performance . { snip } When taking off into a headwind , effective trans lational lift is achieved earlier , resulting in more lift and a steeper climb angle . When taking off with a tailwind , more distance is required to accelerate through translational lift . For a variety of aircraft types , if the tail wind is high enough your manual will recommend against/prohibit down wind takeoffs , but that varies enough between models and types that a general answer ca n't encompass all of the variations .
The scenario you 're asking about is common . Let 's say that your Delta 158 from Korea to Detroit is running several hours late , and the decision is made to operate the A320 DTW-BOS on time . ATC does n't accept having two aircraft flying with the same callsign at once due to exactly the sort of confusion you suggest , so something has to change . What will happen is that the second flight -- i.e. the one that is n't already airborne , will get a new ATC callsign . Sometimes you 'll hear something like " Delta 158A " as the callsign of the flight , or they may use something entirely different like " Delta 9158 " as the ATC callsign for that flight . Each company will have their own method of resolving the conflict ; some use letters , others do n't . Some can go to " 9000 + original flight number , " and others will simply use something like 9001 for the first " stubbed out " flight that day , 9002 for the next , and so on . But , the basic answer is that the ATC callsign of the flight changes . Which does NOT mean , incidentally , that the flight number as far as the passengers are concerned has changed . It 's possible to be " Delta 9158 " or " Delta 9001 " or " Delta 158A " or whatever for ATC and still be " Flight 158 " when talking on the PA to the passengers . The fact that the ATC callsign changed is transparent to the rest of the operation , since reservations , ticket counter , baggage handling , and so forth is n't upset when 158 ICN-DTW happens to overlap ( in time ) 158 DTW-BOS . Only ATC worries about that , so the fix is only visible to them ( and the pilots &amp; dispatchers ) .
Numbering the radios that I can think of offhand in the old 747-100 and -200 aircraft that I used to fly produces : 2 VHF voice communications radios . 2 VHF navigation radio receivers for receiving VOR and LOC signals . The LOC frequencies are paired with UHF frequencies for receiving glideslope signals . 1 ADF ( automatic direction finding ) receiver . 1 HF ( high frequency ) voice communication radio . 2 transponders to send whatever the " squawk " is when interrogated . # 1 was used on odd days of the month , # 2 on even days . There are a number of standard codes , but ATC assigns a 4-digit code to each aircraft during flight under their control . There is never an 8 or a 9 in the code because it 's an octal code . 1 SELCAL ( selective calling ) receiver , which will sound an alert if it receives a signal sent by a ground station . It may not be a separate radio but just a box listening for a tone on one of the voice communication radios . 1 weather radar , and , yes , radar is a radio ( radio detection and ranging ) employing both a transmitter and a receiver . 1 radar altimeter for use in the final stages of the landing approach . Some were " talkers " in that starting around 50 feet , they would announce your altitude in increments of 10 feet . 1 GPWS ( ground proximity warning system ) . I 'm not sure whether it and the radar altimeter shared a box/circuitry/antenaes . 1 GPS receiver , which we got only in the last few months before I retired in 1999 1 ELT ( emergency locator transmitter ) life raft locator beacons . I ca n't remember how many life rafts there were . life raft voice communication on 121.5 and maybe 243.0 . I may not have remembered them all . Modern transport category aircraft would also have SATCOM . Military aircraft would have UHF voice communications and mission appropriate weaponry radios .
Can you ? Absolutely , and air traffic control will treat you ( almost ) like any other airplane . You are supposedly handled on a first-come-first-serve basis ( reality is slightly different with different aircraft speeds , etc. ) . Do the airlines like it if you slow them down ? No , but it 's part of the system and the way that it works . Very often , there are multiple runways at bigger airports , and sometimes there are even shorter runways that are dedicated for airplanes that do n't need to land on the same one as the " big boys " . Even if not , they will work you in . Now , that being said , very often there is a better option . As you said , there are usually high fees at the big airports , so landing at a smaller satellite airport can often save you money and save you time because you wo n't have to taxi as far or sit and wait in line to get out . An extra 15 minutes by car can be better than an extra 30 minutes while taxiing . As far as being prepared , it is n't really much different than smaller airports other than the fact that ATC is much busier . They do n't have the time/tolerance to keep repeating instructions to you , and expect you to be " on your game " . When they rattle off taxi instructions like " Cessna N1234 , taxi to the ramp via Alpha , Tango , Echo , and Xray . Hold short of runway 23 . " they expect a quick readback and for you to follow instructions exactly because they need to move on to the next guy . It will also help everyone out if you do n't fly your final approach the way that most people are taught for an entire 10 mile final : very close to your actual landing speed . In fact , you are usually landing on a runway that is 4X + the distance that you need and you can slow down fairly quickly ( especially compared to a jet ) , so if you can fly an extra 20 ( or 80 ) knots as long as possible , it will be greatly appreciated and keep traffic moving . Make sure that you leave yourself enough time to slow down at the end and above all else , be safe .
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
This question is a partial duplicate of <URL> and <URL> . When ATC gives a heading , receives the correct readback , but observes a 10 - to 15-degree difference between the actual and intended tracks , does the specialist incorporate this difference into future vectors ? Sometimes . The controller issues headings but observes ground track . If the wind is causing drift , the controller will compensate for it when she provides vectors . Sometimes , if an aircraft is suitably equipped , a controller will ask for a wind report in order to better judge the winds at altitude . Do approach and traffic separation vectors generally have a healthy margins of error ? Yep . <URL> . How does apparent compass deviation or directional gyro precession factor into vectors that ATC issues ? It 's up to the pilot , not the controller , to correct for compass deviation ( since only the pilot can see the compass correction card inside the aircraft ) and gyro precession ( since only the pilot can turn the little knob to reset the gyro ) .
In terms of safety , the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot made the decision to land on that runway . The corrective emphasis should be on determining why this mistake was made and taking whatever steps are necessary to prevent that mistake in the future . Especially in transport category airplanes , the crew should always calculate the required landing/rollout distance for the current landing weight , wind , atmospheric ( temperature/pressure ) and runway surface conditions , and this should be compared against the approach plate / airport diagram / A/FD . In most transport category airplanes this can all be computed by the FMS and it is standard procedure to do this on every single flight . The question of what to do after the key mistake is still valid , though . I would say it depends on when the pilot recognizes that the runway is too short . If recognized on approach , a simple go around is clearly called for and perfectly safe . Once the wheels touch the ground , the decision gets a lot more complicated . The pilot must choose whether to reject the landing or commit to it . If you recognize it as soon as you touch down , you would probably be able to apply takeoff power and get airborne again safely . Once you 've started to brake and decelerate , there will quickly come a point-of-no-return . Since you 're starting at high speed , you 're using up a lot of runway early in the landing rollout . Also note that in many airplanes it can take a significant amount of time to retract spoilers , stow thrust reversers , and spool the engines back up to takeoff thrust . You 'll be consuming a lot of runway during this time . ( At a constant 120 knots , you 'll use up 2,000 feet of runway in just 10 seconds . ) In my opinion it 's far better to commit to a landing . If I 'm going to overrun the runway , I 'd rather it happen at low speed . If you try to take off again and do n't make it , your overrun will be at much higher speed , and destructive energy in a crash is proportional to the square of your ground speed . So there 's a gray area ... you could attempt to take off again if you were dead certain you were going to make it . Otherwise , it 's most likely best to " cut your losses " and get the airplane as slow as possible when you run out of runway , in order to minimize damage &amp; injury . If you can get it down to , say , 30 or 40 knots , you 're likely to escape without any serious injuries ( the plane may take a bit of a beating , though , depending on what 's beyond the end of the runway ) . If you do it at 120 knots , all bets are off . And you did mention a specific runway with a cliff at the end ; obviously that would have to factor into the decision-making process . It may be that you simply realized your mistake too late and there is nothing you can do about it . This leads me back to the original point , which is that the key mistake was made as soon as the pilot decided to set up an approach to that runway . The best bet is to make sure that never happens . EDIT : After reading about the specific incident you referred to , it seems that the pilots simply mistook the airport itself for a different one with a longer runway . So it 's not necessarily that they failed to calculate their required landing distance ; rather they just landed at the wrong place . This is a different , but equally bad ( or worse ) mistake , discussed to some extent in the comments below .
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
<URL> ( titled " Over the Top " by Gerard J. Arpey ) says , By the way , because of the limitations of older navigation systems , none of the polar routes we fly crosses exactly over the North Pole . At the Pole , an airplane 's compass changes from a due-north heading to due south , and that change of course could potentially lead to problems with earlier - generation autopilot systems . Fortunately , that is not an issue with the latest generation of long-haul aircraft , such as the Boeing 777s we fly , whose source of navigation is the extremely precise Global Positioning System ( GPS ) . Nonetheless , to make polar flying equally effortless for both the new generation and the previous generations of aircraft , none of the approved civil polar routes comes closer than about 60 nautical miles from the Pole .
There is one example in the AIM used for transitioning from VFR to IFR , and it how I 've always done it : AIM 5-2-5 . Abbreviated IFR Departure Clearance ( Cleared & hellip ; as Filed ) Procedures EXAMPLE - " Los Angeles center , Apache Six One Papa , VFR estimating Paso Robles VOR at three two , one thousand five hundred , request IFR to Bakersfield . " Reference : <URL> ( 13 MB PDF ) Notice that they specifically say " VFR " right before their current location and also use the word " request " to make it clear what they are looking for . I would change your request to : Tampa Approach , Cirrus 123AB , VFR 5 miles southeast of Tampa Exec at 1000 feet , request IFR to Ft. Lauderdale Exec
You 're almost certainly talking about a <URL> , who is just an airport ( FBO ) employee who gives information to pilots on their request . The FAA 's Pilot Handbook <URL> : UNICOM is a nongovernment air/ground radio communication station which may provide airport information at public use airports where there is no tower or FSS . On pilot request , UNICOM stations may provide pilots with weather information , wind direction , the recommended runway , or other necessary information . If the UNICOM frequency is designated as the CTAF , it will be identified in appropriate aeronautical publications . The important point is that UNICOM is not ATC . A UNICOM operator can not give you instructions , clearances or require you to do anything . He can only give you information , and as PIC it 's up to you to decide how to use that information . The <URL> that Porcupine911 <URL> is a great example of that . A student pilot thought that UNICOM was telling him which runway to land on , whereas in fact the operator was only recommending a runway ( presumably based on the prevailing wind or whatever ) . Unfortunately , the operator recommended the opposite runway to the one that was actually in use by other pilots . Like pilots , UNICOM operators vary in their experience and competence . A good UNICOM operator ( in my opinion ) will give you the local wind and altimeter information , tell you if there are other aircraft in the pattern or nearby , tell you which runway is in use by those aircraft , and give you any essential safety information ( like a closed runway ) . But as PIC , I 'm still going to listen to CTAF and AWOS and look for other traffic before choosing a runway and joining the pattern . It 's also common for no one to reply to a UNICOM call ( because the operator is out fueling aircraft in his other role as lineman , for example ) , in which case you 're going to have to sort things out without it anyway . So there 's no need to " report " anything : UNICOM operators are a well-known and official service , but you have to know how to use them and what their limitations are .
How is the pressure difference in passenger plane toilets generated ? The pressure in flight is generated by using the vacuum outside . This dose n't work on the ground or at low altitude , so there 's a pump as well to draw out the air to create an artificial vacuum . Considering that the toilets should also work on the ground , I presume pumps are used - on the other hand , maybe the low pressure is stored inside the tanks from the last flight ? Also , pumps would mean the toilets do n't work when the aircraft is not powered up - is this true ? Not sure about this one , but since the aircraft is seldom not powered when a person is onboard ( maintenance ca n't do much without power either ) , I ca n't think of this being a significant problem . There might be a little bit of leftover pressure . Airbus states that the vacuum pump is powered off the AC power bus , so it may be powered from the ground or the APU when the engines are n't on . Also , how was the engineering problem solved of keeping the pumps or the tubes connecting to the outside free from waste ? As is seen in the picture below , the tank is rinsed out through with the help of a second port on the access cover to clean it out . The rest of the system I believe is designed to last until the next maintenance , when ( I think ) it 's connected up to a high pressure hose to thoroughly clean it out . A320 Toliet System : <URL> Details .
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
Basically , you put wheels on the skid and tow them . In some cases , towing wheels are attached to the skids ( which usually have sleeves in them for mounting ) , and a tow bar is attached to the front ( one or two sets of wheels may be attached to the skids ) , which is then towed by a vehicle . <URL> Image from <URL> There are also specialised tow carts available for helicopters , which basically grip the skids ( usually in a couple of places on either side ) and lift them up , after which the helicopter can be moved by the operator by controlling the cart . <URL> Image from <URL>
This answer assumes that the question is in the context of the FAA 's jurisdiction . The red , green and white lights are position lights . They are required from sunset to sunrise by <URL> . ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise ( or , in Alaska , during the period a prominent unlighted object can not be seen from a distance of 3 statute miles or the sun is more than 6 degrees below the horizon ) -- ... ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; A solid red or solid white light on the underbelly does n't correspond to a configuration that I am familiar with and does n't meet the legal requirements . I have , however , seen some older varieties of rotating beacons that if broken may become a solid red light mounted on the underbelly . Some older models actually have a motor that actuates rotation . If one had a failed motor it could appear as a solid red light . The strobes are anticollision lights . The answer is also in <URL> . If anticollision lights are installed , they must be used unless the pilot turns them off in the interest of safety . The most common reason for this is if the aircraft is flying in the clouds and the diffuse strobing lights are a distraction or cause of disorientation such as <URL> . ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise ( or , in Alaska , during the period a prominent unlighted object can not be seen from a distance of 3 statute miles or the sun is more than 6 degrees below the horizon ) -- ... ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . <URL> is also relevant . Parts of it deal with the FAA requirements for both position and anticollision light systems . It states that aircraft may not be operated without position lights . It also states that aircraft may not be operated without anticollision lights installed with some exceptions . There are some provisions by which a flight may be conducted legally with broken lights so that it may be repaired . One such provision is also found in <URL> . ( 11 ) For small civil airplanes certificated after March 11 , 1996 , in accordance with part 23 of this chapter , an approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system . In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system , operation of the aircraft may continue to a location where repairs or replacement can be made . If you 're really interested , and I mean really really interested , the FAA released <URL> which contains a lot of technical data on exactly how these lights are to be built in terms of intensity , color and position . Delving into this document should be reserved for the truly bored and those who manufacture aircraft lighting .
During testing , the rear fuselage is protected by a beam made of oak or even steel to distribute the tail strike loads and to protect the aircraft skin . A340 during tail strike tests . This one is literally blazing along the runway ... For normal operations , the protection is removed . However , tail strikes must not cause flight-critical damage , so a few precautions are taken during design : No hydraulic or electrical lines must run along the bottom of the rear fuselage . If there are still mechanical control elements like pushrods , they and their collapsing supports must not be close to the bottom of the fuselage . The tail strike location must be outside of the pressurized part of the fuselage . The main protection against tail strikes , however , is procedural : The <URL> to allow lift-off before a critical pitch attitude is reached . Delta wing aircraft are much easier to over-rotate , so the Concorde used a retractable tailwheel for tail strike protection :
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
end question
start question
How would you get certified for the AgustaWestland AW609 as a rotorcraft pilot or without any previous certification ?
I know nothing about <URL> , but according to <URL> they 're a separate category for licensing , like airplane , rotorcraft or glider . It is therefore possible to get a " private pilot powered-lift " certificate without having any flying experience in any other aircraft type . 14 CFR 61.109 , 61.129 and 61.163 state the flying requirements for private , commercial and ATP powered-lift ratings respectively and 61.65 has the requirements for a powered-lift instrument rating . 61.109 ( e ) ( 5 ) does allow substituting some limited airplane ( i.e. fixed-wing ) experience for powered-lift time : ( 5 ) 10 hours of solo flight time in an airplane or powered-lift consisting of at least -- There are also allowances for using simulator and military experience in lieu of powered-lift flight time , but I could n't see anything that directly allows rotorcraft experience to count towards powered-lift certification . The fact that powered-lift is a category of its own suggests that the FAA considers them to be significantly different from rotorcraft . So yes , you could theoretically start from zero and work to get your private , instrument , commercial and/or ATP ratings with flying time in powered-lift aircraft only . If , that is , you can find a powered-lift aircraft and an instructor : an ATP requires 1500 hours of experience and doing them all in powered-lift aircraft may not be practical ( <URL> only requires 250 of them to be in a powered-lift aircraft ) . In reality , I suspect that any civilian powered-lift pilots who are not ex-military are ( or will be ) people with extensive rotorcraft and/or fixed-wing experience who then follow a training program provided by the aircraft manufacturer . Your insurance company will probably also have a say in who you hire and what experience they have . Finding and training those people wo n't be cheap , but if you 're buying up new AW609s then you can probably afford it :-)
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
Mass does n't affect the maximum distance , only the maximum endurance . For example , image two identical planes A and B : A weights 50kg less than B. Assuming no wind ( horizontal / vertical ) and speed of best glide , both gliders will land at the exact same spot . The lighter airplane A however will arrive later than B , as the speed of best glide is less than for B . In conclusion you can say , that additional mass only increases cruise speed , but not the travel distance . Glider competitions are most of the time a route you have to fly in the shortest time possible . So that means , if you have a higher speed of best glide , you can fly faster in competitions . The only downside to having a higher weight is , that your liftrate in thermals will be decreased and due to the higher speed it is harder to center the thermals . It is to some extend also possible to shift the Centre of Gravity ( CG ) with the added load . The further it is to the aft limit , the higher your maximum distance is . This is because you will have less down-force from the stabilizer required . ( If the CG is at the front limit , you will need to pull the control stick in order to fly level , therefore you have more drag ) . However I think this is rather a positive side effect and most of the time the water is used for flying faster . Source : I am a glider pilot and currently doing my ATPL training .
Airports can have a left , center and right runways . Memphis ( KMEM ) is a good example . Airports with four or more parallel runways are left and right with the numbers off by one . Los Angeles ( KLAX ) and Chicago ( KORD ) are good examples of such an arrangement .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
You would need a three-axis autopilot . The nature of an unusual attitude is that it needs corrections around all three axes .
You do n't have to be an ATP to fly an airliner . In fact , you can fly an airliner as a private pilot . John Travolta is the best example I can think of ... He has a house right by a private airport and flies his own personal Boeing 707 ( with Qantas livery ) and another jet aircraft ( Gulfstream I think ) . With any large aircraft like this over 12500 lbs or with turbojet engine ( s ) , a pilot does need a type specific rating to fly such an aircraft as well as needing to be " current " in that type , but may do so as long as current at any certificate " level " of private pilot or above . However , to fly an airliner as a scheduled air carrier pilot , then yes , an ATP is required as this type of flight would not fall under part 91 or part 135 of the FARs , but instead part 121 which requires that all pilots have ATP certificates .
For best results , put good flaps on the wing and forget using a winglet . If you insist on bending the wing up at its end , just continue with the tip airfoil and select the incidence such that your circulation distribution over the wing and winglet will become elliptical when you plot it in a straight line . The small size of your airplane implies that you will not need to unload the tips to reduce root bending moment .
( This is similar to <URL> - and see <URL> in particular - but there may be some points here that deserve a separate answer . ) First , can you use a Canadian medical instead of a US medical , with a US pilot 's certificate ? The answer is no , with one ( ? ) exception . If it were possible , then people could shop around other countries to find the easiest medical for them , which would be a huge loophole and would allow them to simply ignore the FAA 's medical requirements . As a general statement , the country of your pilot 's certificate and medical certificate must be the same . The only exception I 'm aware of is when you hold a foreign license and medical , and then ask the FAA to issue a foreign-based private certificate under <URL> . See <URL> for more information but basically , you would have to hold a Canadian pilot 's license and medical first , and even then you would be limited by the privileges of the Canadian license . Second , could you get a US commercial certificate using a Canadian medical ? Yes , but only in a very roundabout way , and even then you could n't use it . You 'd first have to get an FAA foreign-based private certificate as I described above - which means getting a Canadian license first - and that certificate would be fine to use for a US commercial checkride . However , after passing the checkride you 'd still need an FAA second-class medical to actually exercise your new commercial privileges . Finally , another option would be to get a Canadian commercial license and medical , and then fly only Canadian aircraft in the US . I have no idea how practical that is because most countries do n't allow <URL> , but maybe there 's some way to make it work . AFAIK diabetes is only disqualifying if you 're insulin-dependent ; if you 're on oral meds you may still be able to get a Special Issuance for it . If you have any doubts about your personal situation then I 'd suggest consulting an AME and/or calling AOPA , if you 're a member .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
It does decrease the value but may also be a good deal for a buyer going in for a long term purchase or a flight school leaseback machine . I would not be opposed to buying a common GA plane with missing logs provided the plane " checked out " during the prebuy . I 'd pay nothing near VRef value , however . Humid climate history , as much as could be determined , may be a non-starter . Usage of < 50hrs/yr over last 3-5 yrs would likely be a non-starter . Obvious or poorly repaired damage is a guaranteed no-go . An in-flight speed check would be mandatory as would an oil analysis on well-used oil ( > 10hrs ) . Little rubber parts like gaskets and hoses can be good " attention to deal " indicators . If the owner took care of little details the big stuff is probably fine too ( still , verify everything ! ) . Nothing wrong with missing logs as long as the price is right and a good inspection is performed . Edit : What is the subject aircraft ? The value impact will depend a great deal on how far back the logs go . If they only go back a few years on a ~ 40 year old plane then maybe a ~ 50 % cut is in the ballpark . If they go back 10yrs on the same plane then maybe ~ 30 % . Personally , I 'd make a absurdly low offer . The owner knows ( or will very quickly learn ) that he 's playing to a tiny , tiny segment of the buying market . Your borderline insulting cash offer may net you a servicable plane that will give you years of faithful service . In my experience , a common GA plane with no verifiable damage history , unremarkable avionics , and decent ( not " great " ) P&amp;I will sell for the VRef price minus 10 % , give or take a few bucks . As they say , there is only one reason a plane wo n't sell : price is wrong . As far as piecing together the history goes , check the NTSB database and google the N number . People love taking pictures of damaged planes ! The 337 CD from the feds is a given ... got ta do that . Use the 337s to track down the shops . If they 're still in business give them a call and see if thay have any additional records or information on the plane . They probably wo n't but it 's worth a shot . The 337s are also an indication of where the plane may have spent time . A bunch of 337s from AZ would give me warm-and-fuzzies . Not so much with a bunch of south FL records .
Emergency landings often dictate landing at the safest airport , not necessarily the closest one . As I said in the comments , the flight was operating IFR and had turned the window heater on presumably for anti-ice . It could be that a line of weather was preventing VFR operation at closer airports and they diverted to the closest possible VFR airport . When encountering an emergency there are things you do n't want to do . You do n't want to panic to get the aircraft down if the aircraft is perfectly flyable . You do n't want to make major configuration changes , especially multiple ones , quickly . Pilots are taught to <URL> in that order . As a pilot you should prioritize flying the plane , work the problem , and determine the safest place to put down . It is possible in this case that they could have continued IFR , but if they encountered icing below the missed approach point they would have been put in a situation with icing and no visual references . It is also possible that the pilots recognized that some electrical problem was at fault , and even without icing conditions they would want to remain VFR because they did n't trust the electrical system would continue to function throughout the IFR approach and landing .
The restriction you 're talking about does exist , but there 's no explicit wording for it . It 's described in <URL> : An applicant for a certificate or rating may use an aircraft with operating characteristics that preclude the applicant from performing all of the tasks required for the practical test . However , the applicant 's certificate or rating , as appropriate , will be issued with an appropriate limitation . One of the most fundamental tasks in the Sport Pilot PTS is ( you wo n't find it as a discrete task , but if you look at the PTS the phrase " while maintaining coordinated flight " occurs multiple times ) , and an Ercoupe without rudder pedals relieves the applicant of that responsibility because the aileron/rudder interconnect basically does it for you . I 'm not sure exactly how this works for Sport Pilots , but as you can not demonstrate to the examiner that you can " maintain coordinated flight " they could reasonably apply the same restriction to your Sport Pilot certificate as they would to a Private Pilot certificate ( " Limited to aircraft without rudder pedals " ) . You would need to demonstrate to a DPE or Examiner that you can operate an aircraft with rudder pedals at some later date to remove the restriction ( it is a restriction on the certificate so the only way to remove it is to have the certificate amended/reissued/replaced ) . The easiest way to avoid the entire issue is to prepare for and take your practical test in an aircraft with rudder pedals . You can do everything in the Ercoupe and then switch to the Cub for a week to brush up on systems and polish your maneuvers in that plane and get used to using your feet .
Yes , <URL> , former Formula 1 pilot and ATPL holder , founded <URL> , for which he also <URL> . Lauda returned to running his airline , Lauda Air , on his second Formula One retirement in 1985 . During his time as airline manager , he was appointed consultant at Ferrari as part of an effort by Montezemolo to rejuvenate the team . After selling his Lauda Air shares to majority partner Austrian Airlines in 1999 , he managed the Jaguar Formula One racing team from 2001 to 2002 . In late 2003 , he started a new airline , Niki . Lauda holds a commercial pilot 's licence and from time to time acted as a captain on the flights of his airline . Lauda Air ceased operations in July 2013 .
Without knowing German , it 's a little difficult for me to research the <URL> , but I found this application for <URL> , and one of the requirements in it is : Valid JAR-FCL Medical Class I or Class II The <URL> for a Class I and Class II medical , both are : JAR -- FCL 3.135 Cardiovascular system -- Blood pressure ( a ) The blood pressure shall be recorded with the technique given in paragraph 3 Appendix 1 to Subpart B [ at each examination ] . ( b ) When the blood pressure at examination consistently exceeds 160 mmHg systolic and/or 95 mmHg diastolic , with or without treatment , the applicant shall be assessed as unfit . ( c ) Treatment for the control of blood pressure shall be compatible with the safe exercise of the privileges of the applicable licence ( s ) and be compliant with paragraph 4 Appendix 1 to Subpart B . The initiation of [ ] [ medication ] shall require a period of temporary suspension of the medical certificate to establish the absence of significant side effects . ( d ) Applicants with symptomatic hypotension shall be assessed as unfit . It looks like you will probably need to lower your blood pressure ( either via diet and exercise or with medication ) in order to pass your medical . If you start taking blood pressure medication , you will need to take it for a certain period of time to make sure that there are no other side effects before they will give you a medical . You can discuss this with a medical examiner to see how the process works there .
Many ( especially larger ) airlines have a history and infrastructure for engines from a specific manufacturer and are unlikely to change that , the cost would extend far beyond just the cost of changing the contract . E.g. KLM has a massive investment in maintenance facilities for GE engines , workshops , spare parts warehouses , highly trained specialised technicians . Retooling to RR would be prohibitive for them . Of course a smaller operation without maintenance facilities of their own might be more flexible in that and just buy whatever is cheapest at the time , contracting out maintenance to various companies as needed . But even then , it 's often more economical to have a single maintenance provider doing all your work for you , which might well mean a provider who 's specialised in a single series of engines , for example if you 're based at Schiphol there 's a good chance you 'll be contracting out your maintenance to KLM and their GE specialised shops . So there are many good reasons for airlines to stick with a single engine supplier ( and to a degree with a single aircraft manufacturer ) , even if the cost of buying those engines is higher than selecting competing engines from another manufacturer . Say you 're going to save 0.1 % in your fuel bills for the 2 new aircraft you 're buying to increase the fleet of 20 with other engines you have already ( and that 's a big if , those engines are pretty close between manufacturers for a specific aircraft ) . You 'd need to fly a LOT for it to be worth building an entire duplicate maintenance network just for those few new aircraft . Of course if it 's part of a long term plan to replace the entire fleet with aircraft using that other manufacturer 's engines , that 's a different story . But mixed engine fleets tend not to be the most economical way to go , even if on one type manufacturer A is marginally more fuel efficient and on type B manufacturer B is marginally more fuel efficient ( and that 's what you 're going to see , marginal differences only ) . If you 're talking an operation like Delta or United , with hundreds of aircraft of each type , it might be a different story . But then too you 're talking about more aircraft with each manufacturer 's engines than most other airlines have in total , and they 'll have multiple maintenance shops themselves , making it easier to have a facility for each manufacturer ( and of course in case of the big US airlines , they tend to have ended up with that in the course of gobbling up other airlines anyway ) .
It works , but it is just the wings . For a controlled flight , we 'd need two big fans for the wings ( one for each ) , two smaller fans for the elevators , and one more for the rudder . So that 's 5 fans for each airplane . The concept of controlled flight can be demonstrated by hanging two strings to any model airplane ( plastic ones recommended , model airplanes stall just like real planes ... ) . If we want to pitch up or down , we would need at least 3 strings . Another consequence of having the fans blow air backwards across the wing is , due to action and reaction , there is a thrust pushing the plane forward . That 's not a bad thing , planes are designed to move forward to get from A to B , not create lift vertically then settle down exactly where it started . So the 5-fan plane will move forward anyway . Engineers figured out it is better to have one fan , called the " propeller " , at the nose of the plane instead of 5 .
You can not do so . A private pilot 's license - at least in the US - prohibits you from offering airman services for compensation or hire . If you intend to fly professionally , you will need at least a commercial pilot 's certificate . An instrument rating is also highly recommended as is multi engine class ratings for the greatest chances of employment . Air carrier operation will require you to hold an airline transport pilot 's license for part 121 operations .
This depends heavily on how the plane is set up especially these days with <URL> even in GA planes . For a point of reference most small GA planes like the <URL> run <URL> which usually have a bit of headroom in them but power everything and charge the battery just fine . If you want to fly in most airspace you are going to need to power at least a transponder and a radio ( more than likely two radios ) . <URL> and is fairly common in the Archers I fly . Your run of the mill <URL> radio comes in 10 and 16 watt versions . To get the total requirement just add up all of your components draw . Most manufacturers list power requirements ( or voltage and current draw requirements ) for any given piece of equipment and you will have your required power . As for De-Ice requirements this depends on <URL> . A weeping wing will only require power to drive the fluid pump and the windshield heater where as a boot style system will require enough power to drive the compressor that inflates the boots . Although its becoming increasingly more common to see FIKI on GA planes the majority of the small aircraft fleet still lacks FIKI capability .
In the US , you 'll need to be 16 old to start training and 17 to get your Private Pilot 's license in a piston-powered aircraft . To get your license you 'll have to have a minimum of 40 hours total time , including at least 20 with an instructor and 10 solo . You will also have to pass a written test , and get a Medical certificate . Details : If you 're pursuing a Private Pilot license , per 14 CFR § 61.83 ( a ) or ( b ) you must be 16 years old to get a student pilot certificate ( or 14 years old if you 're going to train in a balloon or glider . ) NOTE : 14 CFR mean Code of Federal Regulations , Title 14 - Aeronautics &amp; Space . § 61 . ## means " Part 61 " which covers Certification of Pilots and Instructors . To start training you will also have to pass a medical exam for a 3rd Class Medical Certificate , per 14 CFR § 61.23 ( a ) ( 3 ) . If you 're generally healthy , getting a 3rd Class Medical is n't terribly difficult . Assuming you successfully complete the training , per 14 CFR § 61.103 ( a ) or ( b ) you can get your Private Pilot license for an airplane at 17 years old ( or 16 years old for a balloon or glider . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) to get your license you will need to have completed at least 40 hours of flight time , including at least 20 hours of time with an instructor and 10 hours of solo time . However , many pilots take more than the required minimum 40 hours to get their license . My suggestion is to try to complete your training in as short a calendar time as is possible . By taking lessons frequently ( more than once per week ) you will minimize the amount of " repeat " lessons , which will help you get your license with fewer hours . If you 're only taking a lesson every few weeks , you will end up repeating topics and spending more than the required 40 hour minimum . Per 14 CFR § 61.35 , you will have to complete a ground school program ( can be with an instructor , or a " home study " course ) before you take the Knowledge test ( aka : written exam . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) ( 3 ) , you will need at least 3 hours of " Instrument " flight training to get your Private Pilot license . That 's really not intended to be enough for you to fly safely on instruments , but to give you a basic set of skills to get out of a low-visibility situation . If you keep up with your flying , getting in Instrument rating is a GREAT idea , once you have enough hours . You can look up the specific wording of all of the rules at <URL> Another good resource for student pilots is the Aircraft Owner 's and Pilot 's Association 's Learn to Fly page <URL> .
end question
start question
What instruments or avionics do balloons usually have ?
The magic regulation for minimum equipment on a balloon ( in the USA ) is <URL> . The FAA requires that balloons be equipped with : For all balloons [ Reserved ] An altimeter . A rate of climb indicator . For hot air balloons ( additional equipment ) : A fuel quantity gauge . An envelope temperature indicator . For captive gas balloons ( additional equipment ) : A compass . Beyond what 's required by regulation , in most free balloon operations I 've seen they also carry an aviation radio and/or a CB radio ( to communicate with their ground crew ) - this is usually a handheld transceiver . <URL> also makes for interesting reading . They talk about required and optional instruments and equipment found on various types of balloons in Chapter 2 .
Even if ATC ca n't legally give you permission to enter prohibited airspace ( they sometimes can for restricted airspace by the way ) , if you declare an emergency they will still coordinate with the controlling agency which will help to keep you safe . Squawk 7700 , fly as high as possible , turn on all your lights , broadcast your intentions on 121.5 if you are n't talking to ATC , and do n't make any sudden dives toward the ground/buildings , etc. . This will all help to show that you are n't trying to " sneak in under the radar " and can only improve your situation . Do n't be surprised if you get intercepted though , and make sure that you talk to them on 121.5 if you do . Know your <URL> and follow them exactly . They will most likely try to help you as much as possible . You will still face a lot of questions and probably even certificate action when you get on the ground though because , as you said , poor planning is no excuse ... Also , this applies in the US . Some other countries ( possibly Cuba , Iran , etc. ) tend to be far more sensitive to issues like this and may " shoot first and ask questions later " .
Yes they do . You can <URL> . That 's a failed launch from an aircraft carrier , the crew jettisoned the bombs before they ejected . More information here : <URL> , emphasis on use in aircraft carrier launches , hardpoints also carry external fuel tanks . ... if forced to land in an emergency ? If not , why ? For extreme military emergencies , which usually never end well , pilots have the option to just bail out ( eject ) and parachute to safety . For big bombers , like the B-52 , the crew can also eject . But ca n't dump fuel . <URL> But the question is about weapons , so again yes , mainly for carrier launches , else , a crew ejection is more likely . <URL> for fuel dumping by USAF planes ( USAF report , PDF ) , if interested .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
The two things are completely different and exist for different reasons : Fan and turbine blades are mounted loosely , so they can self-balance . This is because at the very high RPM fans and turbines spin at they are extremely sensitive to imbalance . On the other hand , the self-balancing only works at high RPM . It also requires the blades to be connected at the tips with the " shroud " . Rotors have lead-lag hinges because the rotor spins parallel to the flow so in forward flight the advancing blade meets the air at significantly higher speed than the retreating blade . Propellers spin slower , so they are not as sensitive to imbalance , and they do n't have the shroud , so they ca n't be mounted loosely anyway . They spin perpendicular to the airflow , so all blades meet the air at similar speed and angle of attack , so they do n't need to deal with as big differences in the aerodynamic forces . And they are smaller and more rigid .
You ask about Jeppesen in the title , but you mention ICAO in the body . Does Jeppesen show top altitude ? Yes . <URL> Top image is FAA chart , bottom is Jeppesen . Both for the LOOP SID . Does ICAO show top altitude ? The ICAO charts are produced by <URL> based on ICAO 's style if they do n't have their own . The FAA has its own format . But the answer is also yes if the top altitude is used . The top altitude was added for the climb-via instruction , which is a recent addition . Not all states ( nations ) follow the climb-via and descend-via system just yet . But those who do , <URL> .
You report unable , and ATC will come up with a different plan . To provide some context : If I ask you to expedite a vertical manoeuvre , it is probably because you are on crossing tracks with another aircraft , and I want you to pass them either above or below . This could be to meet certain level restrictions , or simply because I want to provide you with continuous climb/descend as a service . At your current rate , you will probably pass them , bot not quite with the 1000 ft vertical separation I need . Because you are so close to fitting into my plan , asking you to expedite is the easiest - it requires the least effort from me , and I wo n't have to vector you around , giving you a longer than needed flight path . If you respond with unable , I have other options to choose from , depending on the situation . Typically I would either instruct you to level off or turn . If you are descending through FL160 and I wanted you to go below someone at FL130 , I would simply instruct you to level off at FL140 , and then descend you further when you are clear , which would only take a few minutes . I could use the phrase " Stop descend FL140 , expect further descend in 3 minutes " , in which case you could adjust your vertical rate so that you reach FL140 about 3 minutes in the future , resulting in a smooth descend . Alternatively , a turn of 20-30 degrees is often enough to establish lateral separation , which then allows you to descend unrestricted . 3 or 4 minutes later , when you have passed the other traffic , you will be turned back on your track . The key thing here is communication . As an air traffic controller , when I instruct you to do something , do n't think that I do n't have backup plans . We are taught to always evaluate situations thoroughly , and come up with 2-3 different solutions to every problem or situation we face . I will start by presenting the easiest solution to you , but if that does n't work for you , please do n't be afraid of informing me - I will then simply choose another solution , and adjust my plan accordingly . And remember , air traffic control is a service . We are here to make your life easier - not the other way around . You can help us doing so by communicating clearly and in due time .
If the static port gets blocked in an aircraft with no alternate static port , you can break the glass of the VSI ( Vertical Speed Indicator ) to allow air from inside the cockpit in the static system . By doing this you will sacrifice the VSI in favour of the altimeter and airspeed indicator Due to venturi effects , air inside the cockpit has usually a slightly lower pressure than the pressure measured by the static port outside your aircraft . This causes your altimeter to indicate a higher altitude and the airspeed indicator will also indicate a greater speed . The VSI is useless after you break it . Needless to say this does not apply to pressurized cabins nor to glass cockpits ... This works because the inside of the VSI contains a diaphragm in a pressure chamber . The diaphragm is connected to the static system through an unrestricted tube . The chamber is connected to the static system through a restricted ( calibrated ) leak . If the static pressure changes , the pressure in the diaphragm changes instantly , while the chamber pressure lags slightly behind . This causes the membrane to expand / retract which drives the needle on the instrument . When the glass is broken , the chamber will be at the same pressure as the cockpit . Through the calibrated leak , the static system will be levelled with the cockpit pressure , but of course with a delay as well . The VSI will now work in opposite direction ( if you did n't destroy the needle ) . The inner workings of an IVSI Some VSI apparently have the calibrated leak into the cockpit already . For such VSI 's smashing the glass does not work . Here the diaphragm should be destroyed as well .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
VTOL aircraft can have more than one engine . It is just that the design process of the Harrier and F-35 led to a situation where only one engine was required . The main challenge in any VTOL aircraft is to have the engine produce thrust in two different phases of flight : during cruise and during takeoff/landing . This basically requires the powerplant on the aircraft to have two different characteristics at those two phases , because The direction of the thrust vector is different in TO/Landing and cruise Amount of thrust required is different ; for vertical TO , the thrust should be more than the weight while in cruise , the required thrust is ( comparatively ) pretty low . A number of approaches have been tried to solve this problem : Takeoff the aircraft vertically ( aka the tail sitter ) , like <URL> , and then transition to horizontal flight . However , one major problem is the pilot has severe disorientation problems during transition Put extra fans , like the <URL> . The problem was the large ( wing ) area taken up by the fan and weight penalties . Ironically , a similar concept has been used in F-35 Put extra engines specifically for vertical lift ( aka the ' Rolls Royce Concept ' ) , used in <URL> . Though this offered ( theoretically ) better safety , the weight penalty was too much . Optimise the main engine for cruise and deflect the thrust for takeoff and augment with ( small ) lift engines ( aka the tiltjet concept ) , like the German <URL> . This reduced the weight penalty and complexity , but reduced safety in the event of an engine failure . In order to avoid the weight penalty , the best approach is to have no extra engines at all , with the thrust deflected down at take off and landing . This was called ' vectored thrust ' ( a term attributed to Theodore Von Karman ) . This concept was tested in the <URL> , which had fixed eingines and thrust vectoring vanes that deflected the exhaust to achieve vertical lift . <URL> Source : history.nasa.gov In case of the Harrier , the engine , the <URL> was first developed ( as BE .53 ) and the Hawker aircraft decided to develop an aircraft around it . During the design proces , the aircraft was redesigned around the Hawker modified BE 53 which the rear jet was split into two , like the <URL> , which had a similar arrangement . This lead to the ' four poster ' thrust vectoring system in the Harrier . <URL> Source : www.aerospaceweb.org This is the reason , the Harrier had a single engine . The case of F-35 is different . The F-35 was designed to replace aircraft operated by a number of US services , and as such had conflicting design requirements . At one end , the USAF wanted a conventional fighter while the USMC wanted a VTOL aircraft . The USN requirements were somewhere in the middle . Lockheed designers decided that the best way to meet these requirements is to have a separate fan for lifting the aircraft in VTOL , which can simply be eliminated in the USAF and USN variants . This led to the lift fan arrangement ( eerily similar to the Vertifan arrangement ) . <URL> " <URL> " by Tosaka - Own work . Licensed under CC BY 3.0 via <URL> . So , in case of F-35 the use of a single engine was the best way to meet the requirements . The engine used , the <URL> is the most powerful fighter jet engine in service , which helps in making F-35 the first supersonic VTOL aircraft .
In the early days of aviation it was simply easier to have the gear fixed . The landing gear adds drag , but so does <URL> and <URL> . Airplanes generally did not fly very fast or far , so the drag from the landing gear ( and that other stuff ) was not a big issue . The first design with retractable gear <URL> . Since then , retractable gear has been a design decision each airplane must make . Retracting the gear into the airplane allows for a cleaner form , which reduces drag . However , this is at the expense of added weight . The retract system , which is usually hydraulic , must be added , and the plane must be designed to make room for the gear somewhere at least mostly inside the aircraft . The plane must also be designed to handle situations where some or all of the gear does not extend properly . For planes that need to be fast and/or efficient , retractable gear is worth the reduction in drag . The additional drag has to be supported by the structure as well . Aircraft with retractable gear will have a maximum speed at which the gear can be extended . Even gear with proper fairings would add significant drag at the speeds airliners fly at . This would be much more critical at supersonic speeds . In these cases the weight of reinforcing the gear could be even higher than the weight of the retracting system . Particularly smaller general aviation planes tend to not have retractable gear . The retract system adds extra weight and complexity ( and therefore cost ) , which will be fairly significant in a small plane . Fixed gear is simple and can be designed to minimize drag as much as possible . These planes do not typically need to fly fast or have large range , so the added drag is less of an issue . Other small planes do have retractable gear , which will allow for greater speed and range . The PA-32 type shown in <URL> was later produced in a <URL> as well .
For fuel , any fuel , to burn , it must be mixed with suitable amount of air . Neither too little nor too much would burn . Spark-ignition engines pre-mix the fuel with air , so they must do so in the right ratio , hence the need for mixture control ( which might be automated , but it must be there ) . However , compression-ignition ( Diesel ) engines are different . They inject fuel directly into the cylinders and as the fuel spreads from the injecting nozzle , it mixes with air and ignites at the moment it is sufficiently mixed . The cylinders always take full charge of air , otherwise the compression would not heat the air enough to ignite the fuel . At low power , the flame is only small around the nozzle and at the large power it expands to fill the cylinder , but either way there is a point where the mixture is just right and the fuel ignites . Therefore compression-ignition engines do n't need mixture control . The power lever simply controls the fuel flow into the engine and there is no throttle on the air intake ( so calling power lever ' throttle ' is inaccurate for Diesels ( and turbines ) ) .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
IATA issues duplicate airline codes to regional airlines where the codes are not likely to overlap , from <URL> : Controlled duplicates are issued to regional airlines whose destinations are not likely to overlap , so that the same code is shared by two airlines . This happens because IATA uses a 2-letter code for for airlines which has a limited range of available codes . Since NCA does n't operate a passenger service in the same region as Fika Salaama , it would be very unlikely to confuse the two .
I 've never seen " sliding " rudder pedals in a light GA plane - though there may be such designs in transport aircraft , especially fly-by-wire planes . If you 're looking for simplicity for a homebuilt aircraft or simulator I 'd go with hinged pedals pivoting at the floor similar to what you 'll find on a Piper Cub ( which can be made by welding tubes together into an shape ) , or any number of similar floor-mounted designs : <URL> <URL> ( As shown in the first picture , toe brakes can be easily retrofitted onto such a design , and as shown in the second you can mount square pedals on them if you want to , though the round bar has some advantages . )
TL ; DR : No . For the true answer refer to the FAA <URL> 777-200 2 Pratt and Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4074 , PW4074D , PW4077 , PW4077D , PW4090 , PW4084D , and PW4090-3 ( Engine Type Certificate No . E46NE ) 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-76B , GE90-85B , GE90-90B , GE90-94B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 875-17 , RB211-Trent , 877-17 , RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 892-17 , or RB211 Trent 892B-17 , RB211 Trent 895-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 777-300 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 884B-17 , or RB211-Trent 892-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 2 Pratt &amp; Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4090 , PW4098 ( Engine Type Certificate E46N ) 777-300ER 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777-200LR 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777F 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN )
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
end question
start question
How do engineers log airplane maintenance ?
To go along with @ratchet freak 's answer , machine parsing comes more into play when reporting maintenance status and readiness statistics , and for trend analysis - in other words , high-level aggregation and dissection of user-inputted data . At this level , managers are more concerned with the number of aircraft available for use rather than the last time a particular aircraft 's tires were <URL> changed . Typically , this is all done using pricy electronic logbook software , and would be used by large organizations with lots of equipment to track and the money to employ such a system . Take , for example , the United States Army . Its program of record for aviation maintenance and logistics is called Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation , or ULLS-A for short . This software suite automates a lot of the manual forms that the Army uses . At the most basic level , aircraft maintenance is recorded using DA Form 2408-13-1 , according to <URL> . The time and date of each status is compiled into a daily statistic , which is then rolled up into a monthly report , often only detailing ( aside from the hours that aircraft was available for mission ) what subsystem was responsible for the majority of each aircraft 's downtime . Here 's what a blank maintenance form looks like : As you can see , there are a multitude of blocks , each with its own list of codes . For instance , here is a list of the codes for WHEN DISC ( when discovered ) , from <URL> of DA Pam 738-751 : However , not all blocks are required to be filled out when using paper logbooks ( believe it or not , still in use in some places ) ; in addition to WHEN DISC , HOW REC , MAL EFF , WUC , ACTION CODE , and CAT are optional entries , and in practice never get used . In contrast , these are required fields in ULLS-A , and so the system provides a number of helps to the user so he does n't have to refer to the manual all the time . Overall , only these codes ( and not the free text fault/remarks block ) will be machine-parsed , for the purpose of high-level analysis to determine trends and/or systemic issues affecting the entire fleet .
Large aircraft use <URL> which uses only air , compressors and heat exchangers to cool/heat the air . There is no freon involved .
Both DUAT ( DTC ) and DUATS ( CSC ) provide the same information . They are functionally equivalent . You also left one out : Lockheed-Martin operates a web-based briefing service at <URL> . Which you prefer to use for interactive access is largely an aesthetic consideration - as a pilot you can sign up for an account on each of these services , so the usual advice is to sign up for all of them and use the one you like better ( personally I used to prefer DTC 's DUAT interface , but the direct ( 1800wxbrief . com ) system is a now my preference for web-based briefings when I 'm not using ForeFlight ) . From a non-interactive standpoint , CSC DUATS has an API that can be used by other programs ( like ForeFlight ) to receive weather/NOTAMs/etc . and to file flight plans . This can be advantageous , however Lockheed-Martin has recently ( 2013 ) implemented an XML-based API that lets application developers directly communicate with the automated flight service system , and it is likely that this will be the preferred way to handle this sort of thing as time goes on .
To go along with @ratchet freak 's answer , machine parsing comes more into play when reporting maintenance status and readiness statistics , and for trend analysis - in other words , high-level aggregation and dissection of user-inputted data . At this level , managers are more concerned with the number of aircraft available for use rather than the last time a particular aircraft 's tires were <URL> changed . Typically , this is all done using pricy electronic logbook software , and would be used by large organizations with lots of equipment to track and the money to employ such a system . Take , for example , the United States Army . Its program of record for aviation maintenance and logistics is called Unit Level Logistics System-Aviation , or ULLS-A for short . This software suite automates a lot of the manual forms that the Army uses . At the most basic level , aircraft maintenance is recorded using DA Form 2408-13-1 , according to <URL> . The time and date of each status is compiled into a daily statistic , which is then rolled up into a monthly report , often only detailing ( aside from the hours that aircraft was available for mission ) what subsystem was responsible for the majority of each aircraft 's downtime . Here 's what a blank maintenance form looks like : As you can see , there are a multitude of blocks , each with its own list of codes . For instance , here is a list of the codes for WHEN DISC ( when discovered ) , from <URL> of DA Pam 738-751 : However , not all blocks are required to be filled out when using paper logbooks ( believe it or not , still in use in some places ) ; in addition to WHEN DISC , HOW REC , MAL EFF , WUC , ACTION CODE , and CAT are optional entries , and in practice never get used . In contrast , these are required fields in ULLS-A , and so the system provides a number of helps to the user so he does n't have to refer to the manual all the time . Overall , only these codes ( and not the free text fault/remarks block ) will be machine-parsed , for the purpose of high-level analysis to determine trends and/or systemic issues affecting the entire fleet .
It was probably Engine Oil . On modern jet engines , oil is a consumable in the sense that it gets burned up and needs topping up . A new engine will require less , a high time engine more . The JT-9s on older 747 were notorious oil-guzzlers . CF-6s were a bit better but they still needed topping up after an 8 hour flight . Jet engines never get an oil change . The regular topping-up of burnt oil keeps the oil fresh and regular filter changes ensures material from engine wear is not circulated . Oil samples are taken at set intervals and sent for spectrographic analysis . Too much of a particular element will focus attention on a particular component . There are also ' Magnetic Chip Detectors ' which trap ferrous metals and this also helps to pinpoint wear in the engine .
There are a lot of possibilities to handle a broken down aircraft , depending on the location and the extent of the damage . First , to answer the question about mechanics : airlines do not keep mechanics at every airport they fly to . If the airport is a destination of a flight , it is chosen such that it is equipped to service the type of aircraft that will fly there . Repairs are done locally at the airport : after all , a Boeing 757 from Airline X is just like another Boeing 757 from Airline Y , from a maintenance point of view . Now that may not be true if the airline is flying to a remote location or a not-so-developed country . IIRC an answer from a retired 747 captain on this site states that the flight engineer is also a qualified mechanic and they carry tools in the cargo hold to deal with simple repairs . I am not sure if this practice is still in use today . If the repair can not be completed at the airport , it is usually a result a diversion , an emergency landing , or unusual damage . There are two options : either repair the aircraft on site back to service status , or patch it up temporarily so it can fly to a location where better maintenance is carried out . The airline can use whatever means to transport the necessary equipment there . However a grounded aircraft is an asset not making profit , and the quickest way to shuttle equipment is by flying . The airline may fly engineers and tools from the main hub using its own planes , or it may charter a cargo flight . If the damage is really serious , the aircraft manufacturer has an <URL> that go anywhere in the world to fix an aircraft . The team is on-call 24/7 . Members of the team are very experienced mechanics who worked at the assembly line , and they can repair almost any damage .
On some . The Fokker 100 is one , where the aeroforces on the elevator are directly fed back to the pilot . There is a hydraulic actuator helping him , but contrary to the usual solution it is a reversible system where the hydraulics merely amplifies the direct force that the pilot exerts . The F100 has manual reversion for elevators and ailerons , and it can still be flown reasonable comfortably without hydraulics . The 737 also has manual reversion , but the flight controls are quite heavy without hydraulics - it is about the largest high-subsonic aircraft that can still be hand-flown . Larger planes just have triple redundant hydraulic controls , some with q-feel which artificially replicates the higher air stiffness felt at higher airspeeds . No romantic gusty creaking for those aircraft in a museum .
You must request a <URL> from the <URL> ( Flight Standards District Office ) . You 'll need to fill out <URL> , Application for U.S. Airworthiness , appropriately calling out the reasons you need a SFP ( ferry flight , etc ) . Once the form is submitted , you may be subject to an inspection by an FAA official or representative , verifying that your aircraft is in fact <URL> . Avemco , the insurance company , has <URL> that might be worth an extended read and which I do n't intend to copy here .
It depends on the strength of the tornado and other variables , but in most cases , a plane Vs tornado will end very very badly for the aircraft and its occupants in a low altitude high speed scenario . A good example would be the <URL> , a <URL> that flew into a thunderstorm 8 minutes into takeoff and crashed after the wing was torn off . From the <URL> : At 17:12 the aircraft entered a tornado , which resulted in loads on the airframe increasing to +6.8 G and -3,2 G . The right wing was bent upwards followed by a severe downward sweep . This compromised the structural integrity of the wing , causing a large portion of the outer wing to separate in an upward and rearward motion . Control was lost and the aircraft impacted a railway bridge inverted . Everyone abroad the aircraft perished . FAA is <URL> : Pilots should observe the following rules for any flight routed even potentially near actual or possible thunderstorm activity : • Avoid all thunderstorms . And also , Although pilots have flown through limited state thunderstorms with little or no damage to the aircraft or passengers , these pilots should consider themselves extremely fortunate to be alive . ( emphasis original ) . Note : I 've used both thunderstorms and tornadoes here . <URL> defines them as : Thunderstorm : A storm ( produced by a cumulonimbus cloud ) that includes rain showers , lightning , and thunder . Tornado : A violently rotating column of air that extends down from the base of a thunderstorm to the ground .
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
I was wondering how long that it would take for this question to come up . It is the old " pitch - vs - power " airspeed control technique debate that rages throughout the aviation world . There are strong proponents of both techniques ( and they seem to view it almost as a religious debate in that the other side can never be right , no matter what ) , and both sides have good reasons for it ! Instead of saying that one is better than the other , let 's just say that they are both techniques for managing the potential energy of the airplane ( the airspeed that can be traded for altitude and vice-versa ) . In fact , this is how I like to think about it ( and do n't pick a side ) : If you change the pitch of the aircraft without changing power , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Pitch up and you lower the airspeed . Pitch down and you raise the airspeed . If you change the power setting of the aircraft without changing the pitch , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Add power and you raise the airspeed . Reduce power and you lower the airspeed . You can change both at the same time and get various results . You can end up with the same airspeed that you had before . You can end up with a lot more airspeed . You can end up with a lot less airspeed . Most often you need to change both at the same time in order to properly manage your airspeed . So basically it comes down to what you want to accomplish . If you need to change the airspeed you have two ways to do it , but used individually each comes with a side-effect . In some situations this may be okay or even desirable , but you need to be aware of what your actions are going to accomplish . Let 's look at a specific example : Sometimes , especially on an instrument approach , you want to maintain your current airspeed while changing your vertical speed . Let 's say that you are a little high on the glideslope . If you simply pitch down to recapture the glideslope , you will gain airspeed but will recapture it quickly . If you simply reduce the power to recapture the glideslope , you will lose airspeed but it will take longer than using pitch . If you want to maintain your airspeed while recapturing the glideslope ( typical on an instrument approach ) then you would pitch down and reduce power at the same time , and when you recapture the glideslope you will pitch back up to maintain it and add power to maintain your current airspeed .
There are different ways of moving flaps . The trivial case where they rotate around a hinge point which lies within the airfoil contour does not increase wing area . Fowler-type , backward-moving flaps are possible in three general ways : Douglas flap : Here the flap rotates around a single hinge line which lies substantially below the airfoil contour . As the name suggests , this is used on many Douglas Commercial aircraft . <URL> Douglas flap , left : retracted ( <URL> ) ; right : extended ( <URL> ) . Their long and narrow supports make them easy to recognize . Four - or five-bar linkages : These are mechanically more complex , but enable a more compact mechanism . As their name suggests , four or five linkages are connected with bearings and enable a more complex movement . The drawing and the animated GIF below are taken from <URL> and show the mobility m which increases with the number of joints . This would be my recommendation for a Lego model ; just make sure that the forward bar is longer than the rear bar - this will give you a realistic movement of the flap . <URL> Above : Linkage mobility ( picture <URL> ) . Below : Four bar linkage ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Sliding block guide : Here you find real rails and rollers which move along them to enable the most complex and precise movement , even for multi-element flaps . While a four-bar linkage will have a continuously increasing ratio of deflection angle to backward shift , a sliding block guide makes it possible to set the deflection angle independent of the backward shift , and allows the biggest backward shift for a given size of the mechanism . See the Boeing 747 flap tracks below for an example . <URL> Boeing 747 flap tracks ( picture <URL> ) . Note that the upper block is supporting the first flap segment and the lower block the second . Actuation is via a spindle ; the linkage in the lower left corner is actually the mechanism for moving the flap fairing .
There are multiple ways to fly and control Unmanned Aerial Vehicles ( UAV ) , or drones , for e.g. the Predator . <URL> Source : science.howstuffworks.com Some UAVs ( like the Global Hawk ) can perform the entire mission ( from takeoff to landing ) autonomously , negating the need for a pilot . Most of the UAVs , like Predator can perform ( i.e. fly in ) some simple missions ( like reconnaissance ) autonomously . In case a geostationary satellite is used for communication with the UAV , the latency is around 300 ms ( The electromagnetic waves have to travel ~ 70000 km ) . In case of other delays ( like equipment etc. ) this will not be greater than 500 ms or around half a second . This is not significant in case of slow moving systems like Predator ( they are not dog-fighting , after all ) and the ' pilot ' can effectively control the aircraft . The only situation where this is a problem is when the UAV is taking off/landing and in this case , the control is handed over to local LoS operators . The Predator is reported to have a ' latency ' of around two seconds , which causes problems during takeoff/landing . According to the <URL> , But the two-second delay between a pilot moving a joystick in Nevada and an aircraft responding in Afghanistan is enough to cause a crash during take-off and landing . Crews in Afghanistan control ' launch and recovery ' through direct contact with antennae on the aircraft . Half an hour after take-off , control of the Reaper is handed to a crew in Nevada ; half an hour before landing , it returns to the crews on the ground in Kandahar . Note that the RAF also does things the same way . According to the report on <URL> , Although the personnel will be permanently based at RAF Waddington , some will go to Afghanistan to control the take-off and landing of the drones locally .
I 'll limit my answer to single-engine seaplanes as I 've never flown a multi-engine seaplane . Typically there is no need to stay stationary in the water when doing a run-up . Just do it while taxiing to your takeoff path , or you can do it on your takeoff path . If the takeoff path is n't long enough to do the run-up and then continue along the path for the takeoff , you can turn around , taxi back along the takeoff path , and then takeoff . At typical run-up power settings , if you hold full up elevator , the airplane will simply mush along on the water since you wo n't have anywhere near enough power to get it up on the step . In other words , you wo n't be going very fast . When giving floatplane instruction , one of the first things I tried to impress on students was to not think in terms of the constraints of straight , hard-surface , defined runways , taxiways and the like . There 's no need , typically , to taxi in a straight line , make well-defined taxiing turns , and no need to takeoff in a straight line . Once away from the dock or beach , the airplane is going to weather vane unless you actively oppose that , and that weathervaning is going to have a component caused by the current , if any , of the water you 're on . In my experience , most of the time the takeoff path was either dictated directionally ( a river ) or pretty much wide open ( lake or reservoir ) . For new students in my area , reservoirs were preferred . More often than not , it was a matter of getting a short ways off the dock , do the checks other than the run-up while moving away from the shore at a 90 degree angle more or less , lift the water rudder , bring the stick all the way back , and do the run-up , all the while letting the aircraft weathervane into the wind . Then just takeoff . I never flew a twin-engined seaplane , but I see no reason why you could n't bring both engines up to the run-up rpm , do the checks on one and then the other . While checking the mags , carb heat , and props , there would be a little asymmetrical thrust , but not enough that the rudder could n't handle that .
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
Warning N ° 1 : I 'll avoid energy conservation , but can not set aside mass conservation obviously . Warning N ° 2 : Both speed and pressure settle in a way that abides the laws of physics . It 's not like one settles first , then the second follows . Do n't let my wording fool you . Warning N ° 3 : I wo n't consider temperature in addition to speed , density and pressure . It 's too much for an explanation . There are many , many ways of seing this . The wrong but easy answer People who ' simply ' say : Velocity goes down and pressure goes up . Are , often , wrong . This only holds in perfect , incompressible , irrotational flows and is known as <URL> . If my ( French ! ) aerodynamics teacher heard anyone mention it , that person would probably lose points ! These conditions are often far from reality so the consequences do n't hold every time . However it can be used as a guideline to get a gut feeling about a low-Mach flow . ( Note in locally supersonic flows , the exact opposite might apply , so this warning is legit ! ) Energy The easiest answer is energy conservation . You mentioned you wanted another : I understand the energy conservation So I 'll pass . Forces Your nozzle is a convergent manifold , your diffuser is divergent . One acts exactly opposite to the other ( just reverse the time in steady flow ) so I 'll address convergent axisymmetric shallow nozzles . Shallowness means speed is quasi-axial everywhere . Furthermore , in aviation we are concerned with planes , so I 'll assume the intake velocity is constrained and can not go down . Let 's get to equilibrium first . Now try to cram a still fluid through a restricting pipe . It wo n't like it , and will resist ( inertia , plus the surface pressure of the nozzle 's axial component , etc. see ? Forces ! ) , thereby increasing its pressure . This pressure increase will propagate to the whole intake and raise that pressure . And now the intake has everything it needs to push the whole fluid forward : high intake pressure P0 constrained intake speed V0 So the fluid effectively moves through the pipe . How to describe the equilibrium First off , any radial section of fluid has quasi-uniform pressure , otherwise the fluid would pick up a large radial speed , so we would not be at equilibrium yet . Next , apply conservation of mass . It forces conservation flow throughout any section of fluid with . If frontal area is restricted , then either or both speed and density must increase . The amount by which each increases depend on the fluid 's properties ( compressibility etc ) . So here you go : speed must increase in the convergent nozzle . Also as a by-product , density may increase . How does that happen ? Simply , a force must push the fluid . Remember the intake has very high pressure necessary to maintain steady-flow ? Well that pressure is propelling the fluid ( and there must be a low pressure at the tighter end ( exit ) as well ) . If we do a static analysis of a thin section of fluid , it has low speed behind , high speed in front , so each molecule is accelerating . The section behind provides high pressure , that pressure translates into an axial force , the molecules accelerate . The section in front has lower pressure , and does n't push back as much . That pushing-forward-hard/not-pushing-back - as-much is the pressure differential . So along the flow , we should see the pressure decreases . There you go , I 've used : steady-flow assumption conservation of mass second law of Newton Look Ma , no energy ! P.S sorry if I sound like I talk to a 5 y.o. !
It used to be worse . ( Comforting , I know ) Back in the day ( 1956 ) , commercial airliners traveling coast to coast would often give their passengers a little tour of the Grand Canyon on the way to their destination ( air travel was still a novelty ) . When a <URL> between two passenger planes occurred , the government invested in a $ 250 million upgrade ( 1960 dollars ! ) of the air traffic control ( ATC ) system . One could say that the crash resulted in the 1958 creation of the Federal Aviation Agency ( now Administration ) to oversee air safety . One of the things the FAA did was create a Special Flight Rules Area ( SFRA ) around the Grand Canyon and make a specific chart just for the area . Additionally , they created approved commercial tour routes ( see the orange routes below ) <URL> In addition to commercial sight-seeing tours being more regulated , there is a lot more training , documentation and procedures available for pilots with the main interest being safety . For example , the following notice is printed on the chart ( References <URL> which gives minimum altitude restrictions , both for safety and noise abatement ! ) <URL> <URL> And of course , as mentioned in another answer , commercial operators , even if they are operating what looks like a " small private plane " are subject to increased mechanical inspections and regulations . One thing to look for when you arrive is the level of professionalism exhibited by the crew ( it might just be a single pilot ) , but also the people checking you in and working with you to get you on your flight . There is something called a " culture of safety " in aviation that , while the unforeseen can always happen , if there is a culture of safety , preventable incidents can be minimized or eliminated .
Non-holographic radar systems such as those used in fighter aircraft and active guided missiles only point in one direction at a time . Normally , when the radar is in search mode , a mechanism inside the radar makes the beam move from side to side ( possibly up and down as well ) , so it has a wider field of view and can pinpoint the direction of any aircraft it finds . The aircraft with the radar warning receiver ( RWR ) sees a brief pulse of radiation every second or so : only when the beam is pointing in its direction . This way , it knows the radar emitter is in search mode , and the direction of the emitter . Every aircraft in the radar 's field of view will see the beam at different times , and they will all see the radar on their RWR screens . In a combat zone this is potentially a lot of emitters , but the RWR can analyse the radar signal to identify the radar : what type of aircraft , SAM , or ground radar it is , and whether it 's friendly or enemy . Getting the position of the target only every second is n't good enough to guide a missile towards it . When the radar is in track or launch mode , it stops scanning the beam , and keeps it pointed at the target aircraft . The RWR on the target aircraft now sees much faster pulses of radiation , so it knows that it is the sole target of the radar . At this time , it can warn the pilot of a missile lock . But because the radar is now only pointing in this one direction , other aircraft in the area do n't get illuminated by radar at all . Their RWR systems wo n't pick anything up . Only the aircraft that 's actually threatened gets the missile lock warning . In addition , the same analysis that can identify what type of radar is illuminating the aircraft can also identify fully active radar-guided missiles . Like when the aircraft 's radar is in track or launch mode , the missile 's radar emitter only points in one direction , and does n't scan , so only the target aircraft will see it . Obviously it 's a little bit more complicated than this . There are a lot of details about how frequent the radar pulses are , and how the RWR knows the range of the source , but I hope I 've captured all the important information in an understandable way .
end question
