start question
What mode is the Boeing 777 's autothrottle in right after touch down ?
During the flare somewhere between 25 ' and 50 ' , the A/T retards the thrust levers to idle . They remain in idle mode until reverse thrust is selected which automatically disconnects the A/T . In the case of Emirates 521 , eyewitnesses observed the aircraft do a bounced landing and then attempt a go-around reaching a max altitude of about 150 ' . Because the aircraft had touched down , it can be assumed the A/T had automatically gone to idle , and it appears the thrust levers were not manually advanced . The aircraft then settled back on the runway as the gear was being retracted . More speculation here : <URL> a pilot colleague observed exactly what happened as he was there , waiting in his aircraft to cross runway 12L . The B777 bounced and began a go-around . The aircraft reached about 150 feet ( 45 metres ) with its landing gear retracting , then began to sink to the runway . This suggests that the pilots had initiated a go-around as they had been trained to do and had practised hundreds of times in simulators , but the engines failed to respond in time to the pilot-commanded thrust . Why ? Bounces are not uncommon . They happen to all pilots occasionally . What was different with the Emirates B777 bounce was that the pilot elected to go around . This should not have been a problem as pilots are trained to apply power , pitch up ( raise the nose ) and climb away . However pilots are not really trained for go-arounds after a bounce ; we practise go-arounds from a low approach attitude . Modern jets have autothrottles as part of the autoflight system . They have small TOGA ( take off/go-around ) switches on the throttle levers they click to command autothrottles to control the engines , to deliver the required thrust . Pilots do not physically push up the levers by themselves but trust the autothrottles to do that , although it is common to rest your hand on the top of the levers . So , on a go-around , all the pilot does is click the TOGA switches , pull back on the control column to raise the nose and -- when the other pilot , after observing positive climb , announces it -- calls " gear up " and away we go ! But in the Dubai case , because the wheels had touched the runway , the landing gear sensors told the autoflight system computers that the aircraft was landed . So when the pilot clicked TOGA , the computers -- without him initially realising it -- inhibited TOGA as part of their design protocols and refused to spool up the engines as the pilot commanded .
The gulf region is very hot , something that can reduce aircraft performance . The 777-9 is better able to cope with that ( due to the higher thrust from the engines and larger wing area ) .
The competing companies ( ones that elected to compete anyway , more were invited ) were Lockheed with two submitted designs , Boeing with one design , Chase Aircraft with three designs , Douglas with three designs and Airlifts Inc with one design . As far as I can tell , these were just designs and Lockheed won the contest based entirely on paper . The YC-130 was ordered and after performance was verified , it went into production in 1954 . It does n't look like there is any public information on the competing designs since they did n't leave the drawing board . It is unlikely that any of them are " clean sheet " designs . The Boeing submission was probably ( and this is a personal guess ) based on the <URL> . The C-130 itself looks to be an up-scaled version of the <URL> with design elements from the <URL> ( which was developed into the C-123 ) . I 'm not sure what you mean by " justifications for the Lockheed design " . Given that it is the United States military 's most successful aircraft design ever , with 60 years of continuous service , I 'm sure every design was driven by a contract or performance requirement . <URL> that gives some insight into the project . Most of this information was taken from the <URL> .
how does it not immediately start spinning ? Physics , and engineering . But I guess that you would like a bit more detail , so let 's try dive in . wheel brakes They tend to have a stabilizing effect by shifting some of the weight on the front wheel and allowing the pilots to control the aircraft with more effectiveness . spoilers These are automatically controlled by the Fly-by-Wire system , so if required they would be retracted . thrust reversers If they are functioning properly , the resulting force will go through the vertical plane containing the C.o.G. ( but a bit below it ) , so they do not pose much of a problem . Another thing you have not mentioned , but I am going to add , is crabbed landings ( such as <URL> ) , since in these situations the aircraft DO tend to spin a little . In these cases , in the timeframe between touchdown and braking , 2 things help the aircraft remain on the runway : the vertical tail ( with the rudder ) , and the position of the main landing gear w.r.t. the center of gravity of the aircraft . As it can be seen in <URL> taken from the lecture notes of the course I followed ( the title translates to " Braking run in crabbed landing " ) , normal tricycle gear aircraft tend to be stabilized by their own landing gear in this situation , while the same can not be said for old school taildraggers . So , what really could cause a problem ? The answer is wind gusts ( especially if the wind is perpendicular to the runway ) , uneven conditions of the runway ( say , a puddle or a thin layer of ice on one side of the runway will cause one set of main gear to have less grip than its counterpart on the other side , causing a yawing towards the side with more grip ) , asymmetrical failures in the thrust reversers , excessive braking while also turning the aircraft to realign to the centerline ( particularly a problem if the distance between the two main gears is not sufficient ) . How does the aircraft remain on the runway despite these possible problems ? At high speeds , thanks to the vertical tail ; and at low speeds thanks to the front nose gear . At in-between speeds , the situation is slightly more complicated : the tail is not much useful anymore , while the front gear would risk breaking if used to correct too much . So , for example , a FbW system can help through the asymmetrical use of spoilers . An example of what could happen , but seen during a take-off , is illustrated <URL> ( video kindly provided by MichaelK in chat ) .
<URL> : McCall 's plane is a demilitarized Douglas A-26 Invader , a type used in WWII . Since the film was made in 1960 , I imagine there were plenty of them around . ( The A-26 was known a the B-26 from 1948 to 1965 , <URL> . The B-25 is easily distinguished because it has the twin tail . )
A lot of this has to do with whether or not you 're talking to ATC . If you 're talking to ATC and your Mode C disappears or goes insane they 'll ask you to report your altitude ( and if your Mode C altitude reporting is wildly off they 'll probably tell you something like " Stop altitude squawk - altitude differs by 500 feet " . This is your cue to take the plane to an avionics shop and have the system checked/serviced , and not to attempt to enter B or C airspace , or fly above 10,000 MSL , until its fixed . In most cases ATC will continue to work you in the system until you are clear of the Mode C veil ( possibly expediting your exit if having no altitude readout on your target is messing up their day ) because it 's better to be talking to you than not . If you 're not talking to ATC things get a bit more complex : If your Mode C altitude readout is missing ATC will generally report you as " traffic , altitude unknown " to other aircraft and apply lateral separation exclusively ( nobody is allowed within the minimum lateral separation distance of your target unless they have you in sight and can maintain visual separation ) . If/When other pilots spot you ATC will usually ask them for your type and altitude so they have some idea of who you are and what you 're doing . If your encoder or transponder is malfunctioning and reporting an incorrect altitude that 's substantially more dangerous : ATC has no way of verifying your altitude other than asking you ( or another pilot ) , so they 'll be maintaining separation based on an incorrect altitude . This is why even VFR aircraft equipped with Mode C need an encoder check . In this case ATC will find out about a malfunction when you 're called as traffic to someone and they respond with " Is that my traffic above/below me ? "
The published Maximum Operating Mach number ( MMO ) for the B747 is Mach 0.92 but it can sometimes be exceeded accidentally due to aircraft upset . It has been reported that Mach 0.99 was attained during a Boeing test flight in a slight nose down attitude . The A380 has a slower MMO of Mach 0.89 The actual true airspeed of a Mach number will depend on the temperature and altitude but at 35,000 feet Mach 0.92 would be about 530 Knots . ( 610 mph )
If what you 're asking is to see groundspeed history of a certain type of aircraft , you can choose a type here : <URL> Then follow the links to see its flight track history as shown here : <URL>
Some comments state this was a wind-shear , is that correct ? Looking at the windsock which appears in the right bottom corner at 0:12 and remains visible for about 4 seconds , you can tell there is little wind , not what you would associate with wind shear . I want to ask here , what caused this very bumpy landing ? It is always hard to judge the actions of the pilots without knowing what was going on in the cockpit , and what control inputs were given . But by looking at the position of the control surfaces I am fairly sure that this is a case of <URL> . I.e. the pilot tries to correct a disturbance but his efforts cause the aircraft to overshoot to the other side of the desired attitude , leading to an increasing series of corrections in opposite directions . It seems to me that the flare is a tad early , causing the aircraft to float over the runway . At the same time several cycles of alternating roll inputs are given , causing increasing oscillations . I could distinguish at least 3 full cycles before touchdown . Every cycle is a bit stronger than the previous one . The last right-wind-down command before touchdown is strong enough for all the starboard spoiler to deflect . This , combined with the low speed due to early flare causes the right wing to loose most of its lift . The aircraft touches down hard on its right gear first . At the moment of touchdown , the roll command is strongly left wing down as can be seen from the spoiler extension on the left wing . With almost no lift on the left side and standing on the right gear , the aircraft rapidly rolls to the left . The left roll is then counteracted again with right ailerons up but too late ; the right gear lifts of again . When then right gear touches for the second time , still a right wing down command is given , causing the right roll to continue . This process of chasing the roll is continued and mixed with similar behaviour in pitch . Command right wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command left wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command right wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command left wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command right wing down , right spoiler deflection . Touch right gear down , left wing down , left spoiler deflection . This causes a rapid left roll . Touch left gear down , right gear looses contact , right side spoiler deflection . This causes a rapid right roll . Halfway the roll to the right , all main wheels are on the ground . Instead of damping the roll by left deflection , a right roll is still commanded . This continues down the runway , also combined with pitch oscillations . Every time the pilot corrects , he is essentially too late to damp the oscillations . Is required by rule to make a maintenance check after such a landing ? If a hard landing is made , the aircraft will detect that by itself and will send a report to maintenance if a hard landing check is required . See <URL> .
The Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance ( SCAP ) interface is a standardised model for calculating aircraft performance of air transport category aircraft . The SCAP standard is <URL> and leading aircraft manufacturers . From the IATA website : One particularly complex requirement is the calculation of takeoff performance data . Most airlines use programs supplied by the airplane manufacturers for each airplane type , and interface these programs with their own computer operating environment , airfield database , and data output format requirements . In order to reduce the development effort for the airlines ( interfacing with different airplane manufacturers ' programs ) and manufacturers ( meeting individual airline requirements for customer-specific features ) there are clear advantages in standardizing as much as possible the input/output features of these programs , and also data formats . Having recognised this potential benefit , IATA , ATA and several manufacturers set up a Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance Task Force ( SCAP TF ) . A SCAP module is a FORTRAN program that implements the SCAP standard . It takes a set of well defined inputs to produce a well defined output . The advantage of this approach is that it is possible for a third party to design a software program that requires aircraft performance data without having access to this proprietary data . The software can then be used for aircraft performance calculations of any aircraft as long as it has access its SCAP modules . There are 6 SCAP specifications for Takeoff , Landing , Climbout , Inflight , Noise and APM ( Aircraft Performance Monitoring ) . I do n't have access to the official SCAP specification , but from what I can find online I gather that for take-off performance the following is required : TODA ( Take-Off Distance Available ) TORA ( Take-Off Run Available ) ASDA ( Accelerate Stop Distance Available ) runway elevation runway surface condition runway heading wind speed and direction ambient Temperature QNH MEL/CDL items affecting performance max take-off thrust and reduced ( FLX ) option anti-icing options flap settings V1/VR ( fixed or opt ) V2/VS ( fixed or opt ) minimum acceleration altitude actual take-off weight I gather the landing SCAP module needs : LDA ( Landing Distance Available ) runway surface condition runway elevation runway heading wind speed and direction ambient temperature MEL/CDL items affecting performance approach type ( CAT I/II/III ) anti-icing options presence of residual ice flap setting ( fixed or opt ) expected landing weight
It depends on the seat . Most modern seats , including the ACES II system common in US Fighter Jets , fall away from the pilot at a pre-determined altitude . <URL> Once out of the plane , a drogue gun in the seat fires a metal slug that pulls a small parachute , called a drogue parachute , out of the top of the chair . This slows the person 's rate of descent and stabilizes the seat 's altitude and trajectory . After a specified amount of time , an altitude sensor causes the drogue parachute to pull the main parachute from the pilot 's chute pack . At this point , a seat-man-separator motor fires and the seat falls away from the crewmember . The person then falls back to Earth as with any parachute landing . Generally , according to that link , this occurs at just over 100-200 feet above ejection height . However , if you eject at high altitude , such as Captain Scott O'Grady did ( 26,000 ft ) , the seat will fall away on a sensor ( either 10,000 or 18,000 feet , I do n't recall which ) . The chute may open automatically , or if it is not set to at that height , you can then pull the chute manually , or wait until its set height to open .
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
What does svc tar/ssr u/s mean ? Terminal area surveillance radar and secondary surveillance radar ( raw radar return and the secondary return from your transponder ) is unserviceable . If you were VFR you could practice the approaches without ATC radar vectoring , or ATC could give you a non-radar routing via an airway , then transition route , then the instrument approach procedure . In other words , the area for the time being ( NOTAM period ) has no radar . Non-radar procedures would be utilized . If the local ATC area was normally a radar environment and the radar equipment was taken down for preventive maintenance ( for example ) , providing separation for practice approaches may be more than they are willing to do . In the US ATC system , controllers are initially trained , tested , and qualified using a non-radar environment at the FAA Academy . Non-radar approach control is infrequently necessary in actual operation ( unless it is in an area where radar coverage is not available full time , which is becoming rare in the US ) . Call the local ATC Approach Control in the area you are referring to and see what services they can provide .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
This answer was difficult to find as both Flight Operation Manuals and Maintenance Manuals did not say . The only guidance was found in the system description provided by the OEM of the BCSU . I am not mentioning the fleet type because at some point the detailed description might become proprietary . According to the description I found for a given automatic braking system is that it is armed when the pilot presses one of the three pushbutton switches which set the auto-brake level . The system will only arm if gear up is not commanded , there is hydraulic pressure as needed , and no existing faults exist that prohibit normal braking , as well as a few other computers available on the associated data bus . There is nothing that says the system ca n't be armed after touchdown , however the system will only engage when the spoilers are being activated , or are activated . Or more precisely from the black-box point of view automatic braking is engaged whenever two spoiler signals in three appear once automatic braking has been armed . In other words , once armed , the automatic braking will only engage if spoilers are sending the signal that they are being activated , or are activated . It specifically says that the pilot can select another pushbutton switch even after arming . The BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task . Automatic braking is released whenever the braking sequence is interrupted : when an arming condition disappears , when an engaging condition disappears , when one or both brake pedals are held down beyond the defined threshold , when the selected pushbutton is pressed again . The question , therefore is ' After you have already armed at a given setting and the system is actually engaged , because the spoiler actuation has initiated auto-braking , what happens when you press another setting ? ' As long as the arming conditions still exist , which in most cases would , and as long as the engage conditions exist , as would be the case if the spoilers are activated ( at least 2 of three spoiler signals being sent to the BSCU ) , then yes , you may change the setting after touchdown and the BSCU acknowledges this new command and executes the corresponding task .
Yes , but you need <URL> . A rigid head does not have any hinges , instead , the blades flex up and down . Wings do n't know or care if they are upside down or right way up , indeed , <URL> . It only cares how much airflow there is and at what angle it hits it . Here 's an <URL> and a <URL> Perhaps the best around is <URL> Here , Dennis Kenyon shows <URL> He gets close to inverted but never actually flips over .
You are right , propeller noise is dominant in case of GA aircraft , but not all propellers make the same noise . Much depends on blade loading and tip speed - making the propeller larger and letting it turn more slowly will improve efficiency and reduce noise . This has worked very convincingly for model aircraft over the last 30 years . GA engines are normally ungeared , so their propeller speed and diameter are the same . Switching to a geared IC engine like a <URL> not only makes the engine lighter but also the propeller less noisy . Switching to an electric motor , which can produce high torque at low speed , will allow to exploit this effect to the fullest . Other sources of noise will profit from electrification , too . The exhaust noise will be completely avoided , and airframe vibrations will be greatly reduced . Radiator noise will fall away , too . It is a small source of noise , but every bit counts . What will be left is the noise of the slower propeller ( s ) and aerodynamic noise . Now landing gear retraction would be the next big step in noise reduction .
If a " terrorist takeover " like this were to happen in the real world ... ... and the tower still had communication capability : The tower controllers would advise pilots of the situation , and likely instruct them to return to the Approach frequency to coordinate their next steps ( probably a landing at an alternate airport ) . Presumably the tower would still have telephone communication as well , and be able to let Approach know to expect the planes to come back because of the emergency , otherwise the pilots would certainly inform the approach controllers of what 's going on when they switch back to that frequency . ... and the tower has no communication capability : With no response from the tower the usual thing for pilots to do is return to the Approach frequency to find out what 's going on . The pilots could elect to attempt a landing anyway , treating the airport as an untowered field ( this somewhat famously happened at KDCA , <URL> ) , or proceed to an alternate airport . If the weather required an instrument approach and the ILS radio signals are not transmitting this would be something the pilots could detect pretty easily ( similarly if they were turned off while flying the approach there would be indications in the cockpit that the signal was lost and the pilot would execute the missed-approach procedure ) , and they would proceed to an alternate airport , again coordinating with the approach controllers . ... in any case : No matter what the situation the aircraft would divert to their alternate airports long before they were in danger of running out of fuel . They would notify ATC of the situation and proceed to an alternate airport . ( If not cleared by ATC to proceed to an alternate at some point any sane pilot will declare an emergency for low fuel and proceed on their emergency authority to make a safe landing somewhere . ) So basically there 's some " artistic liberties " taken in Die Hard 2 in the interest of making it a movie you 'd want to sit through . A movie where a bunch of terrorists take over an airport and a bunch of flights divert to alternate airports ( mildly inconveniencing the passengers ) while the National Guard surrounds the airport and deals with the terrorists would n't sell nearly as many tickets !
end question
start question
What is motive flow and why is it used in some aircraft hydraulic systems ?
Motive flow is required in design of ejector pumps in fuel system . Ejector pumps ( also known as jet pumps or eductor pumps ) have no moving parts and therefore represent a highly reliable , low cost means to move fuel in an aircraft . All jet pumps contain the physical characteristics illustrated in below figure . <URL> In this pump , the motive flow comes from a high pressure source such as a primary boost pump , or the returned fuel from the engine . When the high pressure motive flow passes through the throat it creates a suction which sucks fuel from its neighborhood and the total fuel flow are sent to another location . The overall efficiency of an ejector pump is low when compared to electric motor powered pumps but they are frequently used due to their extremely long life , high reliability and low cost . The ejector pumps generally are used for two functions : Ejector pumps are often used to provide the primary fuel boost function in smaller transport aircraft applications such as business jets and regional aircraft . In order to minimize the unusable fuel , scavenge pumps are often employed to suck up fuel from the remote corners of fuel tanks and to discharge this fuel at the inlet to the main feed pump ( s ) . Ejector pumps are used for this purpose and the motive flow for these scavenge devices may be taken from the feed pump outlet if other motive sources are not available . Note : Most of above material are from : Langton , R. ( 2009 ) . Aircraft fuel systems . Chichester , U.K Wiley .
For the aviation industry , flammability is a major concern , and aviation hydraulic systems require Fluids that can not burn yet do n't create corrosion and still lubricate . <URL> for instance is a phosphate based ester , a nasty substance that irritates the skin , but at least has some flame resistance . Old hydraulic motion systems on simulators used the stuff , later ones went to mineral oils like Shell Tellus . If there is an oil leak in a pressure hose , a fine mist of fluid droplets appears , flammable if mineral oil but this could be handled in a ground facility with extinguishers everywhere . Not a good circumstance in an aviation accident though , and that is why in aircraft the esters have to be used . Vegetable oils are not used for hydraulic systems in the aviation industry at this moment as far as I am aware .
Yes , this is the system used on the Boeing 737 . As the document mentions , it is similar to the system design on the Boeing 757 and 767 models .
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
From " Smart Cockpit " <URL> ( PDF ! ) <URL> AFDS Status Annunciation The following AFDS status annunciations are displayed just above the PFD attitude display : • FLT DIR ( the flight director is ON and the autopilots are not engaged ) • A/P ( the autopilots are engaged ) • LAND 3 ( three autopilots are engaged and operating normally for an automatic landing ) • LAND 2 ( AFDS redundancy is reduced ; in some cases , only two autopilots are available ) • NO AUTOLAND ( the AFDS is unable to make an automatic landing ) . With a LAND 3 indication , the autopilot system level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not prevent the autopilot system from making an automatic landing ( fail operational ) . With a LAND 2 indication , the level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not cause a significant deviation from the flight path ( fail passive ) . An EICAS message is displayed for any fault which limits the capability of the automatic landing system . Aural alerts for EICAS messages not affecting safety of flight are inhibited until after touchdown . Changes in autoland status below 200 feet , other than a transition to NO AUTOLAND status , are inhibited . From Chapter 9 , pages 22-23
There are many reasons an airline may fly to a given destination and the economics of air travel are complex to say the least . I would like to fist address your question could n't the people living around Bologna take a train to Milan to get to Dubai Sure they could but airlines do n't only service locations because of the people that live there they may service them for the very people that do n't . I fly both commercially and as a GA pilot to explore new places . I generally fly out of the Philadelphia area which is one of the busiest in the US . From there I head to plenty of tiny airstrips all over the place , none of these airstrips are in towns that are as economically prosperous or busy as Philadelphia but they see my travel because I wish to explore the area . The same goes for foreign airports , simply because a country is less economically prosperous or " busy " than another does not mean it has less to offer culturally and in fact may be a hot bed for tourism . I have personally been to both Prague and Bologna and they are great cities both with large tourist markets . I can see it being very economical to fly a wide body airliner there full of tourists and maybe only a few locals . While layovers may attract the lower budget fliers there are plenty of people who prefer a direct flight for both the convenience and time savings . You may be able to find more <URL> .
It is n't ( much ) . Ships are the most similar thing to aircraft that existed before them , so it made sense that aviation took over many terms and conventions from seafaring ( the pilot in command is called captain , the <URL> is the flight deck , distances and speeds are given in nautical miles and knots etc. ) However since there is no physical port in an aircraft to serve as reference ( most aircraft have doors on both sides ) , everybody has to learn to give the sides relative to the direction of flight and then it does not make sense to teach them new words when they already know " left " and " right " . So " port " and " starboard " are only used where there is a naval tradition . I know British military aviation ( RAF ) used it ( in wartime stories and documents it is common , but according to Simon 's comment it is not common any more ) and the US Navy uses it with ships , but I do n't know to what extent they apply it to aircraft . However , it remains popular in simulator games , presumably because it is catchy and unusual and using jargon makes people feel special .
Basically , it 's a combination of historical significance , passenger comfort , and ease of mental calculation . Historically , before aircraft were pressurized a rapid descent would be uncomfortable for passengers . At the speeds typically flown , a 300ft/min descent was deemed to be comfortable enough for the typical passenger . Many aircraft had a cruising speed between 100 -- 120 miles per hour ( 160 -- 190 km/h ) . Three miles would be traveled in about 1.5 -- 1.8 minutes , resulting in a rate of descent of about 550 -- 660 feet per minute . That was about as fast as passengers could comfortably adapt to the changing pressure on their eardrums . However , many pilots used a 300-feet-per-minute descent rate because doing so is almost unnoticed by passengers . A pilot cruising at 10,500 feet would calculate that in order to be at 1,000 feet at his destination , he would have to descend 9,500 feet . Dividing 9,500 feet by 300 feet per minute , that descent would require about 32 minutes . If his ground speed was 120 miles per hour ( 190 km/h ) , he would begin his descent about 64 miles ( 103 km ) from his destination ( traffic permitting ) . As you can see , there is a reasonably simple mental calculation that can be done there . This is commonly referred to as <URL> which is in part quoted above . That covers descent from cruising altitude , however you are right that flight in IFR will depend on procedures , and scenario . An example is <URL> which uses a much steeper descent profile of 5.5 degrees on approach to land .
In the real aircraft that checklist item would mean bringing the thrust lever of the engine to be started up out of and to the position . This would be accomplished by physically moving the thrust lever forward slightly out of the detent . However , in the computer flight sim for which the linked checklist provides guidance , the position of the thrust levers is not simulated . Instead , thrust lever positions below idle command reverse thrust . For this reason , the checklist calls for using the computer keystroke to command fuel flow on . This keystroke combination commands in simulated piston aircraft . In the real Lear 45 , fuel flow and scheduling during start is controlled by the Digital Electronic Engine Control ( DEEC ) . For this reason , the start checklist calls for setting the appropriate thrust lever to idle prior to commanding engine spool up in preparation for the DEEC to automatically start actual fuel flow once the appropriate compressor speed is achieved . It is worth noting that after initially setting the thrust lever to -- or hitting on your computer -- the fuel flow indication should read zero . The check for appropriate positive fuel flow comes later in the start sequence . Compared to setting the thrust lever to in the Lear 45 , the analogous control command for starting most piston engines would be mixture to and for most turboprop aircraft would be fuel condition lever to or similar .
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
A moderately quick search reveals a <URL> <URL> <URL> and an <URL> . From these I understood that : The hydraulic jack stall occurs when the aerodynamic force on the rotor blades exceeds the force the hydraulic actuator can apply . The actuators are controlling pitch of rotor blades and are applying force to keep the angle of attack high . When the angle of attack gets too high the blades stall which is associated with change in centre of lift creating a moment trying to rotate the blade to lower angle of attack , strong enough to overpower the actuator . The right pitch moment is because the retreating blades have higher angle of attack and approach stall earlier . The forward pitch moment is when the stall happens in higher G manoeuvre where the helicopter is pitching up and thus the blades in front are running at higher angle of attack and approach stall earlier . If the stall happens due to overspeed , the pitch moment will be back instead . In either case it will be opposite to the selected cyclic . The down collective moment is because the angle of attack decreases on the forward ( or backward ) and right blades , but does not increase on the other ones , so the total lift is reduced . The behaviour can be considered a good thing as it prevents aerodynamic stall from fully developing . The effect is also similar to what would happen if the actuators were more powerful and aerodynamic stall did fully develop . It can however be more surprising for the pilot since it may happen before vibrations that normally indicate incipient aerodynamic stall . The condition is self-correcting in that the reduction in pitch causes reduction in G loading and thus reduction of the aerodynamic forces , but the drop in performance can obviously be a problem if it happens too low .
ARINC Specification 664 calls for quadrax cable or fiber optic cable . Quadrax is a four conductor matched impedance ( 100 ohm ) cable . Connectors are MIL-DTL-38999 . <URL> <URL> The primary benefit is improved EMI protection and ruggedized connectors . The B787 uses fiber optic . A380 uses the quadrax cable .
The key in flying a good roll is to keep the aircraft 's nose up in anticipation of the lift requirement when flying in <URL> or <URL> flight . Since in knife-edge the elevator and rudder will assume each others function , you will need rudder as well as elevator for directional and pitch control . Also , depending on adverse yaw , some rudder is required to hold yaw to zero when applying ailerons . The procedure is as follows : Speed up , so you are fast enough for roll maneuvering and inverted flight . Pitch up a few degrees . How much depends on wing incidence and zero-lift angle of attack . Look out for some feature on the horizon : This will help you to keep your direction constant . Stop the pitching motion , then apply full ailerons . Correct the aileron-induced yawing motion by applying gentle rudder ( trailing edge in the direction of the up-going aileron ) . Your goal is to keep the fuselage pointing at the chosen feature throughout the maneuver . With increasing roll angle , apply rudder to keep the nose up . At the same time , push the stick gently to avoid course deviation . At 90 ° roll angle , both elevator and rudder have changed their function : The elevator will now control direction , and the rudder will control pitch . Keep the rotation rate and push the stick more when changing from 90 ° to 180 ° roll angle . In inverted flight you need to keep the aircraft trimmed , and depending on the static stability and speed this can require considerable negative elevator deflections . At the same time reduce rudder deflection such that the fuselage will still point into the initial direction . At 180 ° roll angle both elevator and rudder have returned to their old function , but pulling will now start a dive . On the way to 270 ° you will again need to add some rudder , now in the opposite direction , to keep the nose up . Again , elevator and rudder will exchange their functions . Once you return back to normal flight attitude , stop the rolling motion and reduce rudder deflection back to zero .
Simplicity . Yes , a servo tab is helpful , but most control surfaces should include a trim tab , so this can double as a servo tab . Total part count should still be lower than that for a stabilizer-elevator combination . But there are other advantages : Easier adjustment of stick forces and little loss of stability with free-floating controls . By hinging the stabilator ( or full-flying tail ) near the quarter point , its control forces can be kept small and tailored with the servo tab . Also , this helps to keep the hinge moment coefficient derivative over angle of attack $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ low . The ratio between it and the derivative over deflection angle $ \ eta $ determines the angle to which the control surface will float , and a small $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ means that the stability with a floating control surface will be close to the stability with a fixed surface . Also , balancing masses are easier to place when the full surface moves .
There are many reasons . At least one is that the airline may not need that airframe type until later that day ( the next flight that requires said airframe ) . Airlines do n't just fly any plane they have on any route they have , this would be terribly inefficient and involve using an airplane that is not needed for a given mission . Take any major airline for example that fly large planes to lots of destination in Europe . Lets say that they have a 777 Arrive at EWR from Paris . The next long haul flight that airline has out of EWR is that evening to Dublin . But though out the day the carrier has 2 commuter flights down to Charlottesville VA totaling about 100 passengers between the two flights . They are not going to use a 777 to move 100 people and some light bags , so the plane sits until its needed again . All planes ( even non commercial ) are built for a given " mission " much like you would not buy a Ferrari if you wanted a car that was good on gas .
For the GA fleet , there is some historical precedent operating here . Years ago , engines were much less reliable than they are today . Dragging it in generally means that you can not glide it in if you have a complete power failure . This translates to saying in the event of an engine failure , you are landing off airport with limited selection of landing sites ( your altitude is low as you are now below pattern altitude ) . So if you are flying behind an old Curtis OX-5 in your Jenny , a gliding approach to landing was recommended back in the day . Engines are much more reliable today . After an analysis of landing accidents , the FAA determined that a stabilized approach to landing is less likely to result in an accident , and they changed their guidance accordingly . Stabilized approaches are partial power-on landings . Some old timers and some old time CFIs reject the FAA 's statistical analysis and still teach/fly glide-it-in landings . Properly executed , both approaches to landing are safe . It is just that the FAA thinks that stabilized approaches are safer given engines commonly in use today . It is also true that virtually all airlines require stabilized approaches in their operating specs , and that a go around is mandatory if the approach is not stabilized . With this in mind , flight schools that aspire to send their graduates to the majors will all teach stabilized approaches .
Why are n't cell phones allowed ? / What problems to cell phones cause ? Most of these cases apparently originate from a series of <URL> in the 90s which were believe to be caused by electronic gadgets , hence the ban . This was when cell phones appeared , and there was an aggressive ban as a result . NASA has a <URL> which includes some of these and makes for an interesting read . Now however an increasing list of airlines is allowing them again , depending on jurisdiction . FAA is <URL> from a regulatory standpoint . Bear in mind that phones were probably much more powerful back when these rules were introduced . Mythbuster ( episode 6 , 2006 ) did a test on this by sticking in a powerful transmitter into a business jet . Their <URL> gives a slightly different version : It was the FCC , not the FAA , who led the way for this regulation : Explanation : Never mind what the chatterbox in the seat next to you says about cell phones messing with plane navigation -- those metallic birds are built airtight against foreign signals and operate on entirely different frequencies than cell phones . So why all the fuss about phones ? When you make a call at 10,000 feet , the signal bounces off multiple available cell towers , rather than one at a time . That means too many phone-happy jetsetters might clog up the networks on the ground , which is why the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) -- not the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) -- banned cell use on planes . How is using a cell phone in the air different than using it from the ground ? Is it sensible to allow them on aircraft ? To quote one of the above sources : although the FAA recommends that you still switch to airplane mode because you 're not going to get a signal 30,000 feet in the air -- the only hit you 'll take is a dead battery when you land . So it 's probably not a huge loss if you 're flying commercial aircraft at 10,000 meters . In any case , you ca n't expect a service like you do on the ground , unless like Lnafziger says that the aircraft is equipped with a cellular basestation called a <URL> , illustrated below :
Because it makes you sound cool and very Top Gun ! Negative Ghostrider . The pattern is full Seriously though , short words , especially at the end and beginning of transmissions are often clipped . When everything is busy , a question might only need a " yes/no " reply . Yes/no is easily lost in radio communication . Affirm/negative are not . Also , with English native speakers , yes and no are absolute . In some languages , yes and no are relative to the question . Interpret this : Do n't you have enough fuel to make the field ? Yes , we do n't . or No , we do n't . Of course , the question is not good as it contains a negative but , if a question can only have an " affirmative or negative " response , it also helps the questioner to form a good question : Can you make the field ? This can only be " affirmative ( always shortened to " affirm " to avoid confusion ) or " negative " . There is no interpretation .
Unfortunately , countries tend to want to decide themselves how stuff is supposed to work once you 're within their borders . That 's why we have different rules and laws , and when you go somewhere else in the world , you might need to know some of the differences . In England they drive on the wrong side of the road , imagine that ! :) Anyways , in order to have things run smoothly in something so utterly international as aviation , there 's this organization called <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) where I believe most countries of the world are members , where the rules are that the ICAO drafts recommendations ( I believe they are called ) which the member states should incorporate into their respective laws and regulations . If they choose not to , they need to inform the ICAO of such deviation , do n't know exactly what happens then , but I believe the idea is to at least let everybody know there 's a discrepancy . Anyway , the ICAO Annex 5 specifies units to use , including units for altitude and actually specifying meters as the primary unit , with feet being accepted as non-SI alternative . Why on earth you 'd want to go against the majority on this I do n't know , perhaps due to the fact that it 's an SI unit and they want to be as much SI as they can . So it 's basically up to each country how they want to play it . Most countries stuck with feet .
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
end question
start question
Could the Wright brothers fly across the US today ?
It 's possible , but it would be difficult under today 's regulations . Restrictions ( regulations ) : Avoid any controlled airspace that requires talking to ATC For the sake of argument I 'll pretend we have no radio on board , so no class B , C , or D airspace . ( You COULD call the controlling agency and coordinate with them , but let 's just pretend we do n't have a cell phone either . ) Avoid any airspace within a mode C veil Because presumably we do n't have a transponder on board we ca n't cross mode C veils . Avoid any restricted/special use airspace Duh . Comply with any other restrictions noted on the chart I did this in 10 minutes - I may have screwed up a little . Fuel Reserves This is the one that makes it tough . With no wind 110 miles at 40MPH ( the cruise speed ) is ~ 2.75 hours endurance - I assume that 's to empty tanks ( which is how it 's usually quoted for aircraft ) . The FAA requires at least a <URL> , which means we can fly for 2.25 hours ( 90 statute miles , 78.2 nautical miles ) before we need to land . All legs need to be under that . ( It 's possible a flight like this could get a waiver from the FAA , but let 's assume nobody applied for one . ) Restrictions ( Other ) : Refueling Where possible legs should end at airports that have fuel available . ( This is n't a hard " must " since presumably the Wright 1B can burn whatever kind of gasoline we can find once we 're on the ground ) . Airports I 'm excluding private / restricted airports from consideration as landing spots ( again , we 'll pretend our pilot has no cell phone and therefore ca n't coordinate landing access at these fields ) . Simplifying Assumptions : Simple fuel burn Not having numbers for this aircraft I 'm assuming fuel burn will average out such that the aircraft 's endurance on all legs is about 2.75 hours ( 78.2 nautical miles with no wind ) . This simplifies the planning There is no wind ( Or if there is , it 's always a tailwind . ) There 's an aviation GPS ( or something like Foreflight ) onboard Frankly I was n't going to spend an hour looking for landmarks . You could probably manage the flight by dead reckoning if you had to though . The Wright Model B can climb high enough to clear any obstacles/terrain Again , not having numbers for the aircraft ( service/absolute ceiling ) I 'm just making the assumption to simplify things . So if we put all that together can we plan this flight ? <URL> <URL> This is one possible route - there may of course be others I believe I met all the restrictions , if I screwed up I 'm sure someone will edit the flight plan ( or come up with a different route ) . A Note on Performance As I mentioned in the assumptions I did n't have performance data available for the 1B when I laid out this route . Some folks helpfully pointed out in comments that there are <URL> . These do n't appear to be " exact reproduction " replicas , but I was able to find <URL> . Given the maximum altitude in the performance figures ( 2,000 feet MSL ) it would probably not be possible to fly the route plotted above with the reproduction equipment available ( several legs are well above 2,000 feet MSL ) , and I would assume the original 1B had comparable performance .
No , punching would not cause engines to start because you 'd need to hold the starter button down ( or twist the key depending on the airplane ) until the engine catches . It 's possible that if there was bad wiring on the panel that punching it could make it work again , but that would likely be temporary . It 's just Hollywood .
Not yet . To look at a medium-range aircraft , let 's base the engine on the <URL> or the <URL> . Those engines produce between 100 and 150 kN static thrust . In cruise , their thrust is <URL> due to the low density in cruise altitude and due to them moving at Mach 0.8 . Let 's use a value of 25 kN - this is enough so that two of them will comfortably push an <URL> class airframe through the thin air at altitude . The power to produce such an amount of thrust is force times speed . The speed when flying with Mach 0.8 in <URL> is 240 m/s , so the power produced by one engine is 6.0 MW . Now <URL> an electric motor has to be to produce 6 MW continuously . As you can see from the linked Wikipedia page , the results are all over the place . Big , industrial motors come in at less than 1 kW/kg , so our motor would weigh more than 6 tons . The smaller motors for electric airplanes are pushing 10 kW/kg , the power-to-weight ratio of the <URL> , but will lose some of that when scaled up to size . Remember , even at 98 % efficiency the motor will generate 120 kW of heat - this needs to be removed , and operating in thin air does n't make this easy . With current technology the motor could achieve maybe 2 to 3 kW/kg - this means the motor driving our hypothetical engine comes in at 2 to 3 tons . Add to this the fan and the fairing of the jet engine ( we will not need the high-pressure part and all the turbines ) , but double the fan weight because we need to compensate for the missing high-energy core flow . This will maybe weigh 50 % of the CFM56 / V2500 , so we need to add another 1.2 tons . The electric motor will be twice as heavy as the parts it replaces . There is still some work to do before it can gain an advantage over current jet engines , but it has some potential because it does not dump half of the energy supplied to it overboard in a hot , fast-moving , noisy gas stream . EDIT : Since so many people get excited about me omitting the energy density aspect of electric propulsion , even though the question did expressly desire to leave this out , here are two things to consider . Energy density is only half of the problem of electric storage . The <URL> of jet fuel is around 43 MJ/kg , while Lithium polymer batteries achieve not even one MJ/kg . But this comparison is linear thinking - realistically , the current will be produced either by a high-efficiency turbine-generator combination , or by fuel cells , burning hydrogen at twice the efficiency of a conventional jet engine . Since hydrogen packs 142 MJ per kilogram , at twice the efficiency the electric airliner would need only 162 kg of hydrogen for every ton of kerosene in a conventional jet . Yes , I know , even then its volume will still be a problem . If any form of batteries is used , the fact that empty batteries weigh as much as full ones is the final nail in the coffin of battery-powered flight . While your average long-range jet <URL> , the battery-powered jet would need to schlepp those heavy batteries all the way to the final destination . To be competitive , those hypothetical batteries would need to have twice the energy density of kerosene .
The rule I was always taught is to cross any ' step ' - up or down - at an angle with the elevator full back : It minimizes the chance of a prop strike , which is much more expensive than a wingtip strike When going ' up ' , you avoid having both wheels up against the step at the same time , which usually means you need a burst of power to get over it , which could lead to sudden acceleration and sharp braking When going ' down ' you avoid the aircraft dropping down suddenly , with the same risks of strikes or an increase in speed Lifting the elevator reduces the chance of it striking There may be some differences for specific aircraft types , but I 've always followed that advice and never had a problem . I 've also never seen an aircraft get close to a wingtip strike doing this , but I suppose it could happen if the step is large enough . Although in that case you might want to just find another taxi route .
The <URL> lists the required separations . Behind a heavy aircraft , the departure hold is 3 minutes and it may not be waived . Behind a small aircraft , the hold may be waived on pilot request only : 3 . Additionally , appropriate time or distance intervals are provided to departing aircraft : ( a ) Two minutes or the appropriate 4 or 5 mile radar separation when takeoff behind a heavy/B757 jet will be : ( 1 ) From the same threshold . ( 2 ) On a crossing runway and projected flight paths will cross . ( 3 ) From the threshold of a parallel runway when staggered ahead of that of the adjacent runway by less than 500 feet and when the runways are separated by less than 2,500 feet . NOTE - Controllers may not reduce or waive these intervals . b . A 3-minute interval will be provided when a small aircraft will takeoff : 1 . From an intersection on the same runway ( same or opposite direction ) behind a departing large aircraft , 2 . In the opposite direction on the same runway behind a large aircraft takeoff or low/missed approach . NOTE - This 3-minute interval may be waived upon specific pilot request . c . A 3-minute interval will be provided for all aircraft taking off when the operations are as described in subparagraph b1 and 2 above , the preceding aircraft is a heavy/B757 jet , and the operations are on either the same runway or parallel runways separated by less than 2,500 feet . Controllers may not reduce or waive this interval . EDIT : The AIM <URL> ( intersection takeoffs ) also addresses this question , including suggested pilot phraseology for waiving the hold ( emphasis mine ) : Controllers are required to separate small aircraft ( 12,500 pounds or less , maximum certificated takeoff weight ) departing ( same or opposite direction ) from an intersection behind a large nonheavy aircraft on the same runway , by ensuring that at least a 3-minute interval exists between the time the preceding large aircraft has taken off and the succeeding small aircraft begins takeoff roll . To inform the pilot of the required 3-minute hold , the controller will state , " Hold for wake turbulence . " If after considering wake turbulence hazards , the pilot feels that a lesser time interval is appropriate , the pilot may request a waiver to the 3-minute interval . To initiate such a request , simply say " Request waiver to 3-minute interval , " or a similar statement . Controllers may then issue a takeoff clearance if other traffic permits , since the pilot has accepted the responsibility for wake turbulence separation . Wake turbulence in general is considered a key safety issue by the FAA and there is a large amount of information in the AIM , the ATC guide and elsewhere .
Many aircraft were certified to CAR standards . Those aircraft still have to meet those standard . Even a brand new aircraft off the line today , that is produced based on a type certificate data sheet that has CAR regulations has to meet those regulations .
The distribution of how pilots get to the majors is bimodal . If you can get a military pilot slot and give 4-10 years to the USAF , you can then get an FAA ATP and start interviewing at whatever majors are hiring and have your ex-mil buddies on the hiring board . Great way to get in at FedEx or UPS . This costs a few grand for your ATP but that 's about it . If you ca n't get a military slot , getting up to the point you can instruct from nothing can vary wildly in cost . The accelerated flight training programs will do this for around $ 70,000 . Next you instruct until you hit 135 mins and do either that or instructing . At this point you should n't be paying for time anymore . When you get on at a regional you 'll sit right seat for a few to many years then you 'll upgrade . After about 1.5-2 years in the left seat you 'll have the bare minimums to apply at a major .
What you describe does not match any banner tow rig I am familiar with , and I have towed banners . What it sounds like is a magnetometer , which might be on a survey aircraft . They can be on a boom ( stinger ) or sometimes towed . I have seen them on Cessna 182 , 210 and 208 aircraft , as tail mounted booms . Magnetometers are typically used for geophysical survey work . Towed magnetometers may be more sensitive and might be useful for detecting submarines , mines , etc. . The P-3 typically has a rear boom with a magnetometer or magnetic anomaly detector ( MAD ) .
The Turbo Dakota ( PA-28-201T ) is very close to what you seem to be describing and is likely much less expensive to buy outright vs. the time and materials required to modify a lowly PA-28-1xx . The published ceiling is FL200 with its TSIO-360 but at light weights * I 'm sure a determined pilot could coax it to FL230 or FL250 . So , the answer is : a big TSIO engine . The 260hp TSIO-470-B ( only TSIO-470 made to my knowledge ) would probably do the trick . A TSIO-520 has taken me to FL250 in a T210 so I know it would probably take a Cherokee at least that high assuming that you successfully attach the engine to the plane ( approvals , engineering , mechanical , W&amp;B , etc ) . * The Dakota is one of the few small single engine planes with a gross weight of more than twice its empty weight leaving plenty of wiggle room for a pilot seeking to extract better than book performance from the plane . ** Answer assumes you have an O2 system that will do the job at FL250 .
You 'll be on a flight plan . You 'll have to clear customs at a designated airport and file the appropriate paperwork . More info here : <URL> If you notify the border agency it will make recommendations if they think your flight poses a risk . There is only screening at Gatwick and Heathrow . <URL>
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
Why not ? There have been <URL> of near-sonic and even <URL> dashes by the Boeing 747 , and the damage to the <URL> elevator was done by landing gear doors which ripped off when the main gear was extended and its doors hit the elevator . There have been a few unintentional supersonic dives , and in those cases the actions taken by the crew to decelerate caused damage to the aircraft . <URL> , a Boeing 727 which rolled into a dive , and China Airlines Flight 006 overstressed the airframe , but both aircraft returned to service after repairs . IAI experience tells me it needs a dive with a nose-down angle of 18 ° to get a Boeing 747 to Mach 0.98 . Since almost all surfaces experience already supersonic flow at this speed , going the step to Mach 1.01 would need not much more , maybe 25 ° . Pulling up from such a dive by means of the stabilizer should entirely be possible without exceeding g limits .
Some sources I found claiming the event was real : A flat spin creates a low-pressure area and stalls the canopy when ejected . Producers wanted a midair crash but based this accident on a real-life incident instead . ( <URL> ) The way Goose died was actually based on a real life incident that happened to a 14 crew in the Navy . Do n't remember the specifics , just found this out recently while reading an article in one of last months flying mags ( not Flying ) ( <URL> ) I have a photo of the ' real ' Goose and it 's true that he died of seat ejections but not exactly like the movie . ( <URL> , with pictures ) There 's also an interview of Steven C. Schallhorn , who apparently was one of top gun instructors interviewed for the movie : Dr. Schallhorn said during his interview for the movie , he explained how a flat spin could actually happen with an F-14 and that it complicates ejection . " The aerodynamics of the F-14 flat spin affect the timing of the ejection sequence , " Dr. Schallhorn said . " The canopy is jettisoned , followed by the ejection of the back seat , followed by the front seat . In a flat spin , the canopy , when it ejects , bobbles for an extra few hundredths of a second above the aircraft . That upsets the carefully engineered sequence because the guy in the back could then hit the canopy . That sequence made it into the movie . " ( <URL> )
For a non-commercial flight under Part 91 rules there are no issues I 'm aware of with letting a non-rated passenger handle the controls - and it 's done quite frequently ( I ca n't think of any pilots I know offhand who have n't had someone else take the controls for one reason or another ) . The rated pilot is still pilot-in-command of the flight and ultimately responsible for everything that happens , so they need to be relatively certain their friend will let go of the controls if told to do so , and they need to maintain situational awareness ( traffic scan , airspace , etc. -- if the friend blunders into Class B airspace it 's going to land in the pilot 's lap ) and be ready to take over if the friend starts doing something that could jeopardize the safety of the flight . There are some common-sense limits here : something insane like have two non-rated friends at the controls the rated pilot being PIC from the back seat giving them instructions over the intercom would be a no-go . Similarly while this sort of thing is a total non-event in an aircraft with typical dual controls you would probably want to have a higher level of trust in your friend if you 're flying something with a throw-over yoke .
When the stall has developed the aircraft is no longer in normal control law for any axis ( see more in <URL> at OP-020 . P 14 ) : As soon as the aircraft is outside the flight envelope , the control laws transition to abnormal attitude which is the combination of : Roll direct Pitch alternate Yaw alternate . This is something between alternate and direct , and is intended to allow the crew to recover from the abnormal attitude and reenter the flight envelope without being prevented by some protections . A stall ( an excessive angle of attack ) is one of the conditions to switch to the abnormal attitude laws . You may read <URL> , while on a simulation site , it is very well written . There is also a presentation on <URL> at Eurocontrol . When the stall warning aural warning is active ( voiced " Stall " and cricket ) , the crew is expected to know they are in abnormal law . Reconfiguration in abnormal attitude law is indicated by different clues on the PFD ( e.g. $ \ alpha $ prot and $ \ alpha $ max indication removed from the speed strip , and green = replaced by amber crosses ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and the master warnings are activated . The aural alert is a single chime , ( level 2 failure confirmed in <URL> , page 25 ) . The reconfiguration is also indicated on the ECAM , but the indication can be moved towards the bottom of the list if messages with higher priority arrive . The law is reconfigured as direct when the landing gears are lowered . Regarding the aural warnings associated with stall and law reconfiguration , they are audible at the same time , or are intercalated , but none cancels the other , as it was heard for AF447 and reported in <URL> ( C-chord is the single chime ) : In sequence the alarms were sounding PULL UP , C-chord , STALL , C-chord , PULL UP , PRIORITY RIGHT .
Either one is fine , though I 'd make sure you seek a good instructor for a part 61 and follow a part 141 syllabus ( available through ASA , Jeppesen , King Schools , etc. ) when you do yours to verify you covered all the bases . At that stage of your training , future employers really wo n't care that much whether you did your training as a 61 or 141 student . They are going to be much more concerned with your professional flying record and later certification and checkrides .
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
Catalytic oxidation of carbon occurs when a catalyst , such as an alkali metal ( s ) , is present . When a catalyst is present , the temperature at which thermal oxidation occurs is lowered . Airplanes equipped with carbon brakes are susceptible to catalytic oxidation caused by exposure to alkali metal runway deicers . - <URL> Brake manufacturers produce Oxidation resistant brakes . The effects of can be obtained by using carbon brakes , or using a coating on the brake rotor and friction surfaces . <URL>
This should apply to the most advanced modern airliners . Older aircraft may not have all of the same automation available . The autopilot can take care of most tasks between takeoff and landing . The pilots have to take care of starting the airplane . This includes turning on electronics , bringing up the aircraft systems , and starting the engines . Taxiing is pretty much on the pilot , there is no automatic taxi yet on commercial airliners . Once the aircraft is lined up with the runway , the pilot can hit the TOGA ( Takeoff/Go Around ) button . The plane will automatically apply the right amount of thrust for takeoff . The pilot will then rotate the plane ( lift the nose ) at the rotation speed ( calculated before the flight ) , and the plane lifts off . Shortly after that , the pilot will engage the autopilot . If the autopilot is set up to follow GPS waypoints and proper altitudes , it will be able to take care of the climb , cruise , and descent portions of the flight . The autopilot can follow the best speeds and fly through each waypoint in the flight plan . Once the aircraft is approaching the runway , the pilot will tune the proper ILS frequency for the runway into the navigation radio . They will then engage the Approach mode , which captures the localizer ( lateral navigation left/right to align with the runway ) and glideslope ( veritical navigation up/down to have the proper approach path ) . The pilot then needs to deploy the flaps and landing gear as the plane slows down for landing . In the lowest visibility conditions , the plane is capable of the approach and touchdown on the runway all by itself . The pilot will then apply reverse thrust and brakes as needed to slow down . Now that the plane is back on the ground , it is once again the pilot 's job to exit the runway and taxi to the gate . Shutting down the engines and then the electronics will also be up to the pilot . What is the autopilot still missing ? Responding to ATC ( readback clearances , change frequencies ) Reacting to nearby traffic Following ATC instructions ( climb/descend , turn , slow/accelerate ) Reacting to emergencies or system failures Controlling lights , flaps , landing gear This is of course a high level view and there is so much more that goes into the flights . Also , keep in mind that we have the technology to do much more . It just has n't made it into service for one reason or another ( lack of development and testing , not seen as important , etc. ) . We have UAVs that are much more automated than this . However , they are still working on how to effectively avoid other aircraft .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a positioning flight and a ferry flight ?
A positioning flight is a flight for the sole purpose of positioning the aircraft to conduct another flight from another airport . This is often done when the aircraft finishes its day in one city , but is needed in a different city the following day because another plane has broken down . A positioning flight is technically a type of ferry flight , however the latter is a more broad term . Examples of ferry flights include delivery from the manufacturer , or flying to a different city for heavy maintenance . Both flights are generally conducted without fare-paying passengers on board , but sometimes extra airline staff are carried .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
An adiabatic expansion lowers temperature , an adiabatic compression raises temperature , analogous to the way a refrigerator and an air conditioner work . Or a bicycle pump , it gets quite hot while you 're pumping air . A shock wave compresses air - at supersonic speeds the object travels faster than the pressure information , and when the object arrives at a bit of air it compresses suddenly in a shock wave , with corresponding higher temperature .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
It appears that the first gyroscopic flight instrument in aviation was a gyroscopic stabilizer , with the purpose of <URL> ; it was first used ( publicly ) in 1914 . For this , the inventors , <URL> and <URL> were awarded the Collier Trophy in 1914 . Apparently <URL> by , ... linking the control surfaces with three gyroscopes , allowing flight corrections to be introduced based on the angle of deviation between the flight direction and the original gyroscopic settings . <URL> Lawrence Sperry and gyroscopic stabilizer , Image from wright-brothers . org The device ( with the gyroscopes spinning at 7000 rpm ) was <URL> on a Curtiss F aircraft in 1913 , with the first public flight in 1914 . <URL> Sperry 's second flyby in Paris in the 1914 competition , with Emil on the wing . Image from historicwings.com Elmer <URL> the turn and bank indicator and an optical drift indicator , for which he was awarded the Collier trophy again in 1916 .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
Modern civil cargo flights can be divided into three categories : containerized-load , large-load , and feeder . Containerized-load cargo ( ULDs , standard pallet loads ) This is your typical UPS or FedEx flight ; their flight crew complements are no different than a passenger aircraft flying the same route -- a captain and F/O for a short haul route such as one of the UPS A300s , and a captain , F/O , relief captain , and relief F/O ( " heavy " crew ) for a long-haul flight that needs them , although they may prefer to break such a flight up into segments , performing crew changes on the ground . ( Flight engineers are n't counted here since those aircraft are basically retired now . ) Bulk-load cargo These loads ( vehicles , large equipment , live animals , etc ) require more attention , so loadmasters are more commonly seen on these flights . However , the FAA does not consider a loadmaster " flight crew " in the sense that there are no licenses or ratings for the position ; the training and qualifications for loadmasters are completely up to their employer . Feeder aircraft Feeder aircraft are often turboprop types ( ATRs , for instance ) that are too small to use standard-sized ULDs , so they are loaded in bulk on the main deck . They use a captain and first officer pairing as well . Either way , most cargo aircraft have room for supernumeraries ( aka jump seaters ) , at least on the cockpit jumpseats if not in a forward or upper deck passenger cabin as well ; long-haul aircraft will also have crew rest bunks fitted to that forward cabin area for use by " heavy " crews .
From <URL> : Air carrier means a person who undertakes directly by lease , or other arrangement , to engage in air transportation . Commercial operator means a person who , for compensation or hire , engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property , other than as an air carrier or foreign air carrier or under the authority of Part 375 of this title . Where it is doubtful that an operation is for " compensation or hire " , the test applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person 's other business or is , in itself , a major enterprise for profit . To make this more clear <URL> says : 2-128 TYPES OF CERTIFICATES UNDER PART 119 . There are two , basic types of air operator certificates ( AOC ) issued to U.S. applicants who will conduct operations in common carriage . See Table 2-4 , Certification for a summary of certificate requirements . A . An Air Carrier Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct interstate , foreign , or overseas transportation , or to carry mail . B . An Operating Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct intrastate transportation . From your perspective it is n't a too important distinction . As a commercial pilot all that matters to you is that both air carriers and commercial operators need to have operating certificates . As a commercial pilot you can be hired by someone who has an operating certificate but you can not provide the same services on your own unless you yourself have an operating certificate ( e.g. a charter operator can hire you , but you can not operate a charter service ) . As a commercial pilot you can be paid to act as PIC and can engage in the commercial operations that are excepted from operating certificates in <URL> . You can not act as either an air carrier or a commercial operator without complying with 14 CFR 119 , which requires that you have an operating certificate .
These terms obviously stem from an Airbus flight deck . Anything selected represents pilot 's discretion . If you want to keep a certain speed , HDG or altitude , you would pull the corresponding FCU ( Flight Control Unit = Autopilot Panel ) knob . This means in Airbus philosophy : I have control . Anything managed represents a flight management calculation . If you want to fly , e.g. in the most economic way , you push the corresponding FCU knob and therewith " handover the controls to the aircraft " . The calculations for managed autopilot options are derived from e.g. gross weight entries on the INIT page or current gross weight , Angle of Attack , Air Data Computers , Cost Index , ... depending on the flight phase . So , you always prefer to follow the economically calculated way and use managed modes . Whenever ATC requests you to keep a certain speed , sink/climb rate , heading whatever , you pull the knobs and select the target values .
<URL> is how the helicopter flies in most situations . It flies similar to an airplane in this situation , with pitching up and down to increase and decrease airspeed . This is controlled by use of forward and aft cyclic . Straight flight is where the tail rotor is set so that it opposes the turning tendency of the main rotor . This essentially prevents the helicopter from yawing while in flight . This is controlled by using the anti-torque pedals . Level flight is simply when the helicopter is flying at a constant altitude . This does not mean , however that its nose is pointed ahead , or that it is flying forward , merely that it is not gaining or losing altitude . I 'm not sure exactly what cruise flight is . When a helicopter is " cruising " , it most likely is maintaining altitude and flying straight ahead , but I do n't think there is a separate term for it .
Since you are studying maintenance , I would suggest you obtain a copy of ATA iSpec 2200 , Information Standards for Aviation Maintenance ATA Standard Numbering System . Most large aircraft manufacturers and airlines use the ATA Standard Numbering System in organizing their maintenance documentation . To your specific question , the ATA spec lists the following : The FMS is the primary tool for managing the navigation . It is part of the larger Navigation system which includes the aircraft attitude , air data , and positioning sensors . The FMS supports flight planning ( path definition ) and integrated position determination . Chapter 34 NAVIGATION , section 60 Flight Management Computing . That portion of the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft 's geographical position or theoretical flight path . Includes items such as course computers , flight management computers , performance data computers , and associated control display units , warning annunciators , etc. . The FM function outputs a desired path and guidance data to the displays and AFCS . The FMS is one source of path and target ( altitude and or speed ) data for the AFCS . The other input source is by crew input via the Mode Control Panel ( MCP ) . The AFCS is functionally independent from the FMS and primary flight control system ( FCS ) , though it is sometimes physically integrated with one or the other or both . The AFCS has two major components , autopilot and auto throttle . Autopilot includes the Flight Director . Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 10 Autopilot That portion of the system that uses radio/radar signals , directional and vertical references , air data pitotstatic , computed flight path data , or manually induced inputs to the system to automatically control the flight path of the aircraft through adjustment to the pitch/roll/yaw axis or wing lift characteristics and provide visual cues for flight path guidance , i.e. : Integrated Flight Director . This includes power source devices , interlocking devices and amplifying , computing , integrating , controlling , actuating , indicating and warning devices such as computers , servos , control panels , indicators , warning lights , etc. . and Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 30 Auto Throttle That portion of the system that automatically controls the position of the throttles to properly manage engine power during all phases of flight/attitude . This includes engaging , sensing , computing , amplifying , controlling , actuating and warning devices such as amplifiers , computers , servos , limit switches , clutches , gear boxes , warning lights , etc. . The AFSC computes the necessary control inputs to fly the aircraft along the defined path and meet targets . It provides control inputs into the flight controls ( ATA Chapter 27 ) or in the case of the Flight Director , it generates a display that directs the pilot to make the needed control inputs . This steering will steer the aircraft to the path defined by the FMC , or it can steer to a simple path entered by the pilot directly into the AFCS via the MCP . In older aircraft , the autopilot steers by using a series of special actuators to manipulate the controls . In modern fly-by-wire aircraft , it provides input directly to the FCS as the FCS already has the necessary actuators . Auto Throttle provides throttle adjustments to meet speed targets from the FMC or MCP . By the ATA standard , the FMS , AFCS , and FCS are three distinct systems . As noted above , modern fly-by-wire systems are beginning to blur the boundaries . Without the need for separate actuators for the AFCS , it just becomes software much of which is getting merged with the primary FCS .
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
As you measure temperature moving at high velocities , your outside thermometer will measure a higher temp than what is actually outside ( what a non-moving thermometer would get ) . That 's because as the air rams into your thermometer it gets a little bit compressed , and that makes it heat up a little bit . Amazingly , some smart people have even calculated how much that " ram rise " is , and you can actually compensate ( well , in theory ) from the indicated temperature to calculate what the actual outside air temp is : $ $ Ram ~ Rise = SAT \ times0 .2 \ times { M } ^ 2 $ $ Where $ SAT$ is Static Air Temperature in Kelvin , $ M$ is Mach number Problem is , not all instruments will compress that air in the same way , and not all of them will pick up this Ram Rise entirely . So they will publish a $ K$ , a ram-rise-coefficient ( also called recovery factor ) meaning how much of from the theoretical Ram Rise they actually pick up . ( OAT/SAT ) Static Air Temperature = noted as $ T_S $ , actual temperature of the air outside , the same your thermometer will pick up if you were not moving ( say , in a balloon ? ) ( RAT ) Ram Air Temperature = noted as $ T_M $ , actual measured temperature by your instrument . $ $ RAT = SAT + k \ times { Ram ~ Rise } $ $ ( TAT ) Total Air Temperature = noted as $ T_T $ , total temperature as measured by an instrument with $ K$ - coefficient of $ 1 $ . $ $ TAT = SAT+R am ~ Rise $ $
The 777-31H is a standard Boeing 777-300 manufactured for Emirates ( customer code 1H ) . The 777-31H ( ER ) is a Boeing 777-300ER ( Extended Range ) again for Emirates . Compared to the standard 777-300 , the 777-300ER has : A longer range due to the extra fuel it can carry ( 145538 kg compared to 135880 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Operating Empty Weight ( 167829 kg compared to 159570 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Maximum Take-Off Weight ( 351535 kg compared to 299370 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher maximum structural payload weight ( 69853 kg compared to 64960 kg for the -300 baseline ) A wider wingspan ( 64.80 compared to 60.93 m ) A different engine delivering more thrust The Boeing 777-300ER is always equipped with General Electric GE90-115BL1 engines , while the baseline -300 can be ordered with four different engine models from General Electric , Pratt &amp; Whitney or Rolls Royce . The Emirates Boeing 777-300 aircraft have the Rolls Royce RR Trent 892 engines installed . They deliver 415 kN of thrust , almost 100 kN less than the GE90-115BL1 engines .
A PAPI and a VASI are very similar in the the information they provide . The only functional differences between the VASI and PAPI is that the VASI has the red over the white , the PAPI the white actually goes to the right of the red , and the PAPI offers higher precision ( or more glideslopes depending how you look at it a larger airliner with a high cockpit may elect to fly a slightly higher glidepath ) . The concept is the same though . A VASI looks like this : Usage : As the saying goes , Red over White , you 're alright . ( on glidepath ) Red over Red , you 're dead . ( too low ) White over White , you 're out-of-sight ( too high ) A PAPI like this : A regular VASI only offers one glide slope and is designed for an aircraft where the cockpit is n't so high up . However , there is a such thing as two-light PAPI , and a three-bar VASI . So either of them can really be tailored to fit the costs and types of aircraft flying to that airport . In the case of a four-bar PAPI it is higher precision . Since the PAPI systems uses a narrower beam of light you must fly the glide path more precisely than the VASI to stay on the beam . The PAPI , with its extra lights , forewarns you when you are drifting from the desired glide path . <URL> So one red light would indicate slightly above glide slope , two and two would indicate the normal glide slope , and three red lights would indicate slightly below the glide slope on a 4-bar PAPI . A Three bar VASI works in similar fashion except there are only two glide paths with two reds being the lower , two whites the higher .
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
end question
start question
What is the difference between planned true airspeed and actual true airspeed ?
From the manual for <URL> which seems to be similar to yours : PLANNED TRUE AIRSPEED This function is used to calculate true airspeed for preflight planning . It will compute the true airspeed in knots and Mach number and density altitude , given the pressure altitude , temperature , and calibrated airspeed in knots . and ACTUAL TRUE AIRSPEED This function calculates true airspeed , Mach number and density altitude given pressure altitude , indicated temperature in Celsius and calibrated airspeed . The manual does n't give any more information on the difference between the two calculations so we can only guess ... Both methods use pressure altitude and calibrated airspeed . One clue is that the " planned " version uses " temperature " , while the " actual " version uses " indicated temperature " . So my guess is : you use the " actual " version in flight , and it expects you to input <URL> ( TAT ) , read from the gauge in the airplane , which it then converts to Outside Air Temperature ( OAT ) to do the density altitude and true airspeed calculation . You use the " planned " version for flight planning , where the temperature you have available is the OAT . The TAT is the OAT plus the rise in temperature due to the air being brought to rest relative to the airplane . Since the TAT is a bit higher than the OAT , the " actual " version should give slightly lower density altitude and a slightly lower true airspeed .
Airspeed is critical for pilots , because it is what the airplane " feels " when it 's flying . Too little airspeed and the wings wo n't generate enough lift to fly , too much and the plane can be damaged . ( And you 're right , the pitot tube , along with the " static port " is what allows airspeed to be measured . ) Groundspeed is how quickly you 're getting where you 're going . This is also important , because the engine ( or engines ) consumes an certain amount of fuel per hour . If you are flying between two airports that are 400 miles apart in a plane that goes 100MPH , with no wind your trip will take 4 hours . If you have a 20MPH headwind your airspeed will still be 100MPH but your groundspeed will be reduced to 80MPH , and your trip will take 5 hours instead of 4 . If you 've only got 4.5 hours worth of fuel , you 're going to need to make a stop . It 's really good to know this before you leave ! So airspeed is how fast the plane is flying through the air and groundspeed is , as you observed , how fast you 're getting where you 're going . Both are important !
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
A heading ( in the general case of moving " forward " ) is the direction your nose is pointed in . This may not be your course ( <URL> ) . Headings are measured from onboard a traveling vehicle or object ( e.g. from the cockpit of an aircraft or the bridge of a ship at sea ) . An azimuth is a bearing , more precisely a compass bearing from a specific point of observation like a radar station . ( The " North " used as a reference may be either magnetic or true depending on the system you 're working with , but for purposes of this discussion it does n't matter . ) Often the point of observation is fixed ( ground radar , a control tower , an artillery spotter , etc. ) , though it need not be as long as the observation can be mapped to a compass bearing somehow . Bonus Answer : The " O'Clock " positions are an informal type of relative bearing <URL> : The 360-degree circle is broken up into 12 chunks ( 30 degrees each ) for easier scanning , with " 12 O'Clock " being directly in front of you and " 6 O'Clock " directly behind . An important caveat to be aware of is that when ATC provides a " clock bearing " for traffic it 's relative to the aircraft 's course ( 12 O'Clock is aligned with the aircraft 's track over the ground as shown on the radar ) . Depending on wind there may be considerable variation between your course ( direction of travel ) and your heading ( direction the nose is pointing ) , so the called traffic may appear in a different location when you look out your window .
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
Manufacturers typically plan their aircraft production well into the future , which includes having a buyer lined up for each aircraft , so they will know their position in the production line and have an anticipated date for delivery . An order means that the buyer has agreed to purchase a certain aircraft in the production line , at a certain price . The buyer may cancel , but there will probably be a substantial penalty for doing so . An <URL> <URL> that the manufacturer has reserved a certain aircraft in the production line for the buyer , usually at a certain price . However , the buyer will make the decision on whether to convert this to an " order " at a later date . There is less commitment than with an " order " . A <URL> is even less of a commitment than an " option . " This just means that the buyer has agreed to purchase aircraft at a certain price , but it 's not tied to a specific aircraft at that time . It is becoming more common for buyers to mix these three types of orders , which allows them to have a balance of locking in an aircraft and price with orders , and less risk and commitment with options and purchase options . These can all be canceled , though of course there will be more penalties for breaking a more firm commitment . Buyers may also <URL> , either for their own or the manufacturer 's business reasons . The detailed finances of how much is actually paid for aircraft , and how much it costs to make or break any of these contracts , is generally not disclosed . Negotiations can be very specific to each order . For a rough estimate , <URL> considers that for 6 aircraft worth 45 million per unit , options would be worth 2.3 million each to the airline , or about 5 % . <URL> estimates the down payment on a firm order at 10 to 15 percent , but notes that at least in the case of business and commuter aircraft , depending on market conditions , this may not always be required .
The climb gradient is the percentage of the rise over run ( 50 % if you are climbing at 45 degrees ) that your aircraft is climbing at while the rate of climb is the speed at which you are climbing based off the airspeed and climb gradient ( given in feet per minute ) .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
An amended clearance usually indicates something has been added to it , but the original content remains the same . Revised usually means the clearance has had modifications to the original content , including possible additions and deletions .
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
The short answer is that the privileges are what the rating confers , and there are ways to get those privileges other than having the rating . A commercial pilot licensee in most jurisdictions that follow ICAO certification guidelines may fly small planes for hire , doing service as a courier , air taxi , crop duster , etc. . These do not necessarily require flying in IMC or in Class A airspace , and so a CPL holder must also have a separate " instrument rating certification " in order to fly IFR . ATPL licensees fly in Class A as a matter of course , and that also often requires ascending and descending through the cloud ceiling which is IMC by definition . Therefore , the requirements for an ATPL in ICAO-compliant jurisdictions inherently include those required for the " instrument rating " applied separately to lower certification levels ( private/commercial ) , and the resulting license for an airline pilot confers the same " instrument privileges " that the rating would . Thus the difference in terminology ; an ATPL holder in another country has " instrument privileges " as a consequence of his basic license and so does not need a specific " instrument rating " . The same is not true for CPLs and so the law specifically requires the instrument rating as a prereq for a foreign CPL seeking an FAA ATPL .
Generally when GA pilots talk about climb performance we speak of two different airspeed values : Best Rate of Climb speed ( Vy ) gets you the most altitude per unit time ( feet per minute ) . When you want to get to cruise altitude quickly for maximum efficiency you 'll aim for the best rate of climb so you spend the least time at lower , less efficient altitudes . Best Angle of Climb speed ( Vx ) gets you the greatest altitude per unit of ground distance ( feet per mile ) . When you 've got a FAA-Standard 50-foot-tree at the departure end of the runway you 'll aim for the best angle of climb to ensure you do n't wind up in the tree . Those speeds are useful to us as pilots , but the exact rate of climb ( feet-per-minute ) for those speeds will vary : A fully loaded plane will climb more slowly than one that 's just got the pilot and a few gallons of fuel on board , and that 's where the " maximum rate of climb " enters into the discussion : Maximum rate of climb is the number of feet per minute you can get climbing at the " best rate of climb " airspeed . If someone is being sloppy in their usage " Maximum Rate of Climb " could mean " Best Rate of Climb " ( pitch for Vy and you get what you get ) , but if you 're being precise in your usage and really talking about the rate of climb it would mean <URL> in feet per minute based on the current conditions and aircraft weight . Maximum rate of climb under a given set of conditions is useful information to know if you need to clear terrain at some point on your flight path and want to be sure you can climb fast enough to do so : If you 're starting from sea level and need to clear a 5000 foot mountain that 's 5 minutes away but your plane ca n't manage more than 500 feet per minute at best-rate-of-climb speed under the current conditions you 'll need to reconsider your flight plan to either avoid the mountain or climb in a circle somewhere until you can clear it .
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
A positioning flight is a flight for the sole purpose of positioning the aircraft to conduct another flight from another airport . This is often done when the aircraft finishes its day in one city , but is needed in a different city the following day because another plane has broken down . A positioning flight is technically a type of ferry flight , however the latter is a more broad term . Examples of ferry flights include delivery from the manufacturer , or flying to a different city for heavy maintenance . Both flights are generally conducted without fare-paying passengers on board , but sometimes extra airline staff are carried .
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
Going around is a process , pulling up is an action . When ATC tells you to go around or you say you are going around it means you are initiating a set of actions to abort an approach . Pulling up is a single action , i.e. increasing the angle of attack in order to climb , and would be part of a go-around procedure . Pull up is a non-standard phrase , in most parts of the world at least , but you might hear it as ' pull up and go around ' in Canada . It also might be used in urgent situations to urge a pilot to act to avoid an obstacle or collision .
In general , even very low cost GPS units can provide very very accurate velocity vectors . Altimetry is not quite as good , and is different in that it is referenced to a geoid , rather than a barometric pressure . Similarly , airspeed is referenced to the ambient air , and while a GPS is a very accurate velocity vector source , there is no easy way to know the ambient air velocity . So in short , by necessity to maintain safe flight , airspeed utilizes relative wind on an aircraft , and there is not an easy way to determine that with GPS alone . And altimeter settings by convention , are based upon ambient air . However , by utilizing a geoid model reasonably accurate absolute altitudes or MSL altitudes could be determined . Cost ? As much as an old cellphone and some software . Pretty cheap .
Here 's an engine with old combustor cans : <URL> Here 's a single annular combustor : <URL> And in cross section : <URL> And now here 's a dual annular combustor ( DAC ) ( <URL> ) in cross section : <URL> See how it 's like one ring ( or donut ) inside another ring . <URL> " like an annular combustor , the DAC is a continuous ring without separate combustion zones around the radius . The difference is that the combustor has two combustion zones around the ring ; a pilot zone and a main zone . The pilot zone acts like that of a single annular combustor , and is the only zone operating at low power levels . At high power levels , the main zone is used as well , increasing air and mass flow through the combustor . "
I 'm not at all sure what you 're asking , but maybe I can at least point you towards more information . First , the parts you mentioned define operating rules for different flight types ( I 'm simplifying a bit here ) : <URL> : rules for all flights in the US <URL> : rules for flights by a US airline <URL> : rules for flights by a foreign airline in the US <URL> : rules for ' on demand ' ( usually charter ) flights by a US operator Any given flight will operate under one or more of those sets or rules , e.g. a US airline flight from New York to Los Angeles would follow the rules in parts 91 and 121 ; a foreign flight from London to New York would follow parts 91 and 129 ( while in US airspace ) . Individual operators and airlines also have <URL> that are approved by the FAA and that can add more rules for specific situations . And I 'm not entirely sure , but it looks like <URL> effectively applies part 121 to foreign airlines too , by requiring them to comply with the same rules as US airlines : ( c ) Each foreign air carrier shall conform to the practices , procedures , and other requirements prescribed by the Administrator for U.S. air carriers for the areas to be operated in . Without knowing what your mysterious problem was ( and I understand you ca n't share it ) , I do n't think it 's possible to say much more than that . ( By the way , " filing " is something different . Filing a flight plan is required <URL> but they apply to all aircraft , even private flights . If I want to fly a C172 under IFR then I have to file essentially the same flight plan information that an A380 pilot will file . )
end question
start question
Are fireworks a hazard to aircraft ?
In <URL> and I assume in a similar way in the United States , fireworks are treated like any other obstacle such as a communication tower , building , or crane . The location and elevation of the firework activity is assessed for impacts to any instrument procedures , airways , minimum altitude areas , etc. and NOTAM to temporarily amend affected procedures will be issued prior to the activity to advertise the changes and their effective periods . Having said that , this does n't address the VFR side of things . Operating near fireworks is essentially the same see and be seen idea . NOTAM get issued here all the time for the fireworks activity themselves and they would include a radius from the centre point . Simply avoiding the area is usually sufficient .
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
At present , all US military aircraft follow the <URL> . The first letter ( ' F ' or ' B ' ) denotes the mission of the aircraft , while the number denotes the design number . The designation system produces a Mission-Design-Series ( MDS ) designation . From <URL> : 4.1 . Designator Definition : 4.1.1 . The MDS designator is an official DoD recognized alpha-numeric symbol designation of a military defense aerospace vehicle . ... The designator describes the aerospace vehicle in two components where the components are separated by a hash.The first component , comprised only of alpha characters , describes the mission of the vehicle.The second component , comprised of both alpha-numeric characters , describes the design number and design series of the vehicle . 4.1.2 . Standard aircraft MDS designators are comprised of the following : status prefix ( optional ) , modified mission ( optional ) , basic mission ( required ) , design number ( required ) , design series ( required ) . The document also gives some examples of this implemenatation : <URL> <URL> Both tables from <URL> The 1962 system replaced the earlier system , where each service had their own systems in place for naming of aircraft . From 1924 - 1962 , the USAF ( and the <URL> before them ) used the <URL> . During the same time , the USN used the <URL> . Once the USAF was formed from the USAAF in 1947 , the US Army followed the <URL> till 1962 . Before all of these was the <URL> . More details about the aircraft designation can be found in <URL> . Basically , the counters were reset while the 1962 sytem was adopted , leading to unrelated sets of aircraft numbering . As for individual aircraft numbering , there has been a number of cases where the system was not followed , like the <URL> . Adherence to this system has been patchy at best . So , you have <URL> and <URL> after <URL> ( this was due to the counters being reset ) , while the next bomber has been named <URL> .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
Yes , absolutely . The skin transfers shear stresses between the <URL> which run lengthwise along the fuselage and transmit tensile or compressive stress . Cutouts and openings ( for doors and windows ) need special local reinforcements , so the reduced structure can still withstand the loads . Equally , the wing skin is the main element for the transmission of torsional loads . In today 's airliners , the spar is part of the skin , but the wing skin ahead and aft of it is also a part of the primary structure . Generally , stress follows stiffness . When a structure is loaded , it will deform , and those parts which withstand deformation most will carry most of the load . In the end , all parts which have similar stiffness will carry loads in proportion to their cross section . Since most of an airliner 's structure is made from aluminum , it has the same stiffness . See <URL> for one example clearly showing fuselage skin deformation .
As you say , the FAA certifies an aircraft for certain " kinds of operation " . For a normal category airplane certified under 14 CFR 23 , it basically says that it must be " established appropriate to the installed equipment " : § 23.1525 Kinds of operation . The kinds of operation authorized ( e.g. VFR , IFR , day or night ) and the meteorological conditions ( e.g. icing ) to which the operation of the airplane is limited or from which it is prohibited , must be established appropriate to the installed equipment . The installed equipment required for IFR flight ( beyond that required for VFR flight ) is listed in <URL> ( d ) and is mostly equipment used to communicate with ATC and to maintain control of the airplane when flying without visual reference to the ground ( so no navigation equipment is specified ) : § 91.205 Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates : Instrument and equipment requirements . ... ( d ) Instrument flight rules . For IFR flight , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , and , for night flight , instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( c ) of this section . ( 2 ) Two-way radio communication and navigation equipment suitable for the route to be flown . ( 3 ) Gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator , except on the following aircraft : ( i ) Airplanes with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of 360 degrees of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with the instrument requirements prescribed in § 121.305 ( j ) of this chapter ; and ( ii ) Rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of ± 80 degrees of pitch and ± 120 degrees of roll and installed in accordance with § 29.1303 ( g ) of this chapter . ( 4 ) Slip-skid indicator . ( 5 ) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for barometric pressure . ( 6 ) A clock displaying hours , minutes , and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation . ( 7 ) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity . ( 8 ) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator ( artificial horizon ) . ( 9 ) Gyroscopic direction indicator ( directional gyro or equivalent ) . As far as converting an airplane from VFR to IFR , the Type Certificate Data Sheet ( TCDS ) must specify that the airplane is designed for IFR flight , and then you could add the missing equipment to make it qualify .
<URL> has a fleet of 83 Cessna 402s , some of which are involved in its Part 121 operation .
In the US , the military is not required to obtain FAA type certificates for their aircraft ; the FAA is not the authority certifying a military-registered plane 's airworthiness . They have the option of accepting an FAA type certificate ( which they tend to do on aircraft based on civilian ones ) , but they run their own certification agencies for airworthiness , which are all that matters if the plane is in the military registration system . Here 's an <URL> on the matter , here 's a <URL> on the option to use FAA certification on commercial derivatives .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
You are asking two very different , but related , questions : How is separation provided in procedural airspace ? ( that is , airspace where no surveillance exists ) What are the emergency procedures when a surveillance system fails ? I will address them in that order . There are three main types of separation : vertical separation , horizontal separation and separation in the vicinity of the aerodrome . I am going to assume you are not asking about separation in the vicinity of an aerodrome . We can divide horizontal separation further into three parts : lateral separation , longitudinal separation and radar separation . Obviously , radar separation does not apply in procedural airspace . Common for all separation types , when used in procedural airspace , is that they are based on position reports made by the pilots . When we do not have transponders to broadcast the position and level of flights , the pilots have to manually tell us where they are . Vertical separation is pretty straight forward . It is very easy to apply , and we often prefer vertical separation ( even in radar airspace ) , simply because it is so easy . Vertical separation is obtained by requiring aircraft to operate at different levels expressed in terms of flight levels or altitudes . In most areas today , 1000 feet is the minimum vertical separation . 2000 feet is still used as minimum in some places . For more details , you should research Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) . Lateral Separation is obtained by requiring aircraft to fly on different routes or in different geographical locations , as determined by visual observations , use of navaids or RNAV equipment . The idea is , if two aircraft are flying in two different places , then they wo n't collide . One example of application of lateral separation is two aircraft flying on two different radials of the same VOR ( radio beacon ) . If the aircraft are established on radials diverging by at least 15 degrees and at least one aircraft is 15 NM or more from the VOR , they are separated - per definition , regardless of the actual distance between them . Another common example is approach procedures and different holding patterns . Certain procedures are designed in a way that ensures sufficient separation . For example , an NDB approach procedure might be separated from a nearby holding pattern . Again , we do not care about the actual distance between the aircraft - the two procedures are separated , by definition , if that is how they are designed . Longitudinal Separation is used for aircraft at the same level , flying on the same , reciprocal or crossing tracks . Longitudinal separation is based on time or distance . For example , two aircraft following the same route are separated if there is 15 minutes between them . That is , if aircraft A reports overhead point XYZ at 09:12 and aircraft B reports overhead point XYZ at 09:30 , they are separated . Now , 15 minutes is a long time , and it can be reduced in certain circumstances , but these are the kind of rules we have to follow in procedural airspace ( when vertical separation can not be used ) . There might be a hundred miles between two aircraft with 14 minutes between , but they are not separated . You can also base longitudinal separation on distance , if two aircraft are operating directly to or from the same DME ( distance measuring equipment ) . In this case , the minimum separation is 20 NM ( and can be reduced in some cases ) . In addition to the two above rules ( 15 minutes or 20 NM ) , there are many , many rules regarding crossing tracks , reciprocal tracks , separation during level changes , separation between aircraft with different speeds , and so on . Common for all of them is that the pilots will have to report their position , and then the controller has to apply separation in accordance with the rules . That sums up the separation methods and minima in procedural airspace . Now for your second question : what if radar airspace suddenly becomes procedural airspace as a result of a system failure ? Needless to say , this is extremely rare . Systems are very reliable , and there are backups , and backups of backups . That aside : The first thing to realise is that this would most likely be considered an emergency situation , which means that normal rules and regulations do not apply . Many pilots do n't realise this , but the word " mayday " is not actually reserved for pilot use only . You will likely hear a transmission from the ATC unit that sounds something like " Mayday , mayday , mayday , all stations , radar service terminated due to equipment failure , stop transmitting , standby for further instructions " . At this point , you should make sure the volume of your TCAS is turned up ... However , it is important to remember that controllers are trained to handle situations like this . Local procedures are different , but the controllers will either attempt to establish procedural separation , or transfer traffic to adjacent units , if they have radar available . Even when the system fails , the controller
The most common failure leading to depressurization I 've personally seen is a pack/air cycle machine failure . The equipment that takes pressurized bleed air from the engine , cools and expands it . I 've seen it happen two ways . 1 ) The aircraft is dispatched with one pack on MEL and the second pack fails in flight or 2 ) The aircraft is flying at high altitude , 1 pack fails , the other pack switches to high flow mode and fails soon after . Pack failure is by far the most common I 've seen . But have also seen a couple failed fuselage skins and a few burst PAX windows . Typically door leaks are enough to be noisy as heck , but not depressurize the aircraft .
As you 've guessed , there are two options : a ferry flight , or shipping the aircraft in a container . Ferry flights are quite common ; the recent <URL> in the Pacific was a ferry flight to Hawaii . As well as planning a suitable route and dealing with permits and paperwork , refueling etc. , the ferry company may install <URL> to give more range , and provide the pilot with specialized survival and communications gear . And an airline ticket home , of course :-) This might all seem expensive , but considering that a new top-of-the-range Cirrus SR22 has a <URL> of almost USD 800,000 you can imagine that ferry costs are n't necessarily a big deal in comparison . The second option is to put the aircraft in a container and ship it , and there are <URL> who specialize in this ( the page has some small photos of aircraft in containers ) . The major concern in this case is removing the wings : gliders and many experimental ( e.g. home-built ) aircraft are designed to have their wings removed for storage and transportation ( towing behind your car ) but most typical Cessnas , Beechcraft etc. are n't . You need to have the aircraft professionally and carefully prepared and then re-assembled and checked after delivery . Which option is best depends on the costs of each option and the value of the aircraft . There 's also the consideration that if you buy a 60-year old aircraft from the other side of the world , ferry companies may decline to fly it to you because of the risks of subjecting it to the stresses and weather of a very long series of flights . Or their/your insurance company may refuse cover for a ferry flight for the same reason . Or perhaps the aircraft is certified for VFR only , which would make a long ferry journey much more difficult to plan and execute . In those cases , container shipping may be the only available option .
One reason is interception ( with interceptor , not missiles ) . Defence is probably more important . Defence with fighters is still important for three reasons : There are relatively effective counter-measures against surface-to-air missiles . A fighter pilot can adjust the strategy to the counter-measures encountered , missile ca n't . In peace or limited conflict situations it is often not known whether a suspicious target is hostile at all and the only way to identify it is to have a fighter fly to it and have the pilot identify it with their eyes . Fighter can also do other things than use lethal force . In peace time you generally do n't want to shot down an intruding military aircraft of another country straight away . Fighter can chase it away from your territory or can try to arrest it ( force it to land on your own airbase ) . And fighters are also used to identify and possibly navigate to safety civil aircraft that lost radio contact . So when a potentially hostile aircraft is detected entering your territory , fighters are sent to intercept it and help it , arrest it or shot it down depending on what it turns out to be . If the fighters are slower than the intruder , they may not be able to intercept it at all ( they do n't usually know where it is flying so they ca n't wait for it ) . The faster they are , the larger area they can defend . In this case the interceptors take off without external fuel tanks ( as they wo n't be flying very far ) and with only relatively small air-to-air missiles , so they can fly fast . Conversely if you try to penetrate the enemy territory , flying faster limits the number of fighters that can intercept you . However in this case it is more useful to rely on stealth or flying low to evade detection , so attack aircraft often are either not supersonic or have lower maximum speed .
Almost always a plane going to a boneyeard is flown to the general area . Typically they are taxied , towed or dragged away from the airport itself . CHEAP is the key word in any recycling / 2nd-hand operation . Planes at the end of their economic lives , that can not be flown because of damage or lack of maintenance , tend to be moved out of sight , valuable bits and hazardous materials removed , and the hulk reduced to scrap using normal construction/demolition equipment . The scrappers near Mojave airport work the same way , in a bare dirt lot down the street from the storage adjacent to the airport . I 've been to AMARG * , at Davis-Monthan , to Mojave Airport/Spaceport and a facility for smaller , general aviation , aircraft , Cessna 150s through commuter and business turboprops/jets . The later had a large , grass , field , for last landings . Other planes arrived by truck , in pieces . Most airplane museums are near an airport , but exhibits are less likely to fly in . A plane headed for a museum or restoration shop , even as a donor , is often disassembled and sent by truck , train or ship . But restoration is n't scrapping , the economics are different . * AMARG , or the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group ( previously known as AMARC , the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center )
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
Where can the requirements for US aircraft registration be found ? The registration procedure is outlined in <URL> . See also the <URL> . 3 . The owner of an aircraft must apply to the Aircraft Registration Branch , P.O. Box 25504 , Oklahoma City , Oklahoma 73125-0504 , to obtain a certificate of registration . The applicant must submit an Aircraft Registration Application , AC Form 8050-1 , accompanied by evidence of ownership and a $ 5 registration fee . Requirements for registration of aircraft are contained in the <URL> ( For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 . ) Basically , the registrant ( whether an individual or a corporation , trustee , etc. , all of which are defined in Part 47 ) must be able to prove legal ownership of the airplane . What is the penalty for flying an aircraft without a valid registration ? The violator would be subject to any of the <URL> : administrative action ( a " Warning Notice " or " Letter of Correction " which goes on your record ) , reexamination ( " 709 ride " ) , certification action ( suspension or revocation ) , or civil/criminal penalties . The exact penalty would likely depend on the circumstances : whether the violation was intentional and the degree of the pilot 's negligence under the FARs . What should someone do if they believe an aircraft to be operating without valid registration , and how could they determine this ? The <URL> reporting FAR violations by calling the FAA 's toll-free telephone number , 1-866-TELL-FAA .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
end question
start question
How much does the landing gear compress on a fully loaded airliner on the ground ?
The value will obviously vary for different aircraft models ( and also with the loading , c.g. location etc ) , but the usual range can be found in the airport planning document for the particular airliner , where the values for ground clearance for the aircraft at the OEW ( max . value ) and MTW ( min . value ) would be given . The difference should give you the compression . For example , for Boeing 737-800 , the quoted value is around 15 cm ( plus or minus 7cm ) . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the different parts of the aircraft ' sink ' different amounts - the fuselage sinks around 15cm , while the engines ( mounted on the wings ) sink more - by 16cm due to the fuel in the wings . Another ' typical ' aircraft , the A320neo sinks by about 10cm . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the values are given here for max . ramp weight .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
There are several ways to slow down an airliner : aerodynamic drag friction in the wheel bearings reverse thrust wheel brakes and a few even used a <URL> , but that went out of fashion a long time ago . If the runway is inclined , landing <URL> also will slow down the aircraft . Friction and drag you get for free , so I would rely on those first . Since they are highest when the speed is high , use them first until the aircraft is so far down the runway that it would overshoot without additional application of wheel brakes . Use spoilers and leave the flaps down to maximise the deceleration . Only at the end add wheel brakes so you have slowed down to taxi speed when the exit of the runway is reached . So the best answer is none of the above but : Coast along with flaps and spoilers out until you need to brake more to avoid an overshoot . Then apply wheel brakes . The exact way how brakes should be applied depends on <URL> .
Most small planes ( there are exceptions ! ) have three wheels - two fixed wheels , one under each wing , and one under either the nose or the tail . When the third wheel is under the nose ( " tricycle " layout ) , that wheel is usually ( but not always ) steerable with the same pedals as the rudder , enabling accurate steering on the ground . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Joseph Burnside ) The rudder itself will also add an element of steering moment depending on the airflow over the fuselage ( taxiing speed is usually too low for this to have much effect , except that on single engine aircraft applying power will push air over the fuselage and tail , adding effectiveness to the rudder ) . In addition , for sharp turning at low speeds , differential braking can be applied - press the brake pedal for the starboard main wheel only , and the plane will tend to pivot about that wheel - ie turn right . When the third wheel is under the tail ( " tail-dragger " layout ) , the tail wheel is not usually steerable ( it usually pivots freely - but again there are exceptions ! ) . In this case the other two techniques mentioned above - rudder and differential braking - are the only methods of steering on the ground . I 've never flown a taildragger myself but I understand the taxiing technique takes some getting used to . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : RenioLinossi )
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
The requirements for Flight Data Recorders ( FDRs ) on airliners like the A320 is in 14 CFR 121 . For a good summary of the requirements for flight recorders in various types of aircraft , see the <URL> . Depending on the certification date of the aircraft ( 14 CFR 121.343 ) , the FDR must record between 6 and 17 parameters . Since engine parameters are included , this could be up to 23 different parameters on 4-engine aircraft . Newer Digital FDRs ( DFDRs ) must record at least 88 items ( 14 CFR 121.344 ) . Some of these parameters are conditional , and some require multiple parameters , so the total will probably be more than 88 parameters . The NTSB report on the <URL> notes that the FDR recorded 178 parameters during the flight . According to <URL> , tape-based DFDRs can record at 64 12-bit data words per second . Newer DFDRs using solid state recording can store up to 256 12-bit data words per second . This 256 words per second is also specified in the information on <URL> . It says it can record > 100 hours at 64 words/second , which translates to about 35 MB total . The parameters are per DO-160C standard , which you have to pay to access . Accident reports will generally include readouts from relevant parameters , to give an idea of the items that are recorded . There is a table <URL> showing some parameters , the measurement range , and recording intervals . The interval is anywhere from 0.125 seconds to 4 seconds depending on the parameter . Aircraft may also have a <URL> ( QAR ) , which records many parameters ( over 2000 ) . However , aircraft are not required to have one and the QAR is not required to survive an accident . Airlines use them for data to improve operations , and they can also be used in less severe crashes for analysis .
There are 7 modes of warning Mode 1 . Large descent rate near terrain . Gear and flap position not a factor in the warning . Mode 2 . Large closure rate with terrain . Mode 2A . Occurs for a large closure rate if the flaps are not in the landing configuration and glideslope deviation is more than 2 dots . Mode 2B . Alerts for a large closure rate if the flaps are in the landing configuration . Mode 3 . Alerts for a large altitude loss during takeoff or during a missed approach with the flaps not in the landing configuration or landing gear not down . Mode 4 . Alerts when the airplane is too close to the terrain and the landing gear or flaps are not in the landing configuration Mode 4A alert when the landing gear is not down and gives the aural messages TOO LOW GEAR at low airspeeds , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 4B alerts when the landing gear is down and the flaps are not in landing configuration and gives the aural messages TOO LOW FLAPS if the airplane is at low airspeed , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 5 alerts when the airplane goes below the glideslope during approach if the landing gear is down . Mode 6 gives aural callouts when the airplane descends through set altitudes with the landing gear down . It gives callouts like MINIMUMS or DECISION HEIGHT . Mode 7 gives windshear warnings . Every one of these modes is altitude , speed and aircraft configuration dependent . In the Enhanced GPWS , these triggers are also changed based on the position of the aircraft . Regulatory requirement <URL> Technical requirements <URL>
There is quite a lot written on the topic , especially as part of " ground effect " vehicles research . For example , <URL> cite two different types of lift coefficient . The first one ( simpler and given here ) is based on flat plate airfoils and is a modification to the well-known $ \ frac { dC_l } { d \ alpha } = 2 \ pi $ : $ $ C_L = 2 \ pi \ alpha ( 1 + \ delta ^ 2 ) ( 1-2 \ zeta ) $ $ with $ $ \ zeta = \ frac { \ sin \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ and $ $ \ delta = \ frac { \ cos \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ In the above expressions , $ h $ is the height of the wing above the surface ( ground , water , etc. ) , $ c $ is the chord and $ \ alpha $ is the angle of attack . I strongly recommend you check out " ground effect " / " Ekranoplan " literature - should be useful .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
There is indeed such a system installed at some airports . It is called an <URL> . Incidents such as <URL> have shown the potential safety issues of runway overruns , as you have pointed out . The EMAS solution uses a pad of special material at the end of the runway , designed to allow landing gear to sink into the material . The landing gear is not ripped off , but as the gear travels through the material , the plane is slowed down . Destroying the gear is not a desirable option . Although the gear on airliners is designed to safely separate from the aircraft , there is still the potential for damaging fuel tanks or other structure . The aircraft will also be even less controllable after the loss of landing gear . If a small aircraft is not going very fast , a small wall could cause it to flip over , worsening the situation . In the crash you referenced , the aircraft was traveling very fast at the end of the runway , and an EMAS may not have been sufficient to stop the plane . An EMAS typically has a max entry speed of <URL> , so in incidents like the one linked from the question , this kind of system may not completely prevent a fatal incident . Since the aircraft 's gear must break through the material , lighter aircraft may not be stopped as effectively . However , <URL> with such a system . <URL> <URL> at places where these systems could be useful , with a focus on runways that can not have the recommended 1,000 foot safety area at the end . The runway safety area ( RSA ) is the best option for a safety buffer at the end of a runway , providing extra distance for an aircraft to stop . The article above notes that the EMAS at Burbank airport took $ 4 million to install , and that is a fairly small airport that does n't usually see anything larger than a 737 . Any overrun will incur certain recovery costs , but an EMAS will need to be repaired after any overrun or accidental damage , possibly closing the runway , and will be less effective until repairs are completed . Airports must weigh all of their options for providing a safe facility .
Yes , you are correct . You need three pieces of information : airspeed true compass heading ( considering magnetic variation ) multiple absolute position fixes ( eg . from gps ) The aircraft heading has to be measured by a compass within the aircraft ( it ca n't be derived from the gps track ) , and the gps position can be used to look up the local magnetic variation . The difference between the speed/heading and the ground track ( in straight and level flight , anyway ) is attributable to winds aloft .
FCOM for the A320 describes 3 independent hydraulic systems , with accumulation reservoirs for each at 6.5 L ,12.5 L &amp; 14.5 L ( 1.7 USG ,3.3 USG &amp; 3.8 USG ) respectively , so +33.5 liters is a good bet , which translate to 26-33 kgs depending on fluid type . Note that more fluid will be available in the system , but how much exactly you will need a mechanic to answer .
Testing is performed for specific reasons . As you noted testing for certification and testing production aircraft are not the same . Testing for certification is to establish that the design of the aircraft meets airworthiness standards . A guide is available in the form of <URL> . Testing production aircraft is primarily a quality control issue and serves to prove that the aircraft is built to the drawings -- that it complies with the approved design . It 's only a small part of the process and is discussed in section 2.7 of <URL> . As noted , in the AC a flight test is required ( with one exception ) . Production testing will evolve over time as there is a constant effort to 1 . ensure adequate test coverage to avoid quality ' escapes ' and 2 . to do it as efficiently as possible to minimize costs . One other test that is typically performed is an acceptance test . This is not regulatory . It is contractual and is performed with the participation of the customer . Airlines wo n't accept delivery of an aircraft until they 're satisfied it meets everything they 're paying for . A friend of mine who worked for an airline 's engineering group said it was about a 4 or 5 day process to checkout and accept delivery of a plane .
A contrail is a cirrus cloud composed from water vapor nucleating on soot in the engine exhaust and the contrail itself does n't fall to the ground . You will occasionally see cirrus uncinus " mare 's tails " form from contrails , which are heavier ice particles in the contrail precipitating from the contrail . These particles evaporate long before reaching the ground . ( image courtesy of Wikipedia , CC licensed ) The fate of the contrail cloud itself is death via <URL> . Watch some over time as they distort from the winds aloft and then mix with the surrounding dry air and evaporate . Once the contrail is gone and only vapor remains it moves with the air it resides in . For synoptic scale flows , vertical motion of the atmosphere is on the scale of centimeters per second and as such until that vapor finds its way into subsiding air ( e.g. a high pressure system , <URL> ) , it will tend to remain aloft .
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
There is less gravitational force , but by how much ? An insignificant amount . The gravitational force of attraction between two objects is given by , $ \ displaystyle F _ { \ mathrm g } = \ frac { G m _ { 1 } m _ { 2 } } { R ^ 2 } $ , where , $ G$ is the graviational constant , $ R$ is the distance between the object 's centers , and $ m _ { 1 } $ and $ m _ { 2 } $ are the masses of the objects . Instead of finding the variation in force between the aircraft and earth , it would be be better to find the variation in the acceleration due to gravity , $ g $ ( as $ F _ { \ mathrm g } = m _ { \ mathrm a } g $ , with $ m _ { \ mathrm a } $ being the mass of the airliner ) We have , on earth 's surface , $ \ displaystyle g = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { R _ { \ mathrm e } ^ 2 } $ where , $ m _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the mass of the earth , and $ R _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the radius of the earth . For the aircraft at an altitude $ h $ above the surface of the earth , this becomes , $ \ displaystyle g _ { h } = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { \ left ( R _ { \ mathrm e } + h \ right ) ^ 2 } $ Taking ratio , we get , $ \ displaystyle \ frac { g _ { h } } { g } = \ left ( 1 + \ frac { h } { R _ { e } } \ right ) ^ { -2 } $ Plugging in numbers , we get , for an airliner cruising at 12 km , $ g _ { h } = 9.773 \ \ mathrm { m \ s ^ { -2 } } $ , or about 0.37 % less compared to the sea level value . This is quite small and would not be noticable to all but the sensitive instruments .
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
end question
start question
How does a true airspeed indicator work ?
For a basic True Airspeed Indicator ( TAS Meter ) like the one shown below , you simply dial your pressure altitude into the top window using the knob ( aligning it with the appropriate temperature mark at the bottom of that window ) , and then read your true airspeed in the other window at the bottom . <URL> Your pressure altitude can be obtained by setting your altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indication , the air temperature can be obtained from an outside air temperature ( OAT ) gauge ( or you can use one from the Winds Aloft forecast if your aircraft does not have an OAT gauge ) , and the combination of the two gives you your density altitude . The meter itself is simply a mechanical slide rule , performing the same functions as you could do manually on an E6B flight computer . The indicator above is showing a true airspeed of about 202 MPH , at a pressure altitude of 10,000 feet and a temperature of -15 degrees . For a nice video tutorial <URL> .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
The autopilot controls hydraulic actuator that is connected to the control link at some point . Since power transfer in the link is bidirectional , the control column moves when autopilot operates it . The same goes for thrust levers operated by autothrust . If the pilot fights it , the autopilot will increase the force applied up to some limit at which it will disconnect . It ca n't really recognize whether the force is from the pilot or due to aerodynamic forces , but that 's all right , because it should disconnect both if the pilot tries to yank the controls and when keeping the plane in the selected attitude requires too large control input ( e.g. hard up elevator because the plane is too slow ) . Boeing aircraft maintains this behaviour even on models with fly-by-wire ( B777 and B787 ) . Airbus did remove the feedback , because the command given does not directly correspond to control surface position anyway . So far I believe the only other civilian aircraft without feedback is Sukhoi Su-100 .
Short Answer : This will be very generic ... It depends on what type of missile it is : either IR or radar-guided . With IR missiles , the missile is caged and locked at missile boresight . The missile is commanded to the aircraft cueing system . When the target enters the missile 's FOV , the pilot uncages the seeker head , at this point you will hear a loud , " whiney " audible tone . The missile then transfers to track mode . The pilot pickles ... the missile batteries become operational , fins are unlocked , autopilot takes over , midbody connector is retracted , then ignition is commanded . With radar-guided missiles , it depends on the missile and what type of radar they have . Usually the radar is slewed to a target and locked up . When the pilot pickles , the missiles is either receiving data from the aircraft via datalink or is in active mode with the missile 's radar tracking the target . Eventually the missile 's radar will take over and track the target . The datalink can be terminated early by the pilot if the missile 's radar can take over allowing for some pretty cool tactical stuff . Long answer : There is A LOT more to it , but this is very basic . Tread very lightly with questions like this . A lot of the stuff ( especially numbers ) with regards to weaponry and modern threats are classified . And even though some of the stuff is n't classified , it 's still OPSEC and should n't really be discussed on an internet forum .
Triple-redundant systems have four independent members , so if one fails , a two-to-one vote of the remaining three is still possible . However , often the term " triple redundant " is used when the system has only three members . And if all three disagree , two of them must be faulty already , so this is a case of multiple failures . In case of Airbus , besides the three main FCS computers two backup systems are available to help isolate the faulty one . Inside , each has two channels which run software written by a different team , run on a processor different to the one in the other channel and which are supplied by two different suppliers . This helps to reduce systematic errors , when all together would fail because of a common malfunction . <URL> Airbus flight control system diagram ( picture <URL> ) . Only the first system of each is expanded ; the boxes for system 2 and 3 look the same on the inside . Input is from the side sticks , and output goes to the hydraulic valves at the control surfaces . The voting happens first in the comparator step ( between the two channels ) and again in the filters ( between the single systems ) .
There are three different schools of thought there , and one can be selected based on the capabilities and characteristics of the tailwheel aircraft you are flying . Fly the tail off the ground : After achieving full power during the start of the takeoff roll , apply forward stick pressure until the tail lifts off and the aircraft assumes a level attitude on the main gear , then hold that pitch attitude for the rest of the takeoff roll . This technique can be done in most underpowered taildraggers and is useful for short field takeoffs and landings as it minimizes parasite drag and flat plate area during the takeoff roll . It will require a healthy bootful of right rudder to counter the change in P-Factor as well as gyroscopic precession from the propeller . Let the tail fly off the ground : After applying full power with full aft stick deflection , neutralize pitch input to the stick and continue the takeoff roll . As speed builds , the tail will lift off the ground naturally . This is the recommended technique when flying high performance tailwheel planes like WWII fighters , etc. . where good rudder authority is needed to counter P-Factor changes and precession . 3-point takeoff : Apply full power and hold full aft stick as well as additional right rudder to counter for P-Factor . As speed builds in the takeoff roll , gradually ease up on stick pressure but hold just enough to keep the tailwheel on the runway . As the airplane lifts off the runway care must be taken to quickly adjust elevator pressure to hold a gradual climb and prevent rapid pitch up and stall . I once flew an MX2 with an oversized prop offering only about two inches of ground clearance resting on the mains in level attitude . We were taught to only do 3-point takeoffs and landings and specifically warned not to attempt anything else to prevent a propstrike .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
Not all commercial jets have autobrakes , and the ones that do usually have a company policy dictating when it will be used . The criteria for activating the brakes are different depending on the manufacturer and model of aircraft , but are typically some combination of : System must be armed A certain takeoff power setting must be set by the throttles A certain airspeed must be obtained Thrust levers must be pulled back to idle Aircraft must still be on the ground Usually for a rejected takeoff it does use max braking , however the autobrake usually has different settings for landing along the lines of " light/medium/max " braking . Each setting will use a different amount of runway for landing , much like lightly pressing on the brake pedal in your car versus jamming it to the floor .
As long as flight is coordinated , the vertical position of the center of gravity ( cg ) is of minor importance . It will show in issues like thrust changes , when acceleration will cause higher trim changes because of the increased lever arm between the inertial forces and the thrust forces . This will only change when flight is no longer coordinated and the aircraft sideslips . Now the big cargo volume is more important than the cg location because it will contribute a considerable side force . Also , it will need additional means of lateral stabilisation because the big fairing will destabilise the aircraft in yaw . Still , the lever arm between the cg and the lift force vector will be much , much smaller than the lever arm of the ailerons , and a little aileron deflection will be enough to stabilise the aircraft . Maneuvering will look funny to crews used to fly the unmodified version of the same airplane , because now a roll manoeuver will induce a lateral motion at the location of the cockpit which was not there before . Same goes for eigenmodes like the Dutch roll which will be more noticeable for the crew because their cockpit sways laterally . " Flipping over " needs deliberate commands from the pilot ; this is no different in aircraft with unusual vertical cg positions . The most extreme is probably the <URL> version of the Russian <URL> bomber . <URL> M-4 Molot version VM-T Atlant with Buran booster tank ( picture <URL> )
Generally speaking the Flight Management Computer supports holding patterns . The pilot inputs the holding fix ( usually a NDB/VOR ) , the direction of the hold ( Left/Right ) , the inbound course , and the time/distance that one holding leg shall take to execute . These information can be found on aeronautical charts , as IFR holding patterns are published for each airport . As far as I know pilots are also trained to fly holding patterns manually , but you can understand that flying the pattern manually is not as precise as flying the pattern via the autopilot .
Here in the US ( you did n't specify where , and this is different in other countries ) , traveling domestically in your own private aircraft is much like traveling in your own private car . Except in very specific situations , you are not generally required to go through security , and at many , many smaller general aviation airports airport security is almost non-existent , or at the very least they are not checking passengers and their luggage . If the police have a reason to suspect that something illegal is taking place ( they have reasonable cause ) then they can search the airplane , but again , much like in your car , this does n't usually happen . International flights are a very different matter though , and the airplane , crew , passengers , and luggage must all clear customs at departure and arrival airports where they will be inspected .
Nope . In a perfectly flown turn , the ball of liquid would appear to indicate level flight . You might argue that it could replace the " ball " of a turn &amp; bank indicator , but that 's about it . It would also be tough to read in turbulence . See also this YouTube video showing <URL> while flying the plane through a roll , even while inverted . Your liquid would behave similarly . <URL>
On high-altitude North Atlantic flights , planes can fly zero , one , or two miles to the right of the centerline of your assigned track . The offset is randomly selected . This is called Strategic Lateral Offset Procedures . It 's used in the oceanic flights or flights over remote land where there is typically no radar service , and ATC can not " see " traffic separation . It provides , on average , additional horizontal separation between planes reducing the likelihood of midair collision and high altitude wake turbulence ( which can occur as a result of RVSM ) . Strategic lateral offsets can be authorized in en-route oceanic or remote continental airspace . The decision to apply a strategic lateral offset is the responsibility of the flight crew , and only where offsets have been authorized by the ATS and when the aircraft is equipped with automatic offset tracking capability . <URL>
This can be calculated by knowing a few formulas , or temperature relationships related to altitude . Note that all these calculations are an estimate based on standard ISA temperature and altitude relationships . See <URL> for other examples of this type of question . Note the following from the question : FL170 represents a <URL> of 17,000 ft We know that the OAT is -10 ° C Indicated altitude is 17,500 ft Now , to solve for true altitude , we need to know a few additional items . We need to know that : <URL> at the surface is 15 ° C Standard lapse rate is -2 ° C per thousand feet To find true altitude , the difference from indicated altitude is 4 ft per 1 ° C deviation from ISA for every 1,000 ft Knowing all this , we can calculate the following : ISA at 17,000 ft ( see and above ) Deviation from ISA ( see and above ) True altitude ( see and above ) This all might sound complicated , so lets run through an example problem . Let 's assume a flight at FL190 , with an OAT of -15 ° C , on a standard pressure day . Since ISA at the surface is 15 ° C , using the standard lapse rate of -2 ° C per thousand feet , we know that ISA at 19,000 ft will be -23 ° C. Given an ISA of -23 ° C , we see that our OAT of -15 ° C shows a difference of +8 ° C above ISA . Follow that step carefully , because the signs can be confusing . Given that the temperature is ISA +8 ° C , and knowing above , we can calculate our true altitude relative to pressure altitude : $ A_T $ is our estimated true altitude , in feet $ \ Delta _ { ISA } $ is the difference above ISA , in ° C $ A_I $ is our indicated altitude , in feet $ A _ { Ik } $ is our indicated altitude , in thousands of feet $ A_T = ( 4 \ times A _ { Ik } \ times \ Delta _ { ISA } ) + A_I $ $ A_T = ( 4 \ times 19 \ times 8 ) + 19000 $ $ A_T = 608 + 19000 $ $ A_T = 19608 $ In some cases , a question might ask for true altitude based on a pressure altitude , instead of an indicated altitude . In such cases , substitute pressure altitude for indicated altitude in the above formula . Remember , this is all an exercise in estimation which is helpful in reinforcing the relationships between temperature , pressure , and altitude .
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
Windmill starts are a rather last-resort type of thing . Lots of things have to go wrong before pilots will be attempting that . First , an engine has to fail . Since airliners are required to have at least 2 engines , and be able to fly on one engine , this is n't a dire emergency . Pilots will work the associated checklists . If there is no apparent issue they may attempt to restart the engine using bleed air from the running engine . If there is an issue they will leave it shut down . With thousands of planes in the air , this sort of thing happens pretty much daily . <URL> , and generally due to <URL> . Pilots may be more aggressive in trying to get even a damaged engine started , as a damaged one is better then none at all . The APU may be started and used to help start the engines as well . <URL> which tends to be running out when gliding with no engines running . <URL> , engines are required as part of certification to demonstrate windmill starts . <URL> This establishes limits and guidelines that are put into the aircraft checklists . Pilots know that if they maintain a certain air speed , the engines should reach a certain RPM , which will allow them to be started . Of course if multiple engines have already failed , there is a chance that this issue will prevent a restart .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
The answer is in two parts . First , at higher speeds , control surfaces have more air moving over them and so they do n't have to angle as much to provide the same force necessary to move the jet as they do at slower speeds . In fact , a thin control surface like this canard will stall at lower angles of attack than a thicker profile would ( the thinner profile reduces drag which is why it 's used here ) , and a stalled surface ca n't do its job . Second , modern jets like the Rafale have fly-by-wire systems with flight limiters , to avoid the pilot overstressing the airframe at high speeds . The first video shows the Rafale in landing configuration , approaching a carrier at maybe 150kts . The second video shows high-G maneuvers at probably between 300 and 400kts . The forces at play on the canard are , in general , related to the square of the speed of the air moving past them , so if the system allowed the canards to present the same angle to a 300-knot flow as a 150-knot flow , all other things being equal the canard would be under 4 times the stress . At 450 knots that canard would be under 9 times the stress . Very quickly you would exceed the mechanical strength of that canard surface entirely , and then you would n't have a canard surface at all . So instead , the canards are moved at a shallower angle , with the difference in pitch rate , up to what the flight limiter will allow the entire aircraft to do , is made up using the elevons on the wings .
The idle speed adjustment in any engine is to control the minimum RPM that an engine reaches , in other words how quickly it will run with the throttle all the way off . You want the idle speed to be high enough that the engine will not stop running when the throttle is pulled back , but not so high that it wastes fuel . On a carbureted engine the idle speed is typically adjusted using a set screw which allows a mechanic to quickly adjust the idle speed . This would be done when the airplane is serviced as part of its regular maintenance , or out of the service cycle if there 's a reported problem . The idle speed adjustment is unrelated to the mixture control and is not adjustable in flight .
end question
start question
How close do you have to be to an underwater black box to detect it ?
This excellent explanation is taken from <URL> in 2006 : FDRs are equipped with an Underwater Locator Beacon ( ULB ) . If you look at a picture of an FDR , you will almost always see a small , cylindrical object attached to one end of the device . If a plane crashes into the water , this beacon sends out an ultrasonic pulse that can not be heard by human ears but is readily detectable by sonar and acoustical locating equipment . There is a submergence sensor on the side of the beacon that looks like a bull 's - eye . When water touches this sensor , it activates the beacon . The beacon sends out pulses at 37.5 kilohertz ( kHz ) and can transmit sound as deep as 14,000 feet ( 4,267 m ) . Once the beacon begins " pinging " , it pings once per second for 30 days . <URL> can now transmit as deep as 20,000 ft. The following table is taken from <URL> on Hydro International about the retrieval of black boxes . It shows the radius you can pick up the signal of a pinger from : Notice that if pingers were replaced with more powerful transponders , the range could be drastically improved ! The article also points out , that in very deep water : under normal conditions , the existing pinger would not be detectable from the surface in depths exceeding 2km
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
In short , the scheme is as follows : Busier airports get 3-letter identifiers . Less busy public-use airports usually get 2 numbers and a letter , sometimes 1 number and 2 letters . Less busy private airports ( which is almost all private airports ) get 2 letters and 2 numbers . More specifically , the FAA assigns airport identifiers ( and location identifiers in general ) according to the guidance laid out in section 1-2-7 of <URL> . 3 Letter Identifiers For airports , 3-letter identifiers are assigned to airports that meet the following criteria : Airports : ( a ) with a manned air traffic control facility . ( b ) with a navigational aid ( NAVAID ) within airport boundaries . ( c ) that receive scheduled route air carriers . ( d ) that receive military airlift services . ( e ) designated by the U.S. Customs Service as Airports of Entry . or Public use airports commissioning Automated Weather Observations Systems , level III ( AWOS-III ) or higher that have paved runways 5,000 feet or longer . 1 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Most one − number , two − letter identifiers have been assigned to aviation weather reporting and observation stations and special − use locations . Some of these identifiers may be assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : In this identifier series , the number is always in the first position of the three − character combination . For example , 1AD would be a valid code . 2 Number , 1 Letter Identifiers Most one − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : One − letter , two − number identifiers are keyed by the alphabetical letter . The letter may appear in the first , middle or last position in the combination of three characters . For example , 25M , 8M1 , or M72 are all valid codes . 2 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Two − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to private − use landing facilities in the United States and its jurisdictions which do not meet the requirements for three − character assignments . The format of these codes is as follows : They are keyed by the two − letter Post Office or supplemental abbreviation ( listed below ) of the state with which they are associated . The two − letter code appears in the first two , middle , or last two positions of the four − character code . For example , TN01 , 1CA3 , or 50SD would be valid codes . The order continues to list a table of supplemental codes that can be used instead of the state 's mail code . This allows for states whose mailing codes would n't work well as part of the identifier and also for states which need more than the 300 private airport registration codes possible with a given 2-letter sequence in this format . Changes to Existing Identifiers Airport identifiers are preferred to keep the same code once it 's assigned , except in exceptional circumstances . According to section 1-2-4 of the same document : Location identifiers are considered permanent and will not be changed without strong and documented justification , primarily concerning air safety or a significant change of landing facility status . As a result of this , it 's possible for an airport which now meets the qualifications for a 3-letter identifier to still have an identifier containing numbers due to it not having met the requirements for three letters when it was assigned . <URL> is an example of this . It has an AWOS-III and a paved runway longer than 5,000 feet , but still retains the code 8A3 , which was assigned before the runway was lengthened .
Do n't worry about it While snow can sometimes cause a delay , airports are really good at snow removal . ( Especially airports like Denver that are used to getting a lot of snow . ) According to <URL> DIA has 500 trained snow removal people and 270 pieces of equipment to clear 12.2 million square feet of runway , taxiways , etc. . To put that in perspective , a typical highway ( 2 lanes each way , with shoulders ) is around 38 feet wide each way , or 76 feet for both directions . If I 've done the math correctly , 12.2 million square feet is about 30 miles of road . <URL> . They use about 1500 drivers and 839 plows to handle 12,000 miles of road . To plow snow the way the Denver airport does it , they would need 200,000 drivers and 108,000 plows . Here 's <URL> that shows off some of Denver 's bigger snow removal tools . Chances are , if you can get to the airport you 'll be able to fly ( but perhaps not on time )
Generally two groups have authority to close a runway ( or airport ) for an incident/emergency , and if either says it 's closed , it 's closed : The airport owner/operator/management . It 's their facility , so if they say it 's closed , it 's closed . Specifically it 's the persons authorized to issue NOTAMs for the airport who can close a runway ( by issuing the NOTAM saying it 's closed ) , but the chain of command for making this decision may vary from airport to airport . Runways may also be closed by airport administration without issuing a NOTAM ( this happens frequently at Brookhaven airport ( KHWV ) - <URL> will be put out on the crosswind runway when the banner tow operators are set up for pick-up/release on that runway ) . Often there 's a blanket NOTAM about " banner tow ops " or similar that sort-of covers this situation ( basically " Expect strange things to be happening because the banner tow people are doing ... whatever it is they do " . ) The control tower ( if one exists ) . Whether or not they have the administrative authority to " close " a runway , they certainly have the practical authority to do so by denying anyone clearance to take off/land from it or to enter it , and by issuing NOTAMs indicating that a runway is closed/unusable for some reason . At an airport like LaGuardia where you have both an FAA Control Tower and a robust airport operations/management group ( The Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey ) a Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) or similar agreement is likely in place to ensure that everyone knows who is authorized to do what when , but in cases like this where an aircraft has a runway excursion the course of action is pretty obvious and nobody is going to want aircraft to be moving around on the ground until the situation is under control and safety can be assured .
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
The order is " Aviate , Navigate , Communicate " . As a pilot , your first responsibility is to keep the plane flying . After that it is to avoid hitting something or to avoid getting lost . After that comes communication . There are many instances of in-flight emergencies where the pilots never talked to anybody about it , because they were busy flying the plane ... According to FAA , is it required to detail/explain ( maybe file some kind of official document ) your emergency to some kind of authority ? The FAA has many procedures on reporting accidents , incidents , and emergencies . Whether or not you report it depends on what the emergency was . If its a very sick passenger , there may be no reporting required . If your control cables failed , you are required to report it . I 'll update this answer with the regulations as soon as I find them all . Quick answer is any time you declare an emergency or " PAN-PAN " , call the FSDO and let them know . Also depending on the nature of the accident/incident , you may be required to immediately notify the NTSB . See <URL> If you do have to file an explanation , what information do you have to supply ? This depends again on the nature of the emergency , and the FSDO/NTSB will ask you for the proper information when you file the report . At the very least they are probably going to want a narrative of what happened , and depending on what took place , you may want to contact your lawyer first . ( Note : You may have to contact the NTSB immediately but it does n't say you need to provide details , just that there was an incident , so the NTSB would be your first call " I had an incident " , short and sweet , and the lawyer second . ) Also what would happen if they " did n't believe " that situation was an emergency ? Its not ATC 's responsibility to determine if you are lying or not . When you as a pilot say " emergency " you have their full attention . After you get on the ground and the emergency turns out to be you forgot to call your girlfriend/wife and wanted to get ahead of other traffic , then the FAA will get involved . Until you are on the ground , an emergency is handled as priority , regardless of the reason . <URL> who abused the " emergency " system by landing on a public beach in New York because of an airsick passenger and an engine that was " running a teensy bit rough " . He did n't officially declare an emergency , and I ca n't find any record of official enforcement action against him for doing that . Note the NTSB did not investigate this " incident " .
Probably the best thing to do is to start looking for your reference as you start to lose the runway under your nose . Hopefully at that point you 'll be low enough to identify something that will stand out from the crowd all the way down to the ground . You may also favor choosing something closer in from the horizon at 2000AGL , to ensure you do n't lose it behind the horizon as you descend . For me , flying out of Addison , it 's pretty easy ; the runway faces downtown Addison about 3 miles south-southeast ( a row of corporate headquarters buildings along the Dallas North Tollway ) which is far enough out to line up on but close enough and tall enough you 'll see it right up until you pass the numbers . Flying into a more rural strip , you might have more trouble identifying a good reference that you can keep in sight as you descend . Some potential issues with this general strategy : Your reference point will lie well beyond the runway by design . Do n't fixate on it ; that will cause you to subconsciously stay higher than your intended glide path as you fly toward your reference , potentially overshooting the runway . Your reference is a single point . That point and your aircraft make a line , which you want to be colinear with the runway . But , your aircraft is a moving point , so it 's not necessarily true that you 'll be in line with the runway even if your nose is on the reference point . Instead of one reference point , I 'd pick two ( even if they 're not perfectly in line ) and focus on keeping both reference points steady relative to each other . If you ca n't see the runway , you may not be able to see surrounding visual aids like the glide slope indicators , which are just as important as staying lined up . Addison 's PAPI lights are off to the right when approaching runway 15 , which is stupid as my instructor can see them perfectly while I 'm blind unless I nose down every few seconds to keep track ( not an option without flaps ) . While I would n't rely on it completely in VMC , if you have a VOR receiver aboard and the runway has an instrument approach , you can tune into the ILS frequency and use the " cross " alongside visual references to manage your approach during the time the runway is hidden from view . The ILS system is pretty well-standardized , while the visual references at each airport are not , so if you become accustomed to an ILS-augmented visual landing , the basic procedure can be applied to any airport . The reasons I would n't rely totally on it include : You 're not instrument-rated ( unless you are ) so flying with your head in the gauges can easily kill you . Glance at it to ensure you 're where you think you are , but rely on your visual references whenever you can . You 're not flying a pure instrument approach under IFR , so you still have to " see and avoid " even if you have tower staff spacing traffic around you ( unless you ask for a " pop-up " instrument approach , effectively switching from VFR to IFR ) . ILS availability/accuracy is not guaranteed in daytime VMC because the ILS critical areas are not required to be protected during these times . If you tell the tower what you 're doing , they can advise ground traffic to use the ILS holds , but there may already be traffic in an ILS critical area and if so there 's little the tower can do . ILS may contradict visual indicators to varying degrees , because the ILS glideslope is projected from a different point along the runway than the PAPI/VASI array . You therefore should n't expect the ILS cross to be perfectly centered along the same path that gives you two white PAPI lights . Radio-based ILS is n't available at every airstrip . In such cases you simply must fly a purely visual approach , and having relied on ILS to give you the proper glide slope instead of developing your sight picture will prove to be a crutch in such situations .
<URL> ( <URL> ) That was the case on <URL> ( but not quite ) . It was luck the manual gravity-extension did n't lock the nose gear in position . That has been attributed to the shortening of the landing roll/slide . Two factors helped avert a potential disaster : the failure of the front landing gear to lock into position during the gravity drop , and the presence of a guardrail that had been installed along the centre of the decommissioned runway to facilitate its use as a racetrack . However , no commercial aircraft is certified for it , because it can do more harm than good . And depending on the aircraft type , separate controls for each landing gear in manual-extension mode may not exist . A hard landing without the nose-landing gear may rupture the fuselage , center fuel tank , or hydraulic lines . And with the added sparks from the sliding , that 's a recipe for disaster . Instead , a system such as the <URL> ( EMAS ) may help : <URL> ( <URL> ) EMAS .
Considering the difference between legal and smart , you could nonetheless potentially satisfy the training requirements with just a few hours in a helicopter . <URL> specifically notes that certain requirements must be satisfied in a helicopter : 61.109 ( c ) ( 1 ) : " 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a helicopter ; " 61.109 ( c ) ( 2 ) : " [ ... ] 3 hours of night flight training in a helicopter that includes " a 50nm flight and 10 takeoffs and landings 61.109 ( c ) ( 3 ) : " 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a helicopter in preparation for the practical test ... " 61.109 ( c ) ( 4 ) : " 10 hours of solo flight time in a helicopter ... " Theoretically , the flight training could be all combined , resulting in 3 dual and 10 solo hours in a helicopter , the rest of the requirements being fulfilled in a different category or class of aircraft . The FAA issued <URL> about these rules in 2012 . The discussion was about weight-shift-control aircraft ( 61.109 ( j ) ) , but the reasoning is applicable to other sections of 61.109 : In your letter you indicate that an examiner you spoke with stated that all of the aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.109 ( j ) , to include the 40 hours of flight time , 20 hours of flight training , and 10 hours of solo flight training must be completed in a weight-shift-control aircraft . That statement was incorrect . [ ... ] ... [ T ] he requirement for an applicant for a weight-shift-control aircraft to have 40 hours of flight time may be met by obtaining flight time in any category and class of aircraft . Paragraphs ( j ) ( 1 ) through ( j ) ( 5 ) of § 61.109 specify the flight training that must be received by an applicant to receive a weight-shift-control aircraft rating . Flight training is defined in § 61.1 as " training , other than ground training , received from an authorized instructor in flight in an aircraft . " Similar to the definition of flight time , it also does not include a limitation that the training be obtained in any particular category and class of aircraft . That said , this is somewhat academic : in order to get a solo signoff from a CFI , a student would at least require nontrivial training time in a helicopter . I 'll also cite another <URL> I came across in my research , which has perhaps the most obvious statement in an FAA legal interpretation : First , you ask whether your student is required to be proficient to the practical test standards to pass a practical exam . The answer is yes .
The estimated off block time , EOBT , which is the time at which the flight is planned to leave the gate at the departure airport , has a validity of + / -15 minutes . If the plane is not able to depart within this window , the company must send a new ATC flightplan with an updated EOBT . In some cases a calculated takeoff time , CTOT , is issued to a flight . This is the exact time the plane must begin its takeoff roll . It is given based on airspace or airport congestion along the planned route of the flight , to prevent overload in individual ATC sectors . The flight must begin its takeoff roll within -5 / +10 minutes of the CTOT . If unable to comply , a new CTOT must be requested .
In the US , an appropriate instrument rating is needed to fly when WX conditions are below VFR minimums , and at night for SVFR . <URL> Additionally , one needs an appropriate instrument rating to fly under an IFR clearance when in controlled airspace , regardless of the WX . Notes : ATP and things like a category and class in an airship are exceptions . Also an airplane instrument rating works in gliders . Etc. . Addendum : Specific to the OP 's citing a NTSB report , the following comment is added : To rely on the mentioned NTSB report , it is important to read the findings , and understand that , a. ) the pilot intended to hit VFR conditions before 700AGL and upon entering controlled airspace , b. ) the pilot told people he was taking off despite qualified observers noting 200 ft clouds , c. ) the airport where approach was based said they were below IFR , which would leave the pilot few options if he needed to land nearby . Given that , it is easy to agree with the NTSB . Just because something is legal , does n't mean it is best practice , and in this case it is likely the pilot did not do as stated . One final point , IFR without a clearance in Class G is a decision which should not be taken lightly . Years ago , I routinely did it , and the airspace was uncontrolled at safe IFR enroute altitudes . Departing a Class G airport , with less than VFR conditions , and expecting VFR before hitting controlled airspace at 700AGL is dubious . The vest majority of my IFR flights in uncontrolled airspace , that were without benefit of clearances , were where there are large areas of uncontrolled airspace , and safe IFR altitudes could be flown enroute . Furthermore , while ATC did not issue clearances for flight in uncontrolled airspace , coordination with ATC where possible , and also with local FSS were done . That is different from popping off an airport that is likely IMC , and stating that one intends to climb into VFR weather before hitting 700AGL and controlled airspace . The frosting on the cake is having the field in the area be below IFR limits for approaches . Good judgment is hard to legislate .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
From ARINC 429 , Attachment 6 : Label 025 , Selected Altitude ( BCD ) Five binary coded decimals . Range is up to 50000 . Resolution is 1 foot . Bit 29 ( MSC ) ------------------------------ Bit 11 ( LSC ) 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 1 0 0 | 0 0 0 1 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix . Label 102 , Selected Altitude ( BNR ) 16 bits of data . Range of 65536 . Resolution ( value of LSB ) is 1 foot . Bit 28 ( MSB ) ------------------- Bit 13 ( LSB ) ( Bits 12-11 are set to 0 ) 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative values are encoded as the two 's complements of positive values and the negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix .
The FAR section that you are looking for is available on the ecfr website : <URL> More specifically , it is <URL> The main regulations that apply are ( see the above link for the full text of the regulations ) : § 101.23 General operating limitations . ( a ) You must operate an amateur rocket in such a manner that it : ( 1 ) Is launched on a suborbital trajectory ; ( 2 ) When launched , must not cross into the territory of a foreign country unless an agreement is in place between the United States and the country of concern ; ( 3 ) Is unmanned ; and ( 4 ) Does not create a hazard to persons , property , or other aircraft . ( b ) The FAA may specify additional operating limitations necessary to ensure that air traffic is not adversely affected , and public safety is not jeopardized . § 101.25 Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets . When operating Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets , you must comply with the General Operating Limitations of § 101.23 . In addition , you must not operate Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets -- ( a ) At any altitude where clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage prevails ; ( b ) At any altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles ; ( c ) Into any cloud ; ( d ) Between sunset and sunrise without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( e ) Within 9.26 kilometers ( 5 nautical miles ) of any airport boundary without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( f ) In controlled airspace without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( g ) Unless you observe the greater of the following separation distances from any person or property that is not associated with the operations : ( 1 ) Not less than one-quarter the maximum expected altitude ; ( 2 ) 457 meters ( 1,500 ft. ) ; ( h ) Unless a person at least eighteen years old is present , is charged with ensuring the safety of the operation , and has final approval authority for initiating high-power rocket flight ; and ( i ) Unless reasonable precautions are provided to report and control a fire caused by rocket activities . § 101.27 ATC notification for all launches . No person may operate an unmanned rocket other than a Class 1 -- Model Rocket unless that person gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility nearest to the place of intended operation no less than 24 hours before and no more than three days before beginning the operation : ... § 101.29 Information requirements . . ...
There are a number of things to take into account : The distance between the runways ; can they be operated as independent runways ? This requires the centrelines to be more than 1035 meter apart . The traffic mix : is there constantly the same distance between landings or a large gap every now and then between a Heavy and a Medium that allows for one or two departures in between ? The runway entry and exit points . Can aircraft wait sufficiently short of the approach end to allow for a rapid departure when cleared for take-off ? Does the runway have high-speed exit taxi-ways at appropriate places for the landing traffic to vacate the runway quickly or is a slow 90 degree turn required ? In general , mixed mode operations can increase capacity significantly . For example the estimate for London Heathrow is that the traffic could increase from <URL> . But it is not a simple change . The requirements on ATC increase . For example , to monitor the parallel approaches , the update rate and accuracy of the surveillance system must meet higher standards than for single runway approaches . Also missed approach and emergency procedures need to be changed . And then there is an important noise issue ; in mixed mode operations , all four runway ends are continuously exposed to aircraft noise , while in dedicated operations the departure end of one runway and the arrival end of the other is not exposed . " Back of the envelope " estimation : For simplicity let 's assume traffic that is only Medium wake category with 3NM final approach separation at about 150 knots groundspeed . This would result in ~ 75 seconds intervals between aircraft passing the threshold for a pure landing runway , allowing for 48 landing per hour . In mixed mode , a line up and hold instruction would be given as soon as the landing aircraft is passed the numbers , so take-off will commence quickly after take-off clearance is given . The take-off clearance itself can be given as soon as the landing aircraft has vacated the runway , which should be about 60 seconds after it crossed the threshold . The take-off run itself is 30-40 seconds for B737 / A320 family aircraft . Let 's add about 20 seconds reaction and engine spool up time + margin . The next landing aircraft can cross the threshold after lift-off . The interval would be ~ 120 seconds between landing aircraft , resulting in 30 landings per hour . But this can be done on two runways at the same time , effectively increasing the throughput by about 25 % percent . The above schedule is very idealised with pure alternating take-off and landings and little margin for error . If put in practice it will probably result in too many go arounds due to late take-offs , but it gives good idea of the capacity increase that is possible .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
Assuming your question is for the US airspace . Short answer : When the activation periods can not be totally anticipated , the description of the area must reference the possibility of activation announced by NOTAM . The NOTAM notice is normally not shorter than 4 hours before the activation . While IFR flights will be prevented by ATC to enter or transit an active restricted area , non-controlled flights are under the sole responsibility of the pilot , as regard to flying within a restricted area . A VFR pilot must take <URL> for restricted areas into account when preparing the flight ( FSS ) , and should contact ATC when airborne for confirmation of the activation status . From the pilot standpoint You should not enter an inactive restricted area without contacting the controlling agency . From <URL> : Penetration of restricted areas without authorization from the using or controlling agency may be extremely hazardous to the aircraft and its occupants You are not allowed to enter an active restricted area without prior permission . From the Federal Register , <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft within a restricted area between the designated altitudes and during the time of designation , unless he has the advance permission of ( a ) The using agency described in § 73.15 ; or ( b ) The controlling agency described in § 73.17 . FAA ATC , as the controlling agency , manages restricted area transit or avoidance , based on activation status , but only for IFR flights . A pilot of a non-controlled flight ( e.g. VFR ) has the sole and complete responsibility for getting all information about the restrictions that may apply during its flight over a restricted area . The briefing with <URL> should include such research , contacting ATC prior to entering the restricted area seems the minimum . From controlling / using agencies standpoint A restricted area is part of the SUA ( Special Use Airspace areas ) , and is jointly managed by Using and Controlling agencies . <URL> , 21-2-4 , Times of use : a . The times of use indicate the period during which the using agency is authorized to schedule and use a SUA area . These times should reflect when normal operations are expected to occur . In determining the times of use , the proponent should select the minimum period needed to meet the using agency 's requirements . The goal is to capture the majority of the day-to-day activities . When the using agency has a requirement for intermittent , less frequent use of the airspace ( outside the specific published timeperiod ) , a provision to activate the airspace by NOTAM may be stated in the SUA legal description . What does that say ? If some periods of activation can not be anticipated , the phrasing " by NOTAM " must be used . NOTAM activation . Use " By NOTAM " or " Other Times by NOTAM " to indicate when a NOTAM must be issued in order to activate the area . Regarding the notice prior to activation by NOTAM : ( e ) . NOTAMs should be issued as far in advance as feasible to ensure widest dissemination of the information to airspace users . Normally , the minimum advance notice should be at least 4 hours prior to the activation time . NOTE - Under no circumstances may SUA be activated by a NOTAM unless the words " By NOTAM " or " other times by NOTAM " are stated in the area 's legal description . A 4-hour notice is the minimum usually accepted for the publication of the NOTAM prior to activation of the restricted area . I assume the exceptions would be handled on a case by case basis . An area without a NOTAM mention can not be activated outside of the published periods . Example : Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How accurate must fuel gauges be for VFR flight ?
The indicator must be calibrated to read zero when that tank is actually empty of all usable fuel ( in level flight ) . Bouncing is fine as long as they do not bounce when the tank is actually empty . See regs : <URL> <URL>
There 's no separate night rating or endorsement in the US , it 's included in the private pilot flight proficiency requirements ( <URL> ) and the specific required experience is in <URL> : ( 2 ) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part , 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes -- ( i ) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance ; and ( ii ) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport . Some very minimal instrument training is also required , which can be helpful at night : ( 3 ) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments , including straight and level flight , constant airspeed climbs and descents , turns to a heading , recovery from unusual flight attitudes , radio communications , and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight ; That all applies to private pilots ; <URL> may not fly at night . And as David <URL> , there is an exception to the night requirements under <URL> for pilots in Alaska : they can skip the night training but if they do , they ca n't fly at night .
There 's no fully authoritative source for this information , other than consulting an AME directly . <URL> is considered pretty reliable ( and it says Naproxen is allowed ) but their generic disclaimer explains why you ca n't just look up a medication in a list : Although these medications are generally allowed by the FAA for flight duties , there are variables with each individual 's situation that could render a particular medication inappropriate for flying because of case history or adverse side effects . Some medications are being used " off label " . This means that a drug is prescribed for symptoms that do not fall within the FDA 's approval guidelines for that drug . This is just one example of why the FAA might not approve a drug that is on the list . In other words , as with all medical questions you have to consult a professional to get the right answer for your personal situation .
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
Below 18,000 feet MSL , En Route Flight Advisory Service ( EFAS ) ( a.k.a. Flight Watch ) is provided on 122.0 MHz . Above this altitude , it is provided on discrete frequencies , with each one serving a specific ARTCC area ( <URL> , <URL> ) . These discrete frequencies are listed in the margin of IFR Enroute High Altitude charts : To answer your original question , the FAA plans to consolidate EFAS onto existing Flight Service Station ( FSS ) frequencies on October 1 , 2015 . Because Lockheed Martin ( the FSS contractor ) has consolidated flight service stations , the EFAS weather briefers are now co-located with Flight Service personnel ( they physically sit next to each other in the same room ) , making it possible to obtain both services on the same frequency . At the same time , the FAA will phase out legacy Remote Airport Advisory Services and more significantly , require the ICAO format for all flight plans ( international AND DOMESTIC ) , see <URL> .
do they fly in a pilot ( like mid-air refuel ) ? No , that is n't really feasible ! See answers to <URL> do they leave it to the co-pilot to take care of such situations ? Yes . In both normal and emergency situations , the co-pilot is able to fly the aircraft , navigate to a nearby airport and land the aircraft without the assistance of the senior pilot . From <URL> Here are some lines of defense : The remaining pilot must assume or maintain control Establish a safe flight profile and engage the autopilot ; use all possible automation Obtain cabin crew assistance Inform ATC If on an extended-range twin-engine operations ( ETOPS ) flight , the remaining pilot or PIC must assess whether to continue the flight , return to the departure airport or divert . The decision is based on : Weather conditions at the destination or alternate Reduction of flight time if diverting Workload involved in single-pilot operation Familiarity with the alternate Condition of the incapacitated pilot Availability of medical assistance Overall safety of the flight Arrange medical assistance upon arrival Brief a cabin crew member to assist if required Complete the approach and landing using the autopilot as much as possible A partially incapacitated pilot should not be allowed to participate in the subsequent operation of the aircraft , as judgment may be impaired After landing , seek immediate medical assistance See also <URL> The remaining pilot must first assume command and maintain control of the aircraft . Furthermore the position of essential controls and switches should be checked , and in nearly all cases , use of the autopilot should be made and an emergency be declared . Use of the autopilot and priority of air traffic service are two obvious and effective ways of maintaining a tolerable level of workload . The second step is to take care of the incapacitated flight crew member . The grounds for this are not entirely humanitarian ; if left unattended an incapacitated pilot can become a major problem and in any case is a major distraction to the remaining crew . Thus the incapacitated pilot must be moved out of the range of flight controls . In all cases , the advisability of removing a pilot ( perhaps unconscious ) from the seat must be dictated by consideration of the phase of the flight , the crew available , and the contours of the flight deck . Note : Consideration of the restraint and care of an incapacitated pilot dictates that cabin attendants are at least familiar with the operation of harness and seat controls Finally , and after the incapacitated flight crew member has been taken care of , the remaining flight crew should re-organise the cockpit work and prepare for landing . Details will depend on many variables including such considerations as the type of aircraft being flown , phase of flight , en route and terminal weather , and many others . How does commercial airlines prepare themselves for these kind of situations . I imagine that it involves the usual measures make pilots take regular medical tests . make pilots responsible for reporting own or crew illness , fatigue etc. prevent pilots eating the same meals in-flight . write procedures for pilot incapacitation in-flight . train flight crew to perform those procedures review and revise the above based on experience of relevant events . From what I 've read , non-pilot flight-crew are often given very basic training so that they understand the basics of flight . For example <URL> requires flight attendants initial training to include a pilot-incapacitation drill , an understanding of aircraft parts including rudder , ailerons etc , principles of flight , etc etc. . Do they specifically check if there are any pilots in the passenger manifest I believe the airline staff would often be aware of any airline pilots onboard ( e.g. <URL> ) but not of GA or military pilots flying as normal passengers .
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
It can happen very quickly . I do n't have exact numbers , but an acquaintance had this happen in a Cessna 172 and the entire tank was emptied in just a few minutes - the amount of time it took to do one circuit of the pattern and land . The fuel cap was not in the filler neck on departure , and was hanging from the chain , banging against the wing . The moral of that story is : never assume the fuelers put the cap back in . I 've personally flown an older Cherokee 160 that had a loose fuel tank gasket . When doing slow flight , the pressure above the wing was so strong that it would start to ooze fuel from the cap . Fuel would flow in a rather frightening amount back along the wing , and that 's with the cap still on .
There are a couple of places in the regualtions that require FAA or NTSB notification of certain events : <URL> <URL> <URL> The closest thing to what you described would be the following in 121.703 ( a ) : ( 11 ) A fuel or fuel-dumping system that affects fuel flow or causes hazardous leakage during flight ; Note that it says during flight though , so this would n't apply and they would n't be required to report it .
It did n't directly lead to the tail separating . What separated was n't just the de-ice boot , it was the whole leading edge on the left stabilizer . That caused a stall of the left horizontal stabilizer and an increase in drag on the left side . The wings of an aircraft have a tendency to pitch the aircraft down ( as they 're behind the center of gravity and provide a force upwards ) , while the stabilizer produces a force downwards to keep the plane 's pitch stable . With the loss of lift on the left stabilizer , there was less downforce ( leading to a pitch down ) , more downforce on the right than on the left ( leading to a right roll ) , and more drag on the left than the right ( leading to left yaw ) . These rather violent motions led to massive aerodynamic loads on the plane , resulting in the next failure : the left wing . When this failed , the plane violently rolled right , for reasons I 'm not quite sure of ( I get violently rolling , but am unsure why it was to the right ) . This roll stressed the plane even more , and that is when the tail ripped off the plane . The direct cause was extreme aerodynamic forces caused by the flight path , not the leading edge separation itself .
Incidental costs specific to the passenger , such as O2 for the passenger 's medical condition , may be paid by the passenger and need not be factored into the cost of the flight for flight sharing costs . In your example , the Hobbs charge for the aircraft is the flight cost . If the passenger wants a headset , or anything else that is not a flight expense , the cost need not be shared . Landing fees , navigation fees and the like are grey areas , and I would split those . But something like a tie-down or hangar fee is not a flight expense , and the passenger may pay for in full . If you read cases where the FAA has prosecuted pilots for conducting operations " for hire " or similar , they tend to be egregious . So in your example , $ 60 would be the right answer . I would suggest that you could even split the cost of the charts you might buy for the trip . As a final word , I would make certain that your passenger understands that you are just sharing expenses , not that they are " paying for a ride . "
The Meteorological Service of Canada ( MSC ) , the United States National Weather Service ( NWS ) and the National Meteorological Service of Mexico ( NMSM ) have a joint project called <URL> . I 've referred to it in the past to get some outlook on temperature and precipitation amounts more than a couple days in the future . From the NAEFS site : NAEFS combines state of the art ensemble forecasts , developed at the MSC and the NWS . When combined , the grand ensemble can provide weather forecast guidance for the 1-14 day period that is of higher quality than the currently available operational guidance based on either set of ensembles alone . It allows the generation of a set of forecast products that are seamless across the national boundaries between Canada , the United States and Mexico .
Sure you can . Just request to fly the approach using either radar vectors or initial approach fixes , if available . The tower will usually comply and grant you the approach clearance , adding " maintain VFR " i.e. . The approach should be flown under visual flight rules and you can not use a view limiting device unless you have an appropriately rated safety pilot onboard with access to dual flight controls . For non towered airports , you will need to listen for traffic in the area on the CTAF and provide position reports often for the benefit of other pilots in the pattern . Flying practice instrument approaches in VFR is quite common and many pilots do this to maintain instrument proficiency . It is also common for instrument rated pilots to file a local IFR flight plan to practice as well .
Can ? Of course they can . Does it make sense ? No , it does not . A VTOL needs thrust at least equal to its weight . That is much more than a fixed-wing aircraft ( HTOL ) needs . Airliners have lift-to-drag ratio around 18 -- 20 . That is in clean configuration ; in landing configuration it might be about half ( ~ 10 ) and we need twice as much thrust in case an engine fails , so around 1/4 weight . So a VTOL would need 4 times as much thrust as a HTOL . Likely more , because the craft would still have to be capable of reasonably controlled landing in case of engine failure . And while rotorcraft can do that by autorotation and pilot of Harrier or F-35B can simply eject , jet-powered civilian VTOL would only have the remaining engines for it . Now fortunately thrust and power are only indirectly related . To create thrust , force must be applied to the air . This force accelerates air , giving it some momentum and some kinetic energy . Thrust is ( change of ) momentum per time and momentum is mass time velocity while power is ( change of ) energy per time and energy is 1/2 mass times speed squared . So we can produce a lot of thrust with little power by accelerating a lot of air by a little . Which means large propeller : a rotor . That 's how helicopters get enough lift/thrust with reasonably small engine . Unfortunately rotors are not very practical for flying fast . One would also be rather difficult to tilt . That 's why V-22 Osprey and Augusta-Westland AW603 use a compromise that is somewhere between ; large enough to still have good efficiency in hover and small enough to be possible to tilt . What would definitely not be efficient for hover is a jet though . Jets are small and ca n't affect that much air ; what they can is accelerate it a lot . That is necessary for flying fast , but it is terribly inefficient when flying slowly . Military jets do n't care . They want so powerful engine to fly very fast anyway and they do n't care for efficiency much as decisive edge in combat is worth a lot of money . But for civilian transport the small advantage of being able to land closer to destination would not outweigh the disadvantage of being several times more expensive to operate . Flying the long distance with HTOL to a nearby airport and , if the destination is not reachable by car , hiring a helicopter just for the final part of the trip ends up being a lot cheaper .
Perhaps the most important rule for a VFR pilot is " see and avoid " -- be able to see any immediate dangers ( other aircraft , buildings , ground ) and avoid them . When flying above the clouds , you can certainly see other aircraft and avoid them ( as long as you 're maintaining required cloud clearances ) , and the same for buildings . You can not see the ground but on the presumption that your altitude is well above the ground and not significantly changing , this is not a factor . As long as you 're able to see the horizon , you 're unlikely to become disoriented to the point of not actually knowing that the aircraft is or is n't flying straight and level . ( Contrast that with flying in the clouds , where it 's easy to become spatially disoriented and not be aware that you 're starting to dive . ) Limitations are basic : it 's the PIC 's responsibility to follow the regulations . As to heading in the right direction and navigation in general , VFR flight does not mean one can not rely on radio aids to navigation . VOR and GPS certainly make navigation very possible while on top , but to get to your question of " can it be done safely ? " -- I suppose this comes down to a question of how reliable are your electronics and where are the weak spots ; is the pilot under flight following or otherwise in contact with ATC , etc. . If one were on top and were to lose the electrical system , there 's certainly an emergency to be declared . If already in contact with ATC , it 's an emergency that can likely be managed with the utmost of safety .
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
You might be surprised to learn that most refueling tankers hold a relatively small percentage of their total fuselage volume in fuel . The reason why is simple ; a plane stuffed to the gills with fuel would be so grossly overloaded it would n't make it off the runway . Tankers , therefore , can double as medium transports with little modification , as they have a sizable upper deck which is more or less empty space when serving as a tanker , but which can ferry troops , light vehicles or other materiel from Stateside bases to various theaters ( a dedicated heavy transport like the C-5 or C-17 would be used for transporting large units or for specialized troop transport like airbornes ) . Here 's the layout of the KC-135 Stratotanker : To my knowledge , all of this fuel is available both to power the plane and to refuel other aircraft , however the plane would likely draw primarily from the wing tanks for flight , as this is the " standard " configuration for the 707 the KC-135 is built on . Transport of the fuel from these tanks to the refueling systems would be accomplished with an integrated pump and pipe system that could move fuel from anywhere to anywhere . The bulk of the fuel load , as you can see , is contained in four " body tanks " totaling over 144,000 pounds of fuel . For comparison , the F-15E strike fighter can carry a maximum , with CFTs and 3 droptanks , of just 35,550 pounds . These tanks are lined with plastic bladders , which contain the fuel ( so the entire fuselage does n't have to be leak-proof which is much more difficult and expensive to ensure ) and also allows the bladder to collapse as the fuel inside it is depleted , reducing the volume of air in direct contact with the fuel , thus reducing the vapor hazard . AFAIK the wing tanks do not have these bladders , but they 're much smaller spaces overall and more easily accessed . Separating the fuel into multiple tanks has several advantages : The tanker is still serviceable with one or more of the tanks unable to carry fuel ( leak in the bladder , pump failure , etc ) . Sloshing of the fuel in the tanks has less effect on the weight distribution of the aircraft . Imagine trying to take off with a full Olympic swimming pool in your cargo hold ; any pitch up or down will cause several tons of weight to move " downslope " , unbalancing the aircraft ( probably fatally ) . Fuel can be pumped between these tanks to fine-tune or " trim " the aircraft 's weight distribution and handling characteristics , a process known as " tank trimming " which is more aerodynamically efficient than elevator trimming .
There are 2 fuel pumps on the Diamond DA20 . One is electric and is controlled by the pilot and one is mechanically driven by the engine and is constantly running while the engine is running . After take off , you switch the electric one off and the mechanical one keeps supplying the engine with fuel . <URL>
The issue is undoubtedly vapor lock . In the fuel injected Lyc 540 , the fuel injection plumbing is on the top of the engine which is the cold side of the engine when you are flying but when parked , heat rises ! The following procedure runs cooler fuel through the plumbing while flooding the engine , then the flooded start procedure is necessary . First , check your POH for the hot start procedure for your plane . If not there , try this as it is for a very similar airplane : Hot Starts on the Saratoga PA-32-300 : Intentionally flood the engine . This runs cool fuel through the plumbing and " breaks " the vapor lock . a ) Full rich b ) Wide open throttle c ) Fuel pump on , watch fuel flow gauge d ) When gauge registers flow , wait 3-5 seconds then red knob to ICO and pump off . Crank engine with red knob still at ICO and with throttle wide open at first . Gradually close throttle ( at a rate that will take you about 10 seconds to close the throttle ) and it should start up at some point . When engine catches , do several things more or less simultaneously : a ) release ignition key b ) throttle to idle to avoid over-revving c ) mixture full rich .
It 's all about making sure everybody knows what 's going on . While you are on an instrument approach and thus flying IFR , ATC is responsible for spacing you , giving instructions on heading and speed in order to fit you in with other inbound aircraft . In that situation they expect you to confirm and follow those instructions , and if you do n't it makes for a lot of headaches . If you 're on a visual approach , such as when you 've cancelled your IFR flight plan after descending below sparse clouds with the runway now in plain sight , then the tower knows not to give you spacing instructions ; they instead space IFR traffic around you , while other VFR traffic just has to maintain their separation minima from you . Knowing that you 're on a visual approach means ATC wo n't waste their breath trying to get you to adjust your airspeed , altitude or course to follow a traffic pattern ; they 'll just give those instructions to other aircraft in the pattern to maintain a steady traffic flow . ... unless you 're in Class B space . If you are flying into a Bravo airport , you can still request a visual approach , but approach control has to OK that change ( especially for airliners ) , and ATC is still required to provide separation services to you whether you 're VFR or IFR , so they can still give you instructions regarding your airspeed to make sure you fit into the IFR traffic pattern . This may , at times , require an uncomfortably fast landing for GA pilots being spaced in between commercial airliners at a busy time . Some Class Bs like Phoenix or DFW will have a runway more or less reserved for smaller aircraft so there 's less disturbance to commercial airliners with higher approach speeds , but not all airports have that luxury ; if you want to land your small single at O'Hare or Dulles , you 'll probably find yourself spaced in-between airliners and forced to very precisely time your approach so you can touch down and clear the runway in time for the plane behind you to take off . If traffic is heavy , you may not get in if you greet them with " Hello O'Hare Approach , Piper 354 Alpha ... " . As soon as the O'Hare controllers hear your GA small-prop callsign , if the pattern 's too busy they 'll deny you Bravo entry and recommend you head for a smaller airport like Chicago Exec or Gary .
end question
start question
How do seaplanes do run-up checks without brakes ?
I 'll limit my answer to single-engine seaplanes as I 've never flown a multi-engine seaplane . Typically there is no need to stay stationary in the water when doing a run-up . Just do it while taxiing to your takeoff path , or you can do it on your takeoff path . If the takeoff path is n't long enough to do the run-up and then continue along the path for the takeoff , you can turn around , taxi back along the takeoff path , and then takeoff . At typical run-up power settings , if you hold full up elevator , the airplane will simply mush along on the water since you wo n't have anywhere near enough power to get it up on the step . In other words , you wo n't be going very fast . When giving floatplane instruction , one of the first things I tried to impress on students was to not think in terms of the constraints of straight , hard-surface , defined runways , taxiways and the like . There 's no need , typically , to taxi in a straight line , make well-defined taxiing turns , and no need to takeoff in a straight line . Once away from the dock or beach , the airplane is going to weather vane unless you actively oppose that , and that weathervaning is going to have a component caused by the current , if any , of the water you 're on . In my experience , most of the time the takeoff path was either dictated directionally ( a river ) or pretty much wide open ( lake or reservoir ) . For new students in my area , reservoirs were preferred . More often than not , it was a matter of getting a short ways off the dock , do the checks other than the run-up while moving away from the shore at a 90 degree angle more or less , lift the water rudder , bring the stick all the way back , and do the run-up , all the while letting the aircraft weathervane into the wind . Then just takeoff . I never flew a twin-engined seaplane , but I see no reason why you could n't bring both engines up to the run-up rpm , do the checks on one and then the other . While checking the mags , carb heat , and props , there would be a little asymmetrical thrust , but not enough that the rudder could n't handle that .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
The reference you quote is correct as it defines the " useful life " of the battery . that is : if you use it for more than 1 hour ( that would include the cumulative test time ) it must be recharged or replaced before being returned to service . But that is n't what you are asking about . You are asking for the duration of operation . The requirement for Duration of Operation is 24 hrs . RTCA DO-204A , MOPS for 406 MHz ELTs , states 1.5 Operational Goals b. Operability ( 1 ) The technical requirements of the 406 MHz beacon radiated signal are based on the COSPAS-SARSAT system . ( a ) The 24-hour operating life requirement ( § 2.2.1 ) is based upon the maximum COSPAS-SARSAT system waiting time , the number of satellite overpasses required to optimize the beacon location solution and battery capacity limitation at low temperatures . and 2.2.1 Duration of Operation Refer to COSPAS-SARSAT document C/S T. 001 . and from C/S T. 001 4.5.1 Duration of Continuous Operation The minimum duration of continuous operation shall be at least 24 hours * at any temperature throughout the specified operating temperature range . The minimum duration of continuous operation for an ELT ( DT ) to meet the ICAO GADSS requirement at any temperature throughout the specified operating temperature range shall be 20 † hours .
Crew members each have their own approach to this but in general on the long haul routes , as a pilot you have at least 24h layover , so you can catchup on some sleep , walk outside for a bit ( depending on the local time ) and then sleep some more so you 're fit for the next flight back home . At home you have a couple of days off to recover from the trip . On the very long flights 13h + the pilots are with at least 4 so you can do a quick nap on board as well . As a passenger I cope with the jetlag by looking at the arrival time , do I arrive in the morning I will try to sleep on the plane , will I arrive in the afternoon the I will try to stay awake and go to bed early . By doing so I wake up easily next morning and do not feel jetlagged .
Short answer : Yes . But only for a moment . As you suggest , let 's focus on the 90 ° case , because many things will become simpler . Intermediate climb angles can be covered by a linear superposition of horizontal and vertical flight . Now we shoot up at 90 ° flight path angle ( engine thrust permitting ) and leave some angle of attack for the wing to create lift . Lift acts orthogonally to the local flow direction , so the lift will pull the aircraft sideways ( up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . Since there is no other force which will oppose this lift ( drag , weight and thrust all act at 90 ° to the lift , parallel to the flight path ) , the aircraft will accelerate sideways ( again , up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . The angle of attack will immediately decrease and lift creation will stop -- or the pilot forces the angle of attack to stay constant by pulling the elevator , and now the aircraft will further increase its flight path angle . That is a complicated way of saying that the pilot forces the airplane into a loop . If he wants to maintain this 90 ° flight path angle , he better avoid creating any lift .
In short , the people sitting over the nose wheel use the ICAO codes , and the people in the back use the IATA codes . The IATA is the International Airline Transport Association . The ICAO is the International Civil Aviation Organization . While you are correct , the IATA does not have more than 17500 codes , their primary concern is n't creating codes for every airport including grass strips and private airfields . It is easy to think of IATA codes as being concerned essentially with identifiers that the passengers will need . As far as ICAO is concerned , they contain a country identifier in their codes . They can even be more than 4 digits , as in the case of RU-2244 ( Ukrainka Air Base ) . The vast majority are 4 digit or 5 digit , with the first 1 or 2 as the country code . This allows ICAO to be available for every airport in the world . It is very common to refer to the IATA codes when flying locally , let 's say within the USA , and refer to the ICAO if flying internationally . I have a database structure of all airports in the world ( or at least all known ones ) . This includes any grass/water/helipad / paved runways . There are a total of : 46,465 airport/airfields including those that have been closed . Source : <URL>
During initial and upgrade training you will fly many V1 cuts . At every recurrent check ride you 'll experience V1 cuts both as pilot flying and non flying pilot . In our sim events the V1 cut would generally be a 600 RVR takeoff with 10 kt direct crosswind from the side that would fail . Not always though -- you expected the V1 cut on every takeoff .
The masks are connected to a <URL> by a lanyard . Pulling the mask pulls the lanyard , which pulls a pin from the generator and starts the reaction . They typically last betweeen about 10 and 20 minutes , more than enough time to get down to 10,000 feet where additional oxygen is not required . There is no need for a % of flight time since the crew will descend to a safe altitude then divert to the nearest suitable field . Therefore , the only requirement is to last during the ( emergency ) descent . You can not " repressurise " since the cabin altitude will be the same as the external altitude . The only thing to do is to increase the partial pressure of oxygen by descending . It 's worth mentioning that the flight crew each have their own , isolated supply from a bottle which lasts significantly longer . This is so that they can continue to fly if there are fumes in the cockpit . Cabin crew often have their own , smaller , portable bottles so that they can freely move about the cabin to assist the " self loading freight " . Many 's a morning when I would arrive to work feeling , ahem , a little " under the weather " and nip into the cockpit for a couple of minutes on 100 % oxygen . Works wonders - and do n't worry , they are topped up to full as part of the pre-flight service .
The problem is : Now I want the aircraft to go to balance state to move with constant velocity . So all the four forces should equals to zero thus the lift force should equlas the weight force . How Can I decrease the lift force ? This can be done by simultaneously reducing AoA ( which in-turn reduce CL ) by introducing little down elevator and reducing the engine power accordingly to maintain the airspeed .
ATC has many tools " in their belt " to keep traffic separated . When things back up , it can get crowded . Emergencies and weather regularly cause disruptions and ATC handles them according to the circumstances . To illustrate some possibilities , I will use Seattle as an example here . You can find the airport information <URL> . Most aircraft coming into the area will be commercial flights on IFR flight plans , and they will follow a Standard Terminal Arrival ( STAR ) into Seattle . You can find this seciton towards the bottom of the AirNav page . There are different STARs depending on the direction from which the flight is arriving . Each STAR will include published holding patterns . Listed here is the direction of arrival , the name of the STAR , and the holding fixes : East - EPHRATA - FLAAK , EPHRATA , ODESS East - GLASR - LOSTT , TEMPL , JAKSN Southeast - CHINS - SUNED , BRUKK South - OLYMPIA - BTG , OLYMPIA Southwest - HAWKZ - BTG , HAWKZ Northwest - JAWBN - JAWBN Northwest - MARNR - MARNR As you can see , there are 11 different holding fixes across the seven STARs . If you have one aircraft from each direction , they can each hold at the fix according to their STAR . The busiest STARs have multiple holding fixes that may be used . Aircraft may also be stacked on the same hold at different altitudes . You can read some FAA information about holds <URL> . Aircraft may also choose to divert . Depending on how much fuel they have and how the weather/emergency is playing out , they may not want to hold indefinitely on the GLASR arrival at LOSTT . Generally ATC will not ask for a diversion unless absolutely necessary . Among others , Portland , Vancouver , and Spokane are all fairly close to where the aircraft may be holding and could be viable alternates .
The simplest thing is to ask someone local where runups are usually done : the FBO , Ground Control or another pilot . If you ca n't find out then you can do them anywhere you like as long as it 's safe . Some airports have specific runup areas but they are n't always obvious . For example , KPDK has runup areas at both ends of taxiway A , they 're shown on the <URL> as ' bulges ' in the taxiway but they are n't labelled . You might notice them when you land and taxi but you might not . I 've circled one of the runup areas in red here : <URL> If there are no runup areas , the ' default ' location is the one you remember from training : on the taxiway just before reaching the runway , angled into the wind . If the taxiway is wide enough , you can move to the edge so that other aircraft can pass you if they 're ready before you . That 's very common and it 's what many pilots will expect you to do , even if you have to block the taxiway for a couple of minutes . This is where you have to use some judgement : if you know that you need to take your time on runups - perhaps it 's an unfamiliar aircraft , or you 've just had maintenance done and you 're double-checking everything - then you might look for another spot where you wo n't be in the way . Blocking other aircraft from reaching the runway is always a possibility , but at airports with a lot of GA traffic - and especially a lot of flight training - it 's common and just something to be expected . That does n't mean you should take forever doing your checks and of course some other pilots will always get annoyed at even minor delays , but if the only safe place to do runups is the taxiway then just do them there and the others will wait . Another option is to do runups on the ramp or before entering the <URL> so that you do n't block other aircraft anywhere . That 's especially important at airports with scheduled commercial flights because they usually have very precise departure times and getting stuck behind another aircraft for even a few minutes could be an issue . If you 're in that environment , then you should definitely check with Ground Control what they want you to do . But be careful about doing runups on the ramp because of people and vehicles moving around . Also be wary about doing runups a long way from the runway : during a long taxi you might change something ( e.g. the mixture or fuel controls ) and then forget to reset it for takeoff . The one place you should never do runups is on the runway itself . Sitting there for several minutes blocking the runway for landing traffic and unable to see final approach behind you is n't a good position to put yourself in . Finally , avoiding blowing debris into other aircraft should be simple : just look around you , and do n't position the aircraft so that your prop blast is going somewhere it should n't .
It depends , partially on what you precisely mean with " trim " . Pilots use a rather narrow definition where trimming means to zero the control forces for a specific control surface deflection and speed . This is achieved by tabs or springs in the control linkage . Engineers use it more broadly and include the ability to deflect control surfaces such that the desired attitude can be stabilized . I guess that you refer to this line of thought . Long before the lift coefficient of a stalling airplane peaks , the flow over part of the wing will start to separate . Ideally it will do so near the trailing edge of the wing root , and the separation will slowly progress forward and outward as angle of attack increases . This separation will shift the local center of pressure back , such that the aircraft will experience an increasing nose-down moment as it approaches stall . To stabilize it at higher angles of attack will , therefore , need nonlinearly increasing elevator deflections . Depending on the position of the center of gravity , the installed elevator authority might not be sufficient to trim the aircraft all the way into the fully developed stall . If you mean the first interpretation of " trim " , then yes , most aircraft will not allow you to zero stick forces into the stationary stall . The trim range should cover the speed for steepest climb , not more . However , if the center of gravity range is wide enough , you should be able to trim an aircraft with rear c.o.g. all the way into the stall . After all , with neutral stability you can ideally trim ( second interpretation ) any angle of attack with the same elevator deflection angle ( note that the nonlinearity explained above will require more negative elevator deflections as you approach stall even in a statically neutral aircraft ) . I would rule out that the control forces are too high - after all , when stalling in level flight at 1g the aircraft will fly as slowly as possible , so stick forces should be small . The effects of thrust depend on the engine installation . With a propeller , more power will add torque and increase the dynamic pressure at the tail . Now it depends whether the prop blast will hit the empennage - if it does n't , the effect of adding power will at best be be an asymmetric stall . In case you have a configuration change where the older configuration is known and the new should give the same flight characteristics , use tail volume as a sizing parameter . Horizontal tails of the same volume should give the same control power . Volume is the product of area and the lever arm between tail neutral point and the center of gravity . If the new tail has a different dihedral angle , do n't forget to add the cosine of the dihedral angle . When comparing elevators of the same size but of different flap chords , use the square root of the relative flap chord for comparison . Say the old elevator has a 20 % flap and the new one 30 % . The new one will have 22.5 % more control power for the same deflection ( $ \ sqrt \ frac { 0.3 } { 0.2 } $ ) . Depending on elevator chord , at some point more deflection will not help much ( typically 20 ° for a 25 % elevator - going higher will add little control power ) . Now several options can be employed to increase control power : Change the incidence of the stabilizer . That is <URL> to compensate the massive trim changes caused by Fowler flaps . Add leading edge devices on the stabilizer to make the elevator more effective . This adds a lot of complexity for a small gain , however . Use slotted flaps and double flaps to eke more control power and higher useful deflection angles from an existing elevator . Again , <URL> should point the way . In damping , both the dihedral angle and the lever arm have a quadratic influence while they have a linear influence on control power . This way one can adjust damping and control characteristics individually .
As with regular wings , the angle of attack and the dynamic pressure determine the lift of a frisbee . <URL> gives a short overview . If you want to dig deeper , <URL> and <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) have done more detailed work on flying discs . The following pictures were shamelessly copied from the work of <URL> . They show that the rounded edge improves airflow over the disc by delaying flow separation . <URL> Flow around a frisbee ( <URL> ) The frisbee can be seen as a wing with an <URL> . This incurs a small separation area at the rear end , but prevents much larger separation at the leading edge at medium angles of attack . Morrison found the farthest flying distances with an angle of attack of 12 ° and a starting speed of 14 m/s . Since the center of pressure is close to the leading edge , a disc would quickly topple over due to the different locations of the center of pressure and the center of gravity . By spinning , it can be stabilized : <URL> Difference between spinning and non-spinning frisbee ( <URL> ) . Inertia / <URL> prevents the spinning frisbee from pitching up .
An airship pilot has three ways of adjusting lift : Every lighter-than-air vehicle needs some ballast to adjust its weight . This could be sand , but mostly water is used . A blimp is only partially filled with helium . The envelope is held taut by filling a bag inside with air , called a <URL> . If you press a little more air in this bag , the overall density of the gasses in the envelope goes up , while the volume stays practically constant . This allows for fine adjustment . Forward and aft ballonets even allow for trimming the pitch attitude . When the airship moves , the air does provide a little dynamic lift or downforce , depending on pitch attitude and elevator deflection . This is a little tricky , because airships are not stable , and a pitch-up command will lead to altitude loss below a critical speed . The ballonets in this cutaway drawing of a Goodyear blimp are numbered 2 and 4 . On a calm day , the biggest disturbance is actually the sun . If the envelope is exposed to direct sunlight , it will heat up and the gas within will be heated as well , causing the blimp to rise . If the sun is covered by a cloud , the gas cools down and loses some lift . On partially cloudy days it is not easy to keep the same altitude ! Another threat is an unstable atmospheric temperature gradient . Glider pilots love this , because it will give them strong thermals , but the gas inside the airship will behave similarly to that bubble of warmer gas which causes thermals . When the airship rises , the gas inside cools less quickly than the surrounding air , and the airship will gain lift when it goes up . It becomes really bad on the way down : Now the gas warms up less quickly as well , and the airship loses lift as it comes down . The airship pilot needs to drop some ballast or create more dynamic lift , or his craft will slam into the ground . Long-range airships like the LZ-127 used a mixture of hydrocarbon gases as fuel . This mixture ( called <URL> ) was balanced to be just as heavy as air and filled some of the gas cells within the envelope . Consumed fuel would be displaced by air , so no lift adjustment was needed on a long trip .
First , the precise terms is not fins , but control surfaces . Fins would be fixed but the four rear surfaces can rotate around a spanwise axis . By rotating , they can be positioned at an angle to the airflow , thus deflecting it and creating an opposing force . Compare that to a <URL> . They work in the same way by creating a force normal to their plane . While this force has a vertical and horizontal component , the horizontal components of the single surfaces cancel each other when all surfaces are rotated by the same angle . Their vertical components will add up , creating a pitching moment . When the left and right surfaces are rotated by the opposite angle , their vertical force component will cancel while the horizontal component will add up , thus creating a yawing moment which swings the tail around . If it were to pitch downwards , which fins would need to move and in which direction ? All four surfaces will move trailing edge down , so the resulting force will point up and pitch the whole craft nose down .
Jessica Cox explains it herself in this video : <URL> She 's using her legs in place of hands ( I.e , using her feet to manipulate the controls , throttle etc ) and she specifically flies an Ercoupe which has no rudder pedals .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
Do they kill people on the ground ? Almost certainly a few do . People struck by falling bullets are more likely to die than people shot directly . The chances of a particular bullet falling onto a person are very small but over the decades , many many bullets have been fired by aircraft . Handgun bullets Between the years 1985 and 1992 , doctors at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles , California , treated some 118 people for random falling-bullet injuries . Thirty-eight of them died . Bullets fired into the air during celebrations return at a speed fast enough to penetrate the skin and cause internal damage to other organs in the path of the migrating bullet . The bullet 's velocity required for skin penetration is between 148 and 197 feet per second . A velocity of less than 200 feet per second , which is easily obtained by a celebratory gunfire , is capable of fracturing bone and even causing intracranial penetration [ 4 ] . Spent bullets have the capability of reaching up to 600 feet per second during their downfall , and thus they have the ability to inflict damage to multiple body cavities [ 4 ] . The larger caliber bullets ( ie , .45 - caliber ) reach a higher terminal velocity compared with the smaller caliber bullets ( ie , .30 - caliber ) , because of the proportion of their weight to their diameter [ 4 ] . From <URL> For those hit by falling bullets , the chance of the wound being fatal was far higher than a typical shooting . The hospital put deaths from regular shootings between 2 % and 6 % , while for those struck by falling bullets the death rate was close to one third . From <URL> Aircraft rounds These falling bullets were from celebratory gunfire , not fired from aircraft . Aircraft cannon fire projectiles which are often much heavier than handgun rounds . If one falls on you , the likelihood of injury or death must be higher . .22 Winchester magnum rimfire and .50 Browning MG rounds at same scale . <URL>
One way to approach this question is to look at the annual budget for an airport . I 'm going to assume that you mean a large passenger airport as opposed to one focused on serving general aviation , cargo , etc. . . Let 's use SFO ( San Francisco International ) as our example . It 's a city-owned airport , so the budget is a public document . Here 's <URL> . Page 5 ( page 7 in the PDF ) breaks down major sources of revenue . We have some that fall into the category of " direct " revenue in your question : landing fees , terminal rentals , etc. . . under the " aviation " category . Some of the terminal rental fees include space for purposes you might not consider aviation uses , like back offices for airline staff We also have $ 60-80M in " PFC Revenue . " PFC stands for <URL> ; it 's a charge that is added to the ticket price of everyone flying out of that airport . Finally , there are the non-aviation revenues . The bulk of those come in two categories : parking and concessions . Parking is self-explanatory . Concessions describes all the independent businesses that operate at the airport . Many businesses lease terminal space for retail shops ( including duty-free ) , restaurants and take-out food , lounges , currency exchange , etc. . . They all pay rent and/or a share of revenue to the airport based on the terms of their lease . SFO also books about $ 23M/year in revenue off the sale of electricity , as the airport sells electricity to its tenants ( airlines , concessions , etc. . . ) . I suspect , but am not positive , that these electricity sales are a nice moneymaker for the airport , as it can purchase hydropower from the City at extremely low cost and resell it at market ( utility company ) rates to its tenants . This is a quirk particular to San Francisco however . If you scroll through the detailed budget in the PDF , you 'll find entries for other revenue categories . Examples include advertising fees ( Clear Channel pays the airport to put up ads in the terminals and other areas ) , revenue for things like ATMs and baggage carts , leases to rental car companies , fees paid by taxicabs and airport buses for the right to access airport property , and even permit fees paid by filmmakers and photographers using the airport . Heck , the airport even charges the regional transit agency $ 3.2 M/year in rent and custodial fees for the airport train station . Browsing through the budget should give you a pretty good idea where a large US airport can make money from non-aviation services .
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
end question
start question
Is it possible to change/repair an aircraft tire while in flight ?
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
Although I used to think this was impossible , I now believe this can be done using weathervaning . At a fast enough forward speed , the airflow will naturally keep the helicopter facing in that direction . For an example of someone doing this in reality , for an almost identical time period that OP requested , see this link : <URL> According to the link , he needed to maintain 80 knots forward speed to prevent it from rotating out of control . Note whether this is possible may well depend on the weathervaning charactistics of the particular helicopter .
The most common failure leading to depressurization I 've personally seen is a pack/air cycle machine failure . The equipment that takes pressurized bleed air from the engine , cools and expands it . I 've seen it happen two ways . 1 ) The aircraft is dispatched with one pack on MEL and the second pack fails in flight or 2 ) The aircraft is flying at high altitude , 1 pack fails , the other pack switches to high flow mode and fails soon after . Pack failure is by far the most common I 've seen . But have also seen a couple failed fuselage skins and a few burst PAX windows . Typically door leaks are enough to be noisy as heck , but not depressurize the aircraft .
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
Here are a couple of examples from two studies that have a lot more detail and background information on pilot incapacitation in general . From <URL> : After a normal touchdown , the first officer became unconscious at the flight controls and the aircraft began to veer to the right of the centreline . The captain took control of the aircraft to return to the centreline and completed the landing From <URL> : A 45-year-old B-737 first officer experiencing an alcohol withdrawal seizure suddenly screamed , extended his arms up rigidly , pushed full right rudder , and slumped over the yoke during an approach . The aircraft descended to 1,000 feet above ground level in an uncoordinated turn to 25 degrees angle of bank before flight attendants could pull the first officer off the controls , allowing the captain to recover the airplane
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
The flashing lights help to make the airplane more noticeable . They have also been <URL> to <URL> . This is offered as an option or <URL> for <URL> of aircraft . In addition to helping the pilots to see ahead of them when on the ground in dark conditions , landing lights help to make planes more visible to others . The FAA requires landing lights to be on for commercial flights under 10,000 feet , and <URL> at least when near an airport or in low visibility . Flashing the lights makes them less likely to be confused for something like a star at night .
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
When ACARS communicates via INMARSAT satellite ( other options are VHF or HF to ground stations ) , the satellite can ping the receiver on the aircraft and determine the distance from the delay of the reply . The satellite is geostationary , meaning that it is a fixed point 35786 km above the earth . Based on the distance from the satellite you can calculate a circle where the aircraft must be on . This has been done for MH370 . <URL> Since the geostationary orbit is so high , a single satellite covers a large portion of the earth . Only a single satellite covered the MH370 flight .
Yes , a hot air balloon would change class , if you are adding an engine and propeller to provide thrust . With powered flight comes the need to provide some form of flight control ; at this point , you have an airship , albeit a <URL> . According to the FAA 's <URL> , and much like @voretaq7 's citation in another answer : An airship is an engine-driven , lighter-than-air aircraft , that can be steered . The FAA has a whole section on <URL> , for further reading .
It depends what you mean by " glider " . If you mean any craft that trades height for horizontal movement while flying without engines then yes . See the space shuttle . If you mean a craft designed to fly without engine power while losing as little height as possible and exploiting thermals then no . The problem is as you lose height you gain speed and when there is no significant atmosphere you have no good way of getting rid of that speed . So you inevitably hit the atmosphere extremely fast . The difficult part of coming back from space is losing speed to atmospheric drag without your craft burning up or ripping itself apart in the process . To reenter in one peice requires thick heat shields to avoid burning up and a compact shape and robust construction to avoid breaking up . To fly for a long time without engine power while losing as little height as possible requires a lightweight construction with long slender wings . These requirements are mutually exclusive . I did some quick searches to put this in perspective . Afaict a modern glider has a glide ratio of about 50 , a 747 has a glide ratio of about 15 , concorde has a glide ratio of about 9 and the space shuttle has a glide ratio of about 1 .
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
No , the airport would n't be closed , and the # 1 aircraft does n't need to go around nor be sent around . The risk of him shutting down the runway is very slight , and is probably of the same magnitude of risk that sending him around to hold until # 2 has landed &amp; the runway has been checked and reopened , would put him into a low-fuel emergency state . If they are both about the same distance ( actually , time ) away , then the emergency aircraft has priority ( assuming that he does n't decide to hold in order to troubleshoot , burn down fuel , prepare for the landing , etc ) , but essentially closing the airport from the time that the emergency has been declared until the emergency aircraft lands , is n't something I 've ever seen or heard of . The runway is often closed following an emergency landing until it can be checked by an airport vehicle , to ensure that it is clear of debris , spilled fuel/oil/hydraulic fluid/etc . And if the emergency aircraft ca n't clear the runway under its own power , it takes time to get it towed off , possibly pinning the landing gear ( to prevent unintended retraction ) first . Plus there may be an evacuation after the landing . So closing the runway for some time after the emergency aircraft lands , is entirely possible . But if the airport has planes in the pattern &amp; the emergency aircraft is 50 miles out , it 'd be better to let those who want/need to land , do so , rather than risk them running low on fuel airborne while awaiting the runway 's reopening . Same basic logic applies in the # 1 / # 2 scenario posed above . If aircraft regularly had their gear collapse &amp; shut down runways unexpectedly , that would be a different story . But that 's exceedingly rare , so that is n't the contingency that all planning is based on .
Yes take-off without flaps is possible . The Airbus A300 and Boeing 767 are approved for such take-offs and it is being done regularly . It results in a better climb gradient , especially with one engine out . The one engine out climb gradient is an important and sometimes limiting factor in take-off calculations . One important constraint is the length of the runway . Another limitation , perhaps less obvious , is the maximum rolling speed of the wheels . The tires are rated to a limited speed which may be exceeded by a flap-less take-off .
Yes , I have personally worked on multiple aircraft that were infested by animals . All of these aircraft were small planes , single engine Cessnas for example . A typical example would be one or two small mouse nests in the wings . I also found at least one wasp nest in an aircraft wing . The worst I ever saw was a Mooney that had extensive mouse nests throughout the airframe . That aircraft had been unairworthy for at least a year by the time I saw it . That Mooney ended up being parted out and scrapped , largely because of extensive corrosion in the wings which was either caused by , or aggravated by , the mouse nests . Urea can induce corrosion in aluminum , and finding a mouse nest or other evidence of rodent activity should prompt closer inspection . All the other instances of mouse nests that I have found in airframes were in aircraft that flew several hundred hours a year and these did not suffer any major damage . I have also heard stories from many pilots and mechanics of finding birds nests -- for example in engine intakes or the empennage -- and of rodents chewing into or through electrical wiring . There is also the classic warning to check the pitot tube in case a mud wasp has clogged the intake with a nest . I have never witnessed any of these occurrences myself . The mud dauber wasp is notorious and is suspected of being a contributing factor in at least one fatal airline accident that I am familiar with : <URL> . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA Many means of prevention are available , including typical pest prevention methods such as traps and poisons -- in my experience all reserved for use in the storage hanger . The most aviation specific forms are the various covers used to protect <URL> , <URL> , etc. . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA As far as the possibility of animals surviving , I suppose the odds are low . I have never encountered a live animal in an airplane ( pets excepted ) . For any animal stowing away on a pressurized aircraft operating at high altitude I should think the low oxygen partial pressure and temperature would both discourage survival outside the pressure vessel . Some flights , particularly international ones , apparently make a practice of spraying some form of pesticide in the cabin to kill mosquitoes and other unwanted creatures .
If the aircraft has not established a <URL> , a go around is required . According to EUROCONTROL 's Skybrary , a stabilised approach is defined as : Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction ( ALAR ) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that " all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC . An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met : The aircraft is on the correct flight path Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute ; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual All briefings and checklists have been conducted Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfill the following : ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation ; and , Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing . An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around . ( Source : <URL> )
Mass does n't affect the maximum distance , only the maximum endurance . For example , image two identical planes A and B : A weights 50kg less than B. Assuming no wind ( horizontal / vertical ) and speed of best glide , both gliders will land at the exact same spot . The lighter airplane A however will arrive later than B , as the speed of best glide is less than for B . In conclusion you can say , that additional mass only increases cruise speed , but not the travel distance . Glider competitions are most of the time a route you have to fly in the shortest time possible . So that means , if you have a higher speed of best glide , you can fly faster in competitions . The only downside to having a higher weight is , that your liftrate in thermals will be decreased and due to the higher speed it is harder to center the thermals . It is to some extend also possible to shift the Centre of Gravity ( CG ) with the added load . The further it is to the aft limit , the higher your maximum distance is . This is because you will have less down-force from the stabilizer required . ( If the CG is at the front limit , you will need to pull the control stick in order to fly level , therefore you have more drag ) . However I think this is rather a positive side effect and most of the time the water is used for flying faster . Source : I am a glider pilot and currently doing my ATPL training .
end question
start question
How are " Owner-Produced Parts " handled under FAA regulations ?
The <URL> of FAAviation News ( now <URL> ) has a detailed article on owner-produced parts , including advice on best practices if you want to make your own parts . It does confirm that owners have very broad authority to do so , provided that they document everything properly . Typical reasons for producing your own parts are ( I 've paraphrased them from the article here ) : The aircraft has been out of production for years The aircraft is an orphan without a Type Certificate There is no technical support because the aircraft is so old There may be long delays in getting parts from the manufacturer The price of official parts is extremely high As for requirements of the part itself , the article list four characteristics that a part must have : The part must be properly designed The part must be produced to conform to the design The part 's production must be properly documented The part must be properly maintained The owner must be involved in the production but does n't actually have to do the manufacturing himself : The aircraft owner must participate in the manufacture of the part in at least one of five ways for it to be considered an Owner Produced Part . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the design or performance data . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the materials . The owner provides the manufacturer with fabrication processes or assembly methods . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with quality control procedures . The owner personally supervises the manufacture of the new part . More recently , in the September 2014 edition of the <URL> magazine , <URL> has an article on replacement parts that calls the current regulations on owner produced parts " extremely liberal " : " Owner-produced parts " do not require a PMA . These are parts produced by an aircraft owner for use on his own aircraft , and not offered for sale . There is an FAA letter of interpretation that sets forth precisely what an owner 's involvement must be to qualify a part as " owner-produced , " and it is extremely liberal . The owner need not actually manufacture the part himself , so long as he provides specifications or materials or supervision or some other meaningful participation in the part 's production . Unfortunately , he did n't mention exactly which letter of interpretation covers these parts but the FAA magazine article refers to an " FAA Memorandum dated August 5 , 1993 " and I guess it 's probably the same one . I was n't able to find it on the <URL> .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau recently published a comprehensive research paper on reported stall warnings in high capacity aircraft - <URL> The report says that 30 % of all stall warnings were false . Note that stall warnings are n't limited to the stick shaker . The report says that of all reported stick shaker events , 16 % were false warnings . Have a read of it , you 'll find lots of interesting bits of information .
The FAA 's <URL> contains broad statistical information on activity in the national airspace system which can be used to get an idea of how " busy " a particular Center , TRACON , or Tower facility is . The caveat is this data only encompasses aircraft talking to Air Traffic Control , so it wo n't be able to tell you anything about uncontrolled fields except possibly what you can glean from Center/TRACON activity information for the greater area . I 'm not sure where they get their data from , but <URL> has annual reported data for each airport in their Airports &amp; FBO 's database : For example , this is for KBRY ( which is uncontrolled ) :
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
Runways are usually numbered according to their direction , more precisely called runway magnetic bearing or QFU ( <URL> ) . Consider a plane flying toward the runway on final approach in a day without any wind . Divide its magnetic heading by 10 , round it to the nearest whole number and you 'll usually get the runway number . For example , if the magnetic heading is 345 ° then 345/10 = 34,5 , so the runway number will be 35 which will be a runway used for landings ( and takeoffs ) to the north . Opposite ends of the same runway have different numbers , 18 ( which represents 180 degrees ) apart . A runway with 35 for landings to the north will have runway 17 for landings to the south . Even though these are the same strip of concrete , they are treated as separate runways by pilots and controllers . If there are two airports near one another with runways at the same angle , sometimes one of the airports will add or subtract one from the runway number to help planes differentiate between the airports . Occasionally a runway number will change when the magnetic declination angle changes in such amount , making the runway magnetic bearing divided by 10 and rounded to the nearest whole number increase or decrease . Some runways in areas of large magnetic declination use true instead of magnetic headings for the runway numbers . This is not unusual in northern Canada and Greenland . When there is more than one parallel runway at an airport , L , R , or C may be appended to the runway number for Left , Right , or Center . These are based on the approach direction , so , for example , the runway 35L would be called 17R from the opposite direction .
Ground vehicles are really problematic at an airport . The problem is not so much a matter of regulation as a problem that the people driving the vehicles sometimes are unfamiliar with flight processes so they create hazards without really understanding the danger they are creating . The " regulations " are that nobody is supposed to be on taxiways or runways without approval whatever that means , but since the FAA can not revoke the license of somebody that does not have a license , it 's a toothless rule . Also , the typical runway intruder does not even have a radio , so getting approval is problematic for them . Cops are the worst offenders . I have seen some very dangerous situations evolve from ignorant cops with no idea what they are doing just driving onto runways acting like they are god or something . The main way the FAA interfaces to the ground control problem is to <URL> hoping that somebody will read them . Some airports have elaborate safety training for ground personnel , but the main risks usually come from untrained personnel at smaller airports where there is little or no training . This is one of the main reasons why most airports work hard to get good fencing set up , so some bozo does not drive onto the runway . In general , ground control takes care of authorizing vehicle movement and utility trucks are supposed to coordinate their actions with ground control . In untowered airports , utility trucks are supposed to call on CTAF to notify nearby pilots what they are doing , but unfortunately most do not have radios . Once I was landing and there was some truck on the side of the runway because the guy was removing a turtle or something . The truck had flashing lights so it was easy to see luckily .
The requirements are in <URL> , Chief instructor qualifications . They 're too long to quote here in full and the exact requirements depend on the type of instruction , but in summary : Hold a commercial or ATP certificate Hold a CFI certificate Pass knowledge and proficiency tests Meet minimum flight time requirements ( depending on the type of instruction , e.g. 1000 hrs PIC time is required for private pilot instruction ) Meet minimum flight training time requirements For training pilots for an instrument rating , the chief instructor also needs an instrument rating , instrument flight time and instrument training experience .
1 . The combustion chamber Temperature here is usually controlled via design of the chamber shape , in particular of the location where combustion occurs vs the airflow . Image <URL> In the image above you can see that the fuel line ( 2 ) terminates in a nozzle . The nozzle will turn the fuel into tiny droplets to increase the surface area and hasten the combustion process . Indicated with ( 6 ) are instead the main air holes : the cool air coming from the compressor ( on the left side ) enters the chamber with high pressure from these holes . Note that the holes are distributed in an annular pattern : high pressure air will be entering from all sides of the chamber . The result is that the flame will not directly touch the walls of the chamber , we then got rid of conductive heat transmission . Convective is a non-issue : cool air keeps coming and hot air goes into the turbine . Radiative heat transmission might be an issue , but the new air incoming will cool the walls via conduction . The engine can thus run without the combustion chamber melting . Note that the use of specific materials does greatly improve the conditions , as higher temperatures can be tolerated , and thus better efficiencies achieved . 2 . The turbine cooling air The air is usually bled from a stage of the compressor , usually a high pressure stage , in a similar manner as done for the air used for the passenger compartment . 3 . Thermal stresses a. Short term Over the duration of a flight the blades will warm up when the engine is turned on and cool down at the end of the flight . Intermediate load variation do not have a significant impact . Even the initial warming and the final cooling do not pose a significant problem . The only effect to be taken into account is that the rotating hot blades will become slightly longer : a special material is placed on the opposing stationary side so that the gap is minimal during operation and the losses due to the air going around the blades ( instead of between them ) are reduced . b. Prolonged The most problematic aspect here is the so called " creep " : the blades , after prolonged use , will tend to change shape , because they tend to be more malleable at high temperatures , exactly when they are under high tensile load . This becomes a problem over the lifetime of an engine , not during a single flight . To mitigate this problem the blades are nowadays manufactured as single crystals : each blade is a single solid block of metal and not made up af many tiny crystals as the metal tools we use everyday . This is because under tensile load each of the crystals can slide over its neighbors ( and high temperatures facilitate this ) changing the shape of the blade . To visualize it , think of a rubber band that does not go back to its original form . Having a single crystal prevents this sliding , giving more strength to the blade .
Generally there are two ways to get an interpretation of regulations from the FAA . The first ( less-formal ) way would be to call or email your <URL> with your question -- they will usually get back to you pretty quickly with a verbal opinion or an email ( on the two occasions I 've contacted the local FSDO I 've gotten an answer within 1-2 days ) . Interpretations from your local FSDO are essentially valid within their coverage area ( if you get an opinion from Farmingdale in New York the folks in Los Angeles , California may not honor it ) . The second ( very formal ) way is to write an actual on-paper letter to the FAA 's office of the chief counsel requesting a legal interpretation of some specific regulation ( s ) and <URL> : This request should be as specific as you can make it , for example : May the FAA hold a person who performs maintenance on an aircraft responsible for the proper performance of that maintenance under 43.13 ( a ) and ( b ) when that person was not the person who made the maintenance record entry required by 43.9 ? If your request is inspired by some ongoing action ( say a warning letter ) you should reference it and include a copy to help speed things along . The FAA 's legal staff will chew on the request for a while , and eventually produce <URL> ( the linked interpretation , which answers the example question above , took about 5 months , and it is a relatively simple interpretation - The more complex the regulation that needs to be interpreted the longer it will probably take ) . Counsel interpretations are organization-wide precedent , and <URL> . They are effective " The Final Word " on how regulations are to be applied ( unless overturned in court ) .
As long as the pilot is having a first class medical , her pregnancy should have no effect on the operations , at least legally , though the regulations differ from country to country . I 'm not aware of any FAA regulations that prohibit pilot ing during pregnancy . The closest it comes is in <URL> , which says ( noting that pregnancy is not a medical deficiency in any way and the regulation is taken here in the widest sense ) that : ( a ) Operations that require a medical certificate . Except as provided for in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person who holds a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter may act as pilot in command , or in any other capacity as a required pilot flight crewmember , while that person : ( 1 ) Knows or has reason to know of any medical condition that would make the person unable to meet the requirements for the medical certificate necessary for the pilot operation As long as the pilot feels that she is medically fit and has a valid medical certificate , they ca n't be legally prevented from flying the aircraft . In case of other regulattions ( like EASA ) , pregnant women are not allowed to pilot after 26 weeks of pregnance . For example , <URL> says : ( c ) Pregnancy ( 1 ) In the case of pregnancy , if the AeMC or AME considers that the licence holder is fit to exercise her privileges , he/she shall limit the validity period of the medical certificate to the end of the 26th week of gestation . After this point , the certificate shall be suspended . The suspension shall be lifted after full recovery following the end of the pregnancy . ( 2 ) Holders of class 1 medical certificates shall only exercise the privileges of their licences until the 26th week of gestation with an OML . There are a number of medical issues that the pilot should be aware of while pregnant , so that appropriate measures could be taken , like , Ability to move the controls to their full extent . Ability to wear seat belts . Effect of high altitude operation on the foetus among others . The airline policy will vary and they have to consider a number of other conditions - for example , the ability of flight crew to egress during a crash etc. .
This depends on the airport but at <URL> where I used to fly there was a $ 5 landing fee ( paid to the city of Philadelphia ) that was collected at the FBO ( where I rented the plane from ) when I paid for the rental . I think if you do not pass through an FBO they will hunt the tail number down and send a bill to the party that has the aircraft registered . Its tough to fly into an airport and not pass through the FBO ( unless you are just doing touch and goes ) . I would assume that for commercial traffic the airline/owning body pays and may even be billed by the airport monthly but I do n't know the specifics I only know what I have seen for GA traffic . If you are curious you can check out the Philadelphia Airport ( KPHL and KPNE ) <URL> which outlines the various fess and collection mechanisms the city imparts . Keep in mind these are city owned airports , see section V for details on collection but in short , Section V Part d Non-tenant Air Carriers and Operators not providing adequate surety or security in form and amount satisfactory to the Department of Commerce , to ensure payment of fees and charges , shall be required to pay all incurred fees and charges prior to aircraft departure . For the point of contrast lets take a small privately owned airport here in the US , <URL> in NJ has <URL> for parking and the such , but like most small airports like this , these fees are waved with the purchase of fuel ( usually at least some minimum amount ) . There would be no way to avoid paying ( well Im sure there is ) since usually the only way off the tarmac is through the FBO .
To start out with , I 'll be referring to how the US does it , and it 's generally laid out in the <URL> . Every facility has various blocks of codes that they can use to assign to flight plans , as described in the linked document . For example , a smaller tower/approach control , could use the codes 0101-0177 for IFR flights that are only in their airspace , and 0201-0277 for the VFR flights that stay in their airspace , and a Center would have a similar bank of codes for flights just in their airspace , and then a different bank for codes that go to different centers . The whole purpose to these allocations , is to minimize the need to change the squawk code while in the air , and to avoid overlap with adjacent facilities . As flight plans are submitted to the various computers , about 30 min before an Instrument flight plan 's proposed time , it 's officially assigned a code from the available blocks , and it 's printed at the departure airport or facility that 'll first work it . Flight plans stay in the system , depending on however long the center sets . Often it 's 2 hours , sometimes 3 , but during bad whether when lots of flights are being delayed , it could be extended to 4 + hours . The drop interval helps to keep enough codes available for aircraft intending to depart , while allowing flight plans to go away if something happens and the flight wo n't be departing . If the aircraft just randomly calls ATC , the controller types it in to either the radar or flight plan system , depending on what extent the pilot wants services , and then the system prints out an appropriate beacon code .
While these might not be specifically for static from the prop , <URL> help bleed charge away from the aircraft . Static definitely does build up on an airframe , requiring grounding ( electrically ) your plane before fueling .
Yes , based purely on the wing shape an airliner could fly upside down and maintain a straight inverted flight . The lift of the wing is a function of the vertical angle of the airflow , the angle of attack . <URL> <URL> The picture shows an airfoil pointed upwards , but the same forces apply when the wing nose point downwards . Then turn the picture upside down , and you have lift pointing upwards again . The situation is valid for an asymmetric airfoil as well , the only difference being that it provides lift at AoA zero . Zero lift is provided at a slight negative angle of attack , so the aircraft nose will be further up when inverted , still below the stall angle though .
<URL> that are capable of <URL> , and some aircraft can use this system to <URL> . However , <URL> and still has its limits , and other reasons for not always using this system are <URL> . Further reasons for this technology not being more fully developed yet are probably similar to <URL> . A completely automated , unmanned landing on a carrier has been done , <URL> . Although a computerized system is theoretically more capable of performing precise carrier landings , the details are complex . A lot of sensing and control must be worked out . The team behind the X-47B was awarded the <URL> for the advances in aeronautics they achieved . The sensors and processing that the UAV uses to do this are probably not all standard equipment on naval aircraft . Adding them would create extra expense and weight . If the system requires addition to the carrier as well , there is more added expense . And in a combat situation , do you want to rely on systems that could be jammed or failed ? If you are going to land the plane without a pilot , you might as well not have the pilot at all , and this is the route that future unmanned systems are taking , but there is a lot more work to be done before they completely replace human pilots .
In the US , they are assigned by a division in the FAA called <URL> , per <URL> ( Procedures for Handling Airspace Matter ) , section 3-3-2 : a. Service area office are responsible for assigning and changing names of NAVAID and aeronautical facilities , and must follow the instructions contained herein and in FAAO JO 7350.8 , Location Identifiers , Chapter 1 . b. AIM is responsible for issuing five − letter names for radio fixes , waypoints , marker beacons , and compass locators . Five − letter names must be issued by AIM to the Terminal Procedures and Charting Group , Major Military Commands ( MAJCOM ) and Air Route Traffic Control Centers ( ARTCC ) for future assignments . It 's conceivable they accept suggestions from ARTCCs or other entities . I do n't know . I doubt paid sponsorship is approved but have no first hand knowledge there . Suggestions are probably casual and intormal . They are often quite amusing , like <URL> . Very often enroute fixes are named for small towns or other points of interest near the fix .
<URL> provides some direction . CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating The operator shall establish procedures to ensure that passengers are seated where , in the event that an emergency evacuation is required , they are able to assist and not hinder evacuation of the aircraft . Further clarification can be found from <URL> . AMC2 CAT.OP.MPA .165 Passenger seating ACCESS TO EMERGENCY EXITS The following categories of passengers are among those who should not be allocated to , or directed to , seats that permit direct access to emergency exits : ( a ) passengers suffering from obvious physical or mental disability to the extent that they would have difficulty in moving quickly if asked to do so ; ( b ) passengers who are either substantially blind or substantially deaf to the extent that they might not readily assimilate printed or verbal instructions given ; ( c ) passengers who because of age or sickness are so frail that they have difficulty in moving quickly ; ( d ) passengers who are so obese that they would have difficulty in moving quickly or reaching and passing through the adjacent emergency exit ; ( e ) children ( whether accompanied or not ) and infants ; ( f ) deportees , inadmissible passengers or persons in custody ; and ( g ) passengers with animals . Whether or not a person can sit in the emergency exit row may also depend on if the specific seat is designated as an emergency exit . For example , on narrow body aircraft , generally all seats in the emergency exit row are considered emergency exit seats and only persons who " able to assist " can sit in those locations . However , on some wide body aircraft , only seats on the window sides are considered emergency exit seats . On an aircraft with a 2-3-2 configuration , the 3 seats in the middle are not considered exit row seats and therefore do not have any further safety requirements .
According to <URL> : Flight time is recorded : ( 1 ) for aeroplanes , touring motor gliders and powered-lift aircraft , from the moment an aircraft first moves to taking off until the moment it finally comes to rest at the end of the flight ; That seems to be the same as the FAA regulation .
I like to show people videos of <URL> These videos show that wind does not have an effect on how well the aircraft stays in the air - no matter how strong it is , it only effects the path taken over the ground . A steady wind makes zero difference to the aerodynamics , whether it is a piper cub or a 747 . The aircraft does n't know what the wind is doing - comparable to you closing your eyes while floating on a smooth flowing river , you would n't think you are moving . The stated crosswind limit is only for landing , when you need to be able to fly in a straight line with precision . I think the big thing you 're forgetting is that the wind correction angle is affected by the true airspeed ( TAS ) . The faster the TAS , the less correction is needed for the same wind . Think about it , if you are travelling forward at a faster velocity , it will take a bigger force to knock you off course . 737s have a TAS of about 400-450kts , so whilst a 150kt wind is strong , it 's not all that different to a 30kt wind in a GA aircraft . 99 % of the time there will be a crosswind component of some kind , but the method of correction for jets is no different to GA - just point the noise into wind as per your calculations . Back to flying backwards for a minute . The only safety issue would be if the wind were to suddenly stop . The aircraft indicated airspeed would suddenly be 0 and a potentially unrecoverable stall could develop . But one thing many ' ground dwellers ' do n't appreciate is that the wind - in fair weather - is actually fairly constant when it is not effected by ground obstacles and friction . Generally speaking , the higher you go , the more steady and predictable the wind will be .
end question
start question
Is it OK to make an approach without any straight-in segment at all ?
If the aircraft has not established a <URL> , a go around is required . According to EUROCONTROL 's Skybrary , a stabilised approach is defined as : Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction ( ALAR ) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that " all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC . An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met : The aircraft is on the correct flight path Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute ; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual All briefings and checklists have been conducted Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfill the following : ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation ; and , Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing . An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around . ( Source : <URL> )
Neither technique is " preferable " - the assumption that one is superior to the other is one of the most common <URL> ( and over-simplifications ) in aviation . With some notable exceptions ( like the Ercoupe which is incapable of a slip and lands crabbed ) a proper crosswind landing should involve elements of both techniques . Crabbing Crabbing involves turning the nose into the wind so that some component of the aircraft 's thrust is counteracting the crosswind , allowing the aircraft 's ground track to align with the runway . Advantages Flying on final it is advantageous to crab into the wind : It is aerodynamically more favorable than a slip , and as the aircraft is kept coordinated it is more comfortable for passengers than a slip . Pilots often find a crab subjectively " easier " to maintain for extended periods of time compared to a slip : It does not require the pilot to maintain " crossed controls " , and it 's similar to how we maintain our course in other phases of flight ( you were probably crabbing into the wind on downwind just a few seconds ago , and on instrument approaches flying the localizer in a crab is analogous to tracking a VOR on the enroute portion of your flight ) . Disadvantages On touchdown however landing in a crab will put a side-load on the landing gear ( the aircraft is traveling along the runway centerline , but the gear is not aligned with that direction of travel ) . In extreme cases this can damage the tires , cause difficulty controlling the aircraft , and possibly even damage the landing gear assembly itself . " Kicking out the crab " to align the landing gear with the runway requires an abrupt control movement at low altitude ( generally not a good thing ) , and if done too early the crosswind will begin to blow the aircraft across the runway ( leading to a landing that 's not on the centerline , a side-load on the gear , and in the worst case an unintended departure from the runway surface . Slipping Slipping involves banking the aircraft so that some portion of the wing 's lift is counteracting the crosswind . Ordinarily the aircraft would tend to turn in the direction of the bank , so opposite rudder is applied to prevent the aircraft from turning and maintain the ground track parallel to the runway . Advantages Touching down on the runway a slip has the advantage of allowing you to align your landing gear with your direction of travel ( down the runway ) and avoid side-loading the gear . It also allows you to touch down on the upwind landing gear first which helps to stabilize the early roll-out , and positions your ailerons appropriately for taxiing with the crosswind . Disadvantages Slipping down final however is likely to make your passengers uncomfortable - the plane is slanted in one direction , the rudder is pushing the nose around in the other direction , and folks start to feel like their butt is sliding out of the seat . Aside from passenger comfort a slip is a terribly inefficient aerodynamic arrangement ( you 're essentially trying to fly sideways ) , and not a " normal " way to fly in other phases of flight . You may have difficulty estimating the aircraft 's performance and require power to maintain your glide path in this configuration . Combining the techniques So a crab is advantageous on final ( and flying an instrument approach ) , and a slip is advantageous on touchdown . It logically follows that the two techniques can be combined to provide the advantages of both : Crab down final ( or on the localizer ) . At some point transition into a slip . Exactly where you make this transition is pilot preference , but the transition should be smooth , simultaneously bringing the nose around to align with the runway while banking into the wind to counteract the crosswind component . Touch down in the slip . Complete your rollout with the appropriate crosswind aileron deflection , controlling your ground track with the rudder as needed to prevent weathervaning .
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
There is no provision in the ILS system to provide for an auto-taxi or runway vacate . IIIc is just zero-zero and roll-out control , not auto-vacate as the <URL> seems to suggest . Its a logical extension of the FAA definition , however auto-taxi is not part of the CAT IIIc definition or system requirements . The only requirement is to get the aircraft on the runway and stopped . <URL> provides for the definition of a CAT IIIc approach : c. Category IIIc . A precision instrument approach and landing with no DH and no runway visual range limitation . Right now there is no airport approved for IIIc approaches because the aircraft would just sit on the runway , it has no way of taxiing in . Until an augmentation system like GPS with WAAS or LAAS , or the " Ground-Based Augmentation System " is developed further , automatic taxi is not there . There is no provision in the existing ILS signals that allow for an aircraft to vacate the runway . GPS is as close as you can get , but that may be unreliable especially with larger aircraft like the Airbus A380 that does n't have much play on either side , so GPS accuracy will have to be augmented with something . Additionally a system will have to be in place to avoid aircraft from colliding on adjacent taxiways or to manage traffic in and around the gate . From a technical standpoint , this is a long way off , even with ground based radar systems , GBAS , and LAAS that are currently undergoing evaluation at several major airports world-wide . Also see this <URL> and <URL>
Under the US FARs ( at least part 91 ) nothing special is required to take off in CAT IIIb weather besides an operational ( and IFR-legal ) aircraft and pilot . As mentioned elsewhere you can legally make that Zero/Zero takeoff where you ca n't even see the runway under your nose . It should go without saying that doing so would be incredibly stupid <URL> , but from a technical standpoint there 's nothing preventing the operation except the knowledge that you might run off the side of the runway into a ditch and bang up your aircraft and passengers . In terms of what would be required to make the takeoff safely , without running off the side of the runway into a ditch , I 'd posit that you would need the same capabilities as you 'd need to make the CAT IIIb landing safely : Aircraft systems that let you reliably track down the centerline for takeoff ( using the ILS or something of equivalent accuracy for guidance , and runway centerline lights ) . You would also need a reliable way to get from the gate to the runway , so taxiway centerline lights &amp; stop bar lights are a must , and probably <URL> or its functional equivalent with a controller monitoring it to help ensure you do n't taxi into another aircraft . All of the above is predicated on , among other things , being able to see the lights I mentioned . The <URL> mentioned elsewhere adds synthetic vision into the mix which further enhances safety ( and in the airline world allows takeoffs down to 300ft RVR ) . From what I can glean from the Rockwell-Collins marketing material their HGS seems to be able to provide " follow the green dots " taxi guidance ( and presumably runway centerline guidance for the takeoff roll as well ) , providing redundancy for the lights I described above to help the pilot ensure the aircraft is going where they want it to .
This regulation does not apply to an ILS approach . You are right is saying that " the VOR system of radio navigation " refers to actual VORs . If the flight is conducted using GPS to an ILS approach then you are n't using VOR for navigation . It does not matter that ILS uses the same instrument display . Intuitively , though ILS and VOR use the same display and frequency band , they are functionally different . The VOR beacon sends out a omnidirectional signal , from which a bearing ( 0-359 degrees ) is calculated . The ILS sends out a focused , directional signal , which the receiver centers on .
A warm up apron is a portion of the airfield close to the runway entry , where the engine can be warmed up before taking off . It seems to be more frequently used in military documentation . There are such aprons at Cairns Army Airfield : <URL> <URL> Found in FAA regulations , e.g. <URL> : PAPI LHAs must not be located closer than 50 ft from a crossing runway , taxiway , or warm-up apron or within the ILS critical area . But also in other not regulatory documents , here for synonymous of hardstand : ... construction of the RMP test section and warm-up apron ( hardstand ) at the east end of Runway 04-22 . The RMP warm-up apron was successfully constructed and has been opened for traffic since October 1992 . Source : <URL> A vintage post-card : <URL> Source : <URL>
It depends . As always . If thrust is high enough , why not ? <URL> is a regular part of aerobatic performances , and the fuselage is producing almost * all the needed lift . This requires Enough speed , A low ratio of aircraft mass to fuselage side area , and Enough rudder deflection to trim the aircraft in a sufficiently high sidelip angle . For horizontal flight your installed thrust must be sufficient to compensate for the high drag in this attitude . This should be no problem with powerful propeller aircraft if their fuel system keeps them supplied at this attitude . Jets must make sure that the sideslip angle can be tolerated by the intake . The smoke from the exhaust indicates that this biplane flies horizontally . Yes , it is a large model airplane ( not man-carrying , but almost big enough for that ) . But the laws of physics do n't change with scale . For an example of a full-size aircraft doing a knife edge , see <URL> . Thanks go to @romkyns for pointing this out to me ! Note the rudder deflection to keep it at this angle of sideslip . Direction is controlled with the elevator . At this rate of sideslip the propeller thrust contributes to overall lift as well , however , the vertical adds a substantial downforce in order to trim the aircraft and the fuselage has to supply the remaining lift . * Almost means that the propeller will carry some of the weight , but the large downforce on the vertical needs to be compensated , too . In sum , the lift contributed by the fuselage is very close to the weight of the plane .
Sure you can . Just request to fly the approach using either radar vectors or initial approach fixes , if available . The tower will usually comply and grant you the approach clearance , adding " maintain VFR " i.e. . The approach should be flown under visual flight rules and you can not use a view limiting device unless you have an appropriately rated safety pilot onboard with access to dual flight controls . For non towered airports , you will need to listen for traffic in the area on the CTAF and provide position reports often for the benefit of other pilots in the pattern . Flying practice instrument approaches in VFR is quite common and many pilots do this to maintain instrument proficiency . It is also common for instrument rated pilots to file a local IFR flight plan to practice as well .
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
NOTE : This answer is specific to the United States as the question uses an example approach procedure from an airport in the United States . Procedures may vary for other nations . Consult the respective Aeronautical Information Publication for specific guidance . As long as you hear the magic words " cleared approach , " you can begin your descent as soon as you cross the IAF the first time ( while beginning your teardrop maneuver ) and continue to descend to the minimum altitude while in the circuit , which is at or above 2000 for this particular procedure . Note that you MUST be on a published segment of the approach before making your descent , otherwise terrain clearance is not assured . The controller will expect you to proceed from the IF to the FAF after the first circuit is complete ( a course reversal maneuver , if executed counts as the first circuit ) . You must advise the controller if additional circuits are required in order to lose altitude . Also , if the controller clears you for a " straight-in " approach and doing so would result in an excessive descent rate , it is incumbent upon you as the pilot to advise the controller that you are unable . Reference : <URL>
Not officially , no . The official approaches are available in a PDF format to download for 20 CAD for each volume . However , <URL> claims to provide free , up-to-date charts : In cooperation with Nav Canada , FltPlan.com is pleased to announce free Canadian Approach Plates , also know as CAP ( Canada Air Pilot ) . These online charts include all instrument approaches , airport diagrams , SIDs , STARs , and special use approach plates for Canadian Airports . They work similarly to the already available U.S. approach plates . CAP is an extension of FltPlan.com 's continuously expanding coverage of Canada , Mexico , Latin America and the Caribbean . In May of this year , we expanded our coverage to include the filing of IFR intra-Canada flight plans . The availability of free , online Canadian Approach Plates brings a new level of safety and convenience for pilots in the planning stages of their trip . Though I have not seen anything from Nav Canada stating that this is " in cooperation with Nav Canada " , they do <URL> of paper charts . Note <URL> warns that these charts shall not be printed as a replacement for " proper " paper charts -- I am not sure whether these are deemed to be official or not , but it is rather unlikely .
The FAA says ( per 14 CFR 91.185 ) : If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins , leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received , or if none has been received , upon arrival over the clearance limit , and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended ( with ATC ) estimated time en route . This seems to answer your question unless you have a more specific one . You can descend to an IAF as you see fit and commence any approach . ATC will clear the way .
Update with relevant info from <URL> ( I 'm skipping the FTD portions as not relevant to the question , and including the simulated parts but italicizing them as they 're useful but also not relevant ) . Translated , you can log an approach when : it is flown solely by reference to instruments , and it is flown in IMC , and Actual Instrument time is logged , or the PF is using a view-limiting device , and Simulated Instrument time is logged ; you must fly the complete approach from a feeder or the IAP ( or Vectors to Final ) and remain established the whole time . This means you fly initial , intermediate , and final segments , unless you 're on vectors . if flying the approach in IMC , you may log an approach that : continues to DA/DH or MDA in actual , or becomes VMC before DA/DH or MDA , provided you are inside the FAF . if simulating the approach , you must continue to the DA/DH or MDA under the hood ( or other VLD ) ; That 's pretty much it . Here 's the source text : A pilot may log an IAP for currency or training when the pilot accomplishes the IAP in accordance with the following conditions : When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must operate that aircraft or authorized training device solely by reference to instruments [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] ; When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must be established on each required segment of the IAP to the minimum descent altitude ( MDA ) or decision altitude/decision height ( DA/DH ) ; When conducted in an aircraft simulating instrument flight conditions , a flight simulator , a flight training device , or an aviation training device , the simulated instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) must continue to MDA or DA/DH ; and When conducted in an aircraft , the flight must be conducted under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] . When conducted in an aircraft maneuvering in IMC , and the aircraft transitions from IMC to visual flight conditions on the final approach segment of the IAP prior to or upon reaching MDA or DA/DH . Previously , I linked to Rod Machado , who cites the FAA in an <URL> to this that I quite like , and which was pretty frequently referred to when I was instructing at a flight school : Once you have been cleared for and have initiated an instrument approach in IMC , you may log that approach for instrument currency , regardless of the altitude at which you break out of the clouds . ... but this is not the latest knowledge anymore . It 's functionally pretty close to the InFo rules for IMC approaches , though !
Perhaps an aeronautic version of one of the Voith maritime systems ? This one appears to be electrically powered . <URL> ( watch the " installation " video ) . Also , this video explains the concept a bit ( for maritime applications ) I suppose if you could arrange a lightweight frictionless magnetic ring bearing ( possibly integrating electric drive ) , and/or peripheral drive linking system , it might be worth it if you needed to have two or three smaller fans beside each other , driven by a single core , rather than a singe large fan , in order to reduce fan/nacelle height . ( imagine a B52 nacelle with one side shortened to just a fan cowling ) I doubt that this would reduce overall drag , though , but I am intrigued by the concept of the greatest chord of the blades travelling the fastest .
Yes take-off without flaps is possible . The Airbus A300 and Boeing 767 are approved for such take-offs and it is being done regularly . It results in a better climb gradient , especially with one engine out . The one engine out climb gradient is an important and sometimes limiting factor in take-off calculations . One important constraint is the length of the runway . Another limitation , perhaps less obvious , is the maximum rolling speed of the wheels . The tires are rated to a limited speed which may be exceeded by a flap-less take-off .
A monitored approach is a special kind of instrument approach involving added verbal call outs and increased monitoring of the airplane and is typically conducted when weather is below a certain threshold . For example , a crew may be required to fly a monitored approach if the weather is below 3/4 mile vis and the captain has less than 100 hours in type , or in any case with the weather below ILS Category I minimums . It is also specific to multi-crew aircraft and requires at least 2 pilots and in many cases an autopilot . In a crew environment , the pilots are typically designated as Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Not Flying ( PNF ) . In general the PF is flying and making commands of the PNF , and the PNF mans the radios and operates gear and flaps the command of the PF . More detail of this setup probably deserves its own question . To illustrate a monitored approach , I 'll describe on based on my companies procedures . The specific requirements can vary between operators based on crew training , aircraft equipment and approved opspecs . The monitored approach briefing We have identified the arrival airport current weather is 1200 RVR and obscured ceilings and we plan to fly the ILS to category II minimums . Myself and my first officer have both have current category 2 training , neither of us are high-minimums , and the aircraft has no MEL items effecting category 2 operations . We are legal to fly the approach , but company operations require we fly it as a monitored approach . Regardless of who has been PF and PNF up to this point , the first officer becomes the PF and the captain the PNF . The PF briefs the approach as normal except for : CAT II radar altitude minimums Low vis taxi routes if applicable The approach will be flown by the autopilot ( company specific ) Special autopilot considerations Required verbal call outs ( see below ) The monitored approach For my company , the autopilot had to be engaged in " CAT 2 " mode before glideslope intercept . This will vary by aircraft and company . For the approach , as noted earlier , the first officer is PF , captain is PNF . The PF duties are to monitor the autopilot and to execute the missed approach if the autopilot has problems . The PNF also monitors the autopilot . The pilots are monitoring the autopilot for performance and for indications it can not meet required tolerances for the approach . PF will call for gear and flaps as normal , except a non standard flap setting may be used for the approach ( e.g. we flew flaps 22 instead of 45 ) . Once configured for landing , the PF will call for " Landing checklist - to the line " ( company specific ) , this for us was the normal landing checklist with the caveat that the checklist is complete when the captain announces " Landing , I have the airplane " ( more on this in a moment ) . Nearing the Cat II decision height ( typically 100 ft RA ) , the PNF will announce " Going heads up " , discontinue monitoring the autopilot and look for the approach lighting system and the runway lights . The PF will continue to monitor the autopilot . The airplane will announce " Minimums " at the radar altitude DH and when the airplane reaches this height , the PNF will fly the missed approach . If the captain sees the required lighting to continue the approach , they will announce " Landing , I have the airplane " , and the FO will reply " you have the airplane , landing checklist complete . The Captain must disconnect the autopilot ( by 50 feet , no autoland for us ) , and would fly any aborted landing executed after taking control . Caveats Rules on autopilot usage , disconnect heights and autolanding will vary based on aircraft and company policies . My example assumes an Embraer-145 certified for Cat 2 approaches and no autothrottles or autoland capability . Checklist verbiage and flap configurations mentioned also would vary by aircraft and company . And finally , the specific callouts will vary by company . While it seems like there was a lot of Category II specific things in my example , the two concepts of reduced visibility ILS approaches and monitored approaches are intertwined , and you will almost always be flying a monitored approach because it is required to conduct the low weather approach by company policy .
Eurocontrol has an online repository of <URL> . You 'll need to register , but the basic service is free . By default , the application is JAVA applet based , which works not in the best way . After logging on , you can change the default behaviour to HTML based , which makes it more user friendly . Then clicking " Enter Application " will bring to the next level . Here you 'll find several reporting options , but what you are interested in is located under " PAMS Light [ AIP ] " Select the country you are interested in , " Charts " for AIP type and " AD " for Aerodrome and there you have the charts .
end question
start question
Why do VTOL aircraft ( F-35 or Harrier ) have only one engine ?
VTOL aircraft can have more than one engine . It is just that the design process of the Harrier and F-35 led to a situation where only one engine was required . The main challenge in any VTOL aircraft is to have the engine produce thrust in two different phases of flight : during cruise and during takeoff/landing . This basically requires the powerplant on the aircraft to have two different characteristics at those two phases , because The direction of the thrust vector is different in TO/Landing and cruise Amount of thrust required is different ; for vertical TO , the thrust should be more than the weight while in cruise , the required thrust is ( comparatively ) pretty low . A number of approaches have been tried to solve this problem : Takeoff the aircraft vertically ( aka the tail sitter ) , like <URL> , and then transition to horizontal flight . However , one major problem is the pilot has severe disorientation problems during transition Put extra fans , like the <URL> . The problem was the large ( wing ) area taken up by the fan and weight penalties . Ironically , a similar concept has been used in F-35 Put extra engines specifically for vertical lift ( aka the ' Rolls Royce Concept ' ) , used in <URL> . Though this offered ( theoretically ) better safety , the weight penalty was too much . Optimise the main engine for cruise and deflect the thrust for takeoff and augment with ( small ) lift engines ( aka the tiltjet concept ) , like the German <URL> . This reduced the weight penalty and complexity , but reduced safety in the event of an engine failure . In order to avoid the weight penalty , the best approach is to have no extra engines at all , with the thrust deflected down at take off and landing . This was called ' vectored thrust ' ( a term attributed to Theodore Von Karman ) . This concept was tested in the <URL> , which had fixed eingines and thrust vectoring vanes that deflected the exhaust to achieve vertical lift . <URL> Source : history.nasa.gov In case of the Harrier , the engine , the <URL> was first developed ( as BE .53 ) and the Hawker aircraft decided to develop an aircraft around it . During the design proces , the aircraft was redesigned around the Hawker modified BE 53 which the rear jet was split into two , like the <URL> , which had a similar arrangement . This lead to the ' four poster ' thrust vectoring system in the Harrier . <URL> Source : www.aerospaceweb.org This is the reason , the Harrier had a single engine . The case of F-35 is different . The F-35 was designed to replace aircraft operated by a number of US services , and as such had conflicting design requirements . At one end , the USAF wanted a conventional fighter while the USMC wanted a VTOL aircraft . The USN requirements were somewhere in the middle . Lockheed designers decided that the best way to meet these requirements is to have a separate fan for lifting the aircraft in VTOL , which can simply be eliminated in the USAF and USN variants . This led to the lift fan arrangement ( eerily similar to the Vertifan arrangement ) . <URL> " <URL> " by Tosaka - Own work . Licensed under CC BY 3.0 via <URL> . So , in case of F-35 the use of a single engine was the best way to meet the requirements . The engine used , the <URL> is the most powerful fighter jet engine in service , which helps in making F-35 the first supersonic VTOL aircraft .
There are several advantages , here are a few : Design costs are lower for a family of aircraft ; major parts of the aircraft are the same in the family . A family of aircraft share the same type certificate . This means it is cheaper for the manufacturer to certify a family of aircraft . Within a family of aircraft , pilots can operate all aircraft with no or very little additional training required . This saves the airline a lot of money . Maintenance on a family of aircraft is cheaper since the majority of parts are common to all family members . This means having less spare parts in stock and less training for maintenance personnel . For an airline there is often a benefit in having some capacity diversity in a fleet . A new route often starts at low capacity . When the volume of passengers rises replacing the flight by a larger aircraft from the same family is not disruptive to crew schedules .
Brake temperature sensors are quite common on airliners . Turnaround times of large aircraft are often impacted by the required cooling time . This is because during take-off the brakes must be cool enough to absorb the heat of a possible rejected take-off . Brake temperature and tire pressure indication on the Airbus A330 ( note the deflated tire &amp; high temperatures ) Source : <URL> t
ymb1 is right - stealth and not styling determine the looks of both the F-22 and the F-35 . But there is more to it . Watch Lockheed test pilot Tom Morgenfeld talk about them in <URL> : The juicy bits are at 37:15 ' and at 43:35 ' into the video . Concerning the F-22 he says : Northrop built the F-23 exactly to what the Air Force asked for , while Lockheed built what the Air Force secretly wanted . And that was another F-15 , with similar manoeuvrability . Concerning the F-35 he says Lockheed 's goal was to build an aircraft which is at least as good as an F-18 around the ship . This means manoeuvrability to land on a carrier even from off-nominal conditions ; very forgiving to fly . By using the F-22 baseline , this manoeuvrability could be ensured . Now look at all three of them : <URL> McDonnell-Douglas F-15 Eagle ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Lockheed-Martin F-22 Raptor ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Lockheed-Martin F-35 Lightning II ( picture <URL> ) They look similar , do n't they ? Differences like a forward swept trailing edge and <URL> are due to stealth , as is <URL> .
I think it 's because the last 747-400 was built in 2009 . <URL> Except for a passenger-carrying airplane with more than two engines manufactured prior to February 17 , 2015 and except for a two-engine airplane that , when used in ETOPS , is only used for ETOPS of 75 minutes or less , no certificate holder may conduct ETOPS unless the airplane has been type design approved for ETOPS and each airplane used in ETOPS complies with its CMP document as follows : ( a ) For a two-engine airplane , that is of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes prior to February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination in effect on February 14 , 2007 . ( b ) For a two-engine airplane , that is not of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes before February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that new model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 1 ) of this chapter . ( c ) For a two-engine airplane approved for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 2 ) of this chapter . ( d ) For an airplane with more than 2 engines manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( c ) of this chapter . § 25.3 Special provisions for ETOPS type design approvals . ( a ) Applicability . This section applies to an applicant for ETOPS type design approval of an airplane : ( 1 ) That has an existing type certificate on February 15 , 2007 ; or ( 2 ) For which an application for an original type certificate was submitted before February 15 , 2007 . ( b ) Airplanes with two engines . ( 1 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane up to and including 180 minutes , an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 , except that it need not comply with the following provisions of Appendix K , K25 .1.4 , of this part : ( i ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) , fuel system pressure and flow requirements ; ( ii ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , low fuel alerting ; and ( iii ) K25 .1.4 ( c ) , engine oil tank design . ( 2 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane beyond 180 minutes an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 . ( c ) Airplanes with more than two engines . An applicant for ETOPS type design approval must comply with § 25.1535 for an airplane manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , except that , for an airplane configured for a three person flight crew , the applicant need not comply with Appendix K , K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , of this part , low fuel alerting .
RTCA documents are not FAA documents , although the FAA is usually a member of the Special Committee that creates the documents . If an example is to be added , it is the decision of the SC , not of the FAA . The reason that no examples are given is that the recommendation is clear by itself . A good V&amp;V engineer will read this recommendation and use his skill , experience and creativity to find an other acceptable means to validate the software requirements that can not be validated in a realistic environment . This alternative means is then documented in the SVP . Giving an example is not helpful at all , since the solution will depend completely on the software under test and the nature of the requirements . If the hardware is not available , an emulator may be the solution . In other cases artificial test inputs have to be generated , because failing a test in a realistic environment may prove to be catastrophic .
There is plenty of information on the Internet on how <URL> , however the codes are sometimes not directly assigned by ICAO , <URL> . ICAO Document 7910 - Location Identifiers contains codes allocated by national governments , on behalf of ICAO , to airports , airfields and other facilities such as ATC and weather stations . Ultimately , it is the national CAA 's or other authorities ' decision whether to assign a code and get it validated through ICAO . The decision may be based on political , historical or other reasons , there is no minimum requirements for airports to receive an ICAO code . Am I correct in assuming that airports without ICAO codes do n't have codes because of the lack of a control tower ? Or is there other reasons for this ? The availability of a control tower is not a requirement for ICAO codes , even small uncontrolled fields with grass strips can have an ICAO code , example : <URL> <URL>
The purpose of the roll posts is to let the pilot have some control authority in hover and stabilization , along with controlling aircraft attitude . Basically , the <URL> used in the VTOL F-35 has three components connected by drive shaft ( along with the engine ) : The LiftFan at the front Three-bearing swivel module ( 3BSM ) , which turns the nozzle through 95 $ ^ \ circ $ , and Two Roll posts on either side of the fuselage . <URL> F-35 Liftfan system ; image from <URL> Basically , some bypass air is directed towards the ( individually adjustable ) roll post ducts to ensure stability during hover , which is done by the onboard computer . In this image , you can see the roll post doors opening on outboard sides of the MLG doors . <URL> F-35 roll post doors opening ; image from <URL> The 3-Bearing Swivel Module ( 3BSM ) has three segments driven by two actuators ( the first one drives the first segment , while the second one drives the second segment directly and the third one through an angle gearbox ) . The three segments are cut at an angle , so that when transferring from forward flight to hover , the central segment ends up with its longer edge at the top ( so that their sections with maximum length are on the same side ) , thus ' summing ' the bearing offset angles to give a 95 $ ^ \ circ $ deflection of the jetpipe nozzle in the downward direction . From <URL> : The three-bearing swivel nozzle , 3BSN , design uses three segments of the engine exhaust duct cut on an angle and joined by two airtight circular bearings . External motors drive geared teeth in these segments to rotate them to create the deflected thrust . The forward and aft segments always stay aligned with one another in the rotational axis . The center segment rotates through 180 degrees relative to them . The third bearing is on the back of the engine aft of the turbine stage and provides the ability to swivel the nozzle thrust axis in yaw at any pitch angle . <URL> Three bearing swivel module , from <URL>
The optimization problem is unchanged from the all engines operative ( AEO ) cruise optimization . You should still : Climb as high as practical ( <URL> , thinner air is better for range ) Set the lift coefficient such that drag is minimized for propeller aircraft ( $ c _ { Di } = c _ { D0 } $ ) . For turbojets , minimize energy per flight time ( $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { 1 } { 3 } \ cdot c _ { D0 } $ ) . For turbofans , pick a value between those two extremes . For the computation of the theoretical optimum polar point please see <URL> for a complete derivation including wind , or <URL> for a shorter explanation . Your flight altitude will certainly be lower , because you need to generate more thrust on the remaining engine ( requiring higher density ) , which in turn will result in a lower TAS ( true air speed ) . The CAS ( calibrated airspeed ) should stay about the same , however . The configuration ( flaps , gear ) should stay unchanged , only rudder deflection will be added for <URL> compensation . The resulting sideslip will increase the zero-lift drag of the airplane a little , so a slightly lower speed than in the AEO case would result . In the unlikely case that the required density will result in an altitude below ground level , you will need to slow down and need to set flaps to stay airborne , and now the new optimum with flaps will result in a markedly higher lift coefficient because deploying flaps will increase the zero-lift drag quite a bit . If you have the flaps-down polar , the optimum is easy to find .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
Winglets on wings help because they increase the volume of air on which the wing can act . <URL> , but when span is restricted or the maximum wing bending moment is limited , winglets bring a small improvement in efficiency at high lift coefficients . <URL> , however , the winglets would run through air which is already affected by the tips of the propeller . No additional air will be involved , so no efficiency increase will be possible . Please note that propulsive efficiency is increased by accelerating more air by a smaller amount . The formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an air breathing engine is $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the inflowing air and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the air affected by the propeller disc . A smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . This effect is most pronounced when $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low . The prop tip winglets would operate in a region of high dynamic pressure and generate more friction drag without contributing to the prop 's efficiency . By the way : Whoever tells you that winglets reduce induced drag quite a bit has something to sell to you , but I digress .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
Small aircraft need very low mounted wings to allow for a decent cabin height . The last commercial airliner which required the passengers to climb over the wing spar on their way to their seat was the <URL> . Low wings do not allow the necessary space for engines , so the next best location is on the rear fuselage . Also , small aircraft have a relatively short fuselage , and the gear can be made short ( and light ) without risking a tail strike on rotation . Fighters need to have small moments of inertia , especially in roll , so they can not afford to put engines on the wings . Even the Me-262 was initially planned with fuselage-mounted engines , that 's why it had this peculiar triangular fuselage cross section . Only when the engines grew in diameter during development they had to be placed on the wing . Pros of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : The wing is clean , having low drag and optimum conditions for lift creation . The engines are easy to access ( if mounted at the rear fuselage . Different story with buried engines ! ) . Smaller vertical tail needed for asymmetric thrust conditions . Shorter , lighter landing gear possible ( if rotation capability is not compromised ) . Low roll inertia . Cons of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : No bending relief for the wing ; heavier wing spar needed . No help in flutter supression ( a mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) . Possible interference with wing wake at high angle of attack . Forces the tail to be a T-tail configuration . More structure needed to carry the thrust forces forward . Intake noise is more audible , especially for passengers in the rear seats . This picture of a Cessna Citation X should illustrate the point nicely .
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
Stealth . The F-35 's nozzle is designed in that manner to reduce the IR and radar emissions from the aircraft ( sometimes called Low Observable Axisymmetric Nozzle ( LOAN ) ) . From the <URL> which announced the test results : GE Aircraft Engines ' new LO Axi ( Low Observable Axisymmetric ) Exhaust System was successfully tested recently ... testing being conducted under the Joint Strike Fighter ( JSF ) Technology Maturation Program ... According to GE , ... LO Axi Nozzle was installed by the South Dakota Air National Guard in an F-16C and ground-tested to verify installation compatibility with an operational aircraft system . Both infrared ( IR ) and radio frequency ( RF ) measurements were made by GE Aircraft Engines ( GEAE ) with the F110-GE-100 engine operating at power settings ranging from idle to maximum afterburner . The resulting test data verified that the LO Axi Nozzle achieves its installed signature goals during operation . In addition to geometrical shaping and special materials for signature control , the LO Axi Nozzle also incorporates an ejector that enhances nozzle cooling . The system was originally tested on a F-16 . The following image shows the nozzle while it was under testing <URL> Detailled rear view of a standard P&amp;W F-100-200 still installed in the LOAN aircraft and the LOAN nozzle in the foreground ( LMTAS photo ) ; image from <URL>
Several possible reasons . Speed differences between aircraft classes . Larger jets cruise and land at much faster speeds than single-engine props . Keeping their pattern separate from slower traffic minimizes problems posed by a faster plane entering the pattern behind a slower one . Noise abatement . A jet , even a smaller private one at near-idle in approach , is loud . Keeping them higher increases the distance and number of thermal strata to shield nearby residents from traffic noise . Prevailing instrument conditions and relative pilot experience levels . A ceiling below 1000 feet , the small craft pattern altitude , would ground VFR flights and thus drastically reduce the number of small craft in the first place . Jets , turboprops and other larger planes are much more likely to be IFR-capable ( plane and pilot ) and so they 're placed higher because they can deal with clouds in the pattern ( the airport , if towered , would likely alter pattern height to clear cloud layers but traffic holding above the clouds would still require an IFR approach ) .
The C172 has right of way , it 's lower . The rules are in <URL> and the only place where categories are mentioned is in 91.113 ( d ) , which is specifically about converging traffic at " approximately the same altitude " . For landing traffic , the lower aircraft has the right of way . People spend lots of time and energy discussing who has right of way on final , what " on final approach " really means , if it 's OK to <URL> a faster ( or slower ) aircraft , if an aircraft on a 5-mile final prevents other aircraft in the pattern from landing etc. . But the discussion often becomes a bit academic : practically speaking the point is to be safe , not create any problems , and not cause other aircraft to go around or maneuver to avoid you . Think of it like pulling out of a side street in your car : if another car is coming then you should n't cause him to brake hard or swerve to avoid you .
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
The direction of rotation of the propeller introduces an asymmetry which designers try to mitigate by adding more asymmetries . Specifically , a right-turning tractor propeller ( clockwise from the pilot 's viewpoint ) will swirl the propeller wake in the same direction which adds a negative sideslip angle on the vertical tail ( which sticks up into the upper half of the wake only ) . By pointing the axis of rotation of the propeller slightly to the right ( right sidethrust ) , this sideslip angle can be reduced . Other means of correction like an incidence on the vertical tail would not work equally well : Once the engine is throttled back , such an incidence would require to re-trim the aircraft . On multi-engined aircraft a sidethrust can help to reduce rudder input in engine-out cases . Here each wing engine points slightly away from the fuselage so its thrust will pull the aircraft into a helpful sideslip when the opposite engine has failed . The propeller axis can also point slightly down in order to move the thrust line closer to the center of gravity , reducing thrust-related trim changes , and to reduce the <URL> effect ( sideways <URL> ) at high angle of attack . This is called downthrust . One example would be the <URL> - engined version of the <URL> : When the new engine was installed , its lower thrust line required 2 ° more downthrust . This is one of the few topics where the English version of Wikipedia stays schtum ; only the German version has an article on it ( <URL> and <URL> ) .
end question
start question
How exactly does a pilot engage the autopilot ?
Turning on the autopilot is generally a single button or switch , but with a caveat . That big panel with the altitude selector , heading bug , nav options , etc programs the flight director , which is most likely enabled prior to even taking off and pre-programmed with your initial altitude leveloff , departure heading , etc. . While hand flying the pilot not flying who is operating the radios will update the flight director settings as your ATC instructions vary . This is generally updating altitude , heading and engaging nav . When it is time to let Otto fly , at that point it is just a single button to slave the autopilot to the flight director .
No , the PIC does not always sit in the left seat , and there 's no regulations about it . Most airplanes are configured so that the primary pilot would sit on the left , however there are military trainers ( the Slingsby Firefly comes to mind ) which have this on the right so that the pilot has the throttle on the left and stick on the right as single seat military jets have . Helicopters have the pilot on the right , not the left . In any case the PIC is not necessarily the handling pilot , instructors usually sit on the right and are often the pilot in command .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
This answer reflects rulemaking effective 1 April 2016 Regarding the question in the title , no , holding a medical does not mean you have a student pilot certificate . <URL> separate the student pilot certificate from the combination medical + student pilot certificate . Students will need to apply for a student pilot certificate with their CFI or with the FSDO ( or their part 141 flight school ) through IACRA . The new student pilot certificate is plastic just like a normal pilot certificate and do not expire . This part is true with or without the rulemaking changes Regarding the question in the body of your post , you are already a certificated pilot with a balloon rating . You are not a student pilot , you are a private pilot . The regulations you are subject to are to add an airplane category rating are in <URL> . § 61.63 Additional aircraft ratings ( other than for ratings at the airline transport pilot certification level ) . ( a ) General . For an additional aircraft rating on a pilot certificate , other than for an airline transport pilot certificate , a person must meet the requirements of this section appropriate to the additional aircraft rating sought . ( b ) Additional aircraft category rating . A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience . ( 2 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 3 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . As a balloon pilot seeking the airplane category rating with the single-engine land class you must meet the aeronautical experience requirements in 61.109 ( a ) must be endorsed and found competent in aeronautical knowledge of 61.105 ( b ) , 61.107 ( b ) ( 1 ) must complete a private pilot airplane written exam and then you will be able to take the practical examination and have airplane single-engine land added to your existing private pilot certificate .
The answer is in two parts . First , at higher speeds , control surfaces have more air moving over them and so they do n't have to angle as much to provide the same force necessary to move the jet as they do at slower speeds . In fact , a thin control surface like this canard will stall at lower angles of attack than a thicker profile would ( the thinner profile reduces drag which is why it 's used here ) , and a stalled surface ca n't do its job . Second , modern jets like the Rafale have fly-by-wire systems with flight limiters , to avoid the pilot overstressing the airframe at high speeds . The first video shows the Rafale in landing configuration , approaching a carrier at maybe 150kts . The second video shows high-G maneuvers at probably between 300 and 400kts . The forces at play on the canard are , in general , related to the square of the speed of the air moving past them , so if the system allowed the canards to present the same angle to a 300-knot flow as a 150-knot flow , all other things being equal the canard would be under 4 times the stress . At 450 knots that canard would be under 9 times the stress . Very quickly you would exceed the mechanical strength of that canard surface entirely , and then you would n't have a canard surface at all . So instead , the canards are moved at a shallower angle , with the difference in pitch rate , up to what the flight limiter will allow the entire aircraft to do , is made up using the elevons on the wings .
Climbing further while cruising is saving fuel , not wasting it . First , every airplane has an <URL> for most economical cruise . If it loses mass ( due to fuel consumed ) , it needs to adjust either its altitude or its speed to keep that angle of attack . The goal is to keep dynamic pressure , the product of air density and the square of airspeed , constant . Since you want to reach your destination in the shortest time , climbing into less dense air is the better option . Secondly , gas turbines need less fuel per unit of thrust when flying in colder air . As long as the plane stays in the <URL> , <URL> when it flies in colder air .
From <URL> : Airbus A320 Type Rating The Airbus A320 family of jet airliners consists of five aircraft : the A318 , A319 , A320 , A321 jet airliners and ACJ business jet . Only one type rating is required to fly these Airbus aircraft , as they have similar flight decks . To earn a type rating for these Airbus aircraft requires the completion of a technical course that lasts anywhere from 8 to 12 days depending on your pace . So the answer from a regulatory point would be no additional training . Some airlines might have policies that require a minimal check , probably in a sim .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
Pilot 's breath is not recorded on a flight data recorder , as it is not one of <URL> . However , if a pilot is breathing abnormally , the cockpit voice recorder may easily detect that as the breathing sound is captured by the CVR . A reference to this can be found in the <URL> for Germanwings flight 4U9525 , which states : ... the only sound to come from Lubitz is the sound of him breathing , picked up by the microphone on his headphone set . ... " We could hear human breathing inside the cabin , " said Mr Robin , " and this breathing noise we heard up until the moment of final impact . That means that the co-pilot was alive . Apparently he was breathing normally , so this is not someone having a heart attack , for example .
I will mention some considerations that were not mentioned above . First of all , it does make sense to buy a plane for training , and it can save you a lot of money on rent but you need to be aware of what you are doing . The positive side is that airplanes do not depreciate as fast as most assets of their kind ( it is not unheard of being able to sell an airplane for practically the same amount as you bought it several years ago ) . However , consider that : Usually an airplane you want to train in ( something sturdy and easy to control , like a C-150 ) is not an airplane you would like to fly most of the time ( traveling in a 150 is not a lot of fun , now a twin Comanche is a different story ... ) . Insurance costs for a student pilot ( even with various restrictions ) can nearly negate the advantage of not having to rent . So , if you would like to buy an airplane to mostly train ( and have some fun occasionally ) and then sell and buy a ' travel ' ( or aerobatic ) airplane , it can save you money . It is better to get your private first , however , so you can concentrate on initial training ( which is a handful ) without worrying about the ' pleasures ' of plane ownership .
Ground effect height is primarily a function of the airfoil , and the " ground " surface . Smooth desert lakebeds have " better " ground effect than forest tree tops . Calm water is better than open water for smoothness . As I recall , there have been several times where planes have operated in ground effect for substantial distances , such as military aircraft loosing engines at sea . So to the OP questions : The general rule is that 1/2 the wingspan is the practical limit of ground effect . My spin is that the surface of the ground , and the airfoil , vortex and downwash factor into that distance . Obstacles such as trees are not practically overcome by ground effect . Numerous documented instances have historically occurred where aircraft have extended operations over large bodies of water with engines out , or lower power settings , using ground effect . As fuel is burned off , sometimes the ceiling of the aircraft will increase notably .
From <URL> Sec . 121.542 Flight crewmember duties . ( a ) [ I omitted this , it 's about noncritical ( company ) procedures ] ( b ) No flight crewmember may engage in , nor may any pilot in command permit , any activity during a critical phase of flight which could distract any flight crewmember from the performance of his or her duties or which could interfere in any way with the proper conduct of those duties [ ... ] such as [ ... ] engaging in nonessential conversations within the cockpit [ ... ] ( c ) For the purposes of this section , critical phases of flight includes all ground operations involving taxi , takeoff and landing , and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet , except cruise flight . One could argue that waving could distract the pilot taxiing , so according to the letter of the law , yes , you would violate the rule . However , I think in the spirit of the rule it 's fine , since it just means that the pilot not taxiing is paying attention to the surroundings as well . Reading between the lines , it basically says ( a ) During critical phases of flight , all crew should focus on flying , not selling cooked cardboard ( b ) Also , do n't read the paper with a croissant while asking help with a crossword during said phases . ( c ) Critical phases of flight are when you 're likely to read the bumper sticker on another jet . I do n't think a quick wave is quite as severe a violation as e.g. reading the paper ( or , as the FAA calls it , reading publications not related to the proper conduct of the flight ) during take-off . Compare it with a bus driver waving to a fellow driver or one reading the paper while driving . But then , if you do park your plane in a ditch while trying to wave to your mom , do n't be surprised to be held fully liable .
A Fixed Base Operator ( FBO ) is an entity - usually a commercial company - which provides " aviation services " at an airport . One of the main services they provide is fueling , either full service or a self service pump . They do n't all provide both 100LL and JetA , but most do . Larger ones provide other services , such as catering , lavatory service , pre-flight briefing computers and wifi access , ground power units , and tie down or hangar space for parking . Charges vary from place to place , most large FBOs will charge a fee for aircraft parking , but sometimes waive a day or so of that if you purchase fuel . They can often assist in arranging ground transport or hotels as well . Most are open hours like 7AM - 8PM , but that varies as well . Most self-service pumps can be used 24 hours a day . Some have a " crew car " available to borrow for a short trip to get lunch or run an errand , though calling ahead to check on that is important .
Before we get started , I should mention that the most basic constant-speed propellers were driven by balancing air pressure and centrifugal force . The blades were shaped in such a way , or equipped with a counterweight that would cause the blade to intrinsically move to a shallow pitch . However , when air was moved over the blade , it would begin to overpower the counterweight and push the blade to a higher pitch . It 's a pretty ingenious design that meant that the prop would automatically be at a high RPM when the plane was moving slowly ( takeoff , landing , climbs ) , and would automatically move to a higher pitch when the plane sped up for cruise . There is even a single-bladed propeller that utilized this design very efficiently for light aircraft . The problem is that this type of propeller is not pilot-adjustable , and I am assuming you are wondering about adjustable props , so that 's what we 'll talk about from here on . In the first picture , observe that the pilot valve is resting directly on the flyweights ( separated by a bearing ) . The second picture better depicts the valve system . So we see that the speeder spring is pushing down on the top of the pilot valve 's shaft , which is in turn resting on the flyweights . First off , the flyweights are turned by the crankshaft , so any change in engine RPM is immediately reacted to . There are a few ways that the propeller is attached to the piston , and a rack and pinon type gear system is common and easy to imagine . The rack is fixed to the piston so that when it moves , the prop blade 's pinion gear is rotated and thus the blade is rotated . Another common type uses a peg that is offset from the center of the blade 's circular base . When the piston moves , it pushes or pulls on the peg and because the peg is offset it causes the blade to twist . Overspeed : When your airspeed increases . When the RPMs increase , the centrifugal force causes the flyweights to want to spread apart in order to conserve momentum . Because they 're in an L shape and have a hinge in the corner , this causes the lower part to rise up , pulling the pilot valve up and compressing the speeder spring . When the pilot valve is raised , pressurized oil from the pump is allowed to flow into the prop hub through a tube that passes through the center of the hub piston . The oil fills a cavity in front of the piston , pushing it backwards . The prop blade is rotated to a higher pitch ( closer to feather ) which slows the engine RPM . When the RPM is reduced , the flyweights will be under less centrifugal force , and the speeder spring will push them back to equilibrium ( on-speed ) , pushing the pilot valve back down to block the hub oil tube from gaining or losing oil . Underspeed : When your airspeed decreases . When the RPMs decrease , there is less centrifugal force acting on the flyweights . Due to their shape as described earlier , they are no longer able to push up on the speeder spring with the same force as before , so the compressed spring will begin to expand . This brings the top of the flyweights in , and their bottoms down . When their bottoms move down , the pilot valve moves down as well and unblocks the hub oil tube . Positive oil pressure in the hub and the blades ' built-in tendency to want to move to a low pitch pushes the oil out of the hub and back into the oil system . The piston moves forward and the blades rotate to a low-pitch condition . The flyweights do not necessarily return to equilibrium , especially if you manually set the spring to maximum compression with the prop lever : you want the prop to stay at minimum pitch no matter what . Loss of oil pressure : Oil pressure is constantly pushing against the bottom of the pilot valve , trying to force it upwards . The speeder spring is resisting , and while the flyweights are on-speed , the whole system is in equilibrium with the valve blocking the hub tube . When you lose oil pressure , that pressure is no longer holding the valve up and the speeder spring will win , pushing the valve down and allowing the oil to flow out of the hub . This resets the prop to the low-pitch climb setting , giving us maximum power because that 's more useful than maximum speed in the emergency situation that is probably about to occur . So why do we do this ? All propellers are set at a pitch . Theoretically , a propeller is pitched to move forward a certain distance each revolution , just like a screw moving through wood . But unlike wood , air is fluid and difficult to grip . If you imagine screwing a screw into a board , the only way to make it go in faster is to turn it faster . This is because the screw 's pitch is fixed . If you could space out the rungs on the screw ( increase the pitch ) the screw would move through the wood faster but it would become much harder to turn . An airplane 's propeller works much the same way . When we first take off , we need to impart maximum power into the air and it does n't matter if we do n't move forward very far for each revolution , because we 're not going very
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
I am going to assume that by " critical " , you mean survivable . I will also assume that the engine failure occurs at a height which will kill you . It 's not so much critical steps , it 's critical outcomes . The single most critical outcome is to preserve , or regain , rotor RPM . What steps are needed to do this will depend on what the aircraft is doing when the engine quits and , to a lesser extent , the type of the helicopter . I will generalise for an " average " helicopter in straight and level flight . The immediate action that is drilled into everyone from the very earliest hours as a student is to lower the collective . Doing this has three effects . It removes the positive pitch from the blades which removes most of the drag , it aligns the rotor thrust vector with the axis of rotor rotation therefore not using rotor energy for anything except lift and it causes a clutch to disengage the rotor from the engine allowing it to freewheel . From this point onwards , you are heading back towards earth . The second immediate action at the same time as lowering the collective ( assuming forward flight ) is to pull back on the cyclic to flare . This loads the disc which causes it to " cone " upwards which reduces the disc diameter . Therefore , the centre of gravity of the disc moves inwards and due to conservation of angular momentum , the rotor RPM increases . For quite complex reasons , the nose of the helicopter will also pitch down when the collective is lowered so pulling back counters that tendency . The third immediate action is to push in the pedal on the opposite side to the rotation of the blades . If the blades rotate counter clockwise ( to the left as the pilot sees it ) you push in right pedal to reduce the thrust which is produced by the tail rotor which is no longer countering the yaw caused by the drag from the powered rotor . This is less critical than the first two and although it can be dangerous and get you into an uncomfortable attitude , it is usually possible to recover from not pushing the pedal in immediately . If you 've got rotor RPM , then you can sort it out . Now you have successfully entered autorotation . From here , fly more or less normally to the next critical point which is about 50 ' off the ground . What you 've done is to ensure that the rotor has flying RPM and that you are managing energy by trading potential energy ( height ) for kinetic energy ( rotor RPM ) . The conversion is done by the airflow which now comes from under the disc and " drives " the rotor to maintain RPM . The pitch is neutral , or maybe even negative but , the relative airflow is now upwards through the disc and therefore , the blades have a positive angle of attack and generate some lift . This stops the helicopter from falling . There is some drag generated as a consequence of generating that lift , but it is easily overcome by the power which is now driving the rotor from that upward airflow . As long as you are descending , that conversion will happen and your RPM will be maintained . The controls are rigged such that with the collective fully down , RPM will remain in the normal range . Sometimes you have to tweak it a little with small amounts of collective , flares and turns but in general , you just fly towards your landing spot . The allowed RPM range is greater in autorotation . For example ( and from memory ) , the R22 has a range of 97-103 % in normal flight and 90-110 % in autorotation . You are now descending with a high rate of descent and usually , significant forward speed . You need to reduce both of those to get to a safe arrival . To do this , there are three more critical steps . Starting at about 50 feet ( depending on lots of factors but let 's stick with the average helicopter which entered autorotation from straight and level with significant altitude ) , you flare the aircraft by pulling back on the cyclic . This will immediately begin to slow the aircraft . It will also begin to increase RPM ( you are now converting speed into rotor kinetic energy ) . At the same time , you increase collective to reduce the rate of descent by increasing the lift generated . This will rapidly increase the drag , but now the energy needed to maintain the RPM is coming from the flare which is converting speed into RPM . You also need to put in pedal to stop the aircraft from yawing as the drag increases on the rotor . Providing you get the entry right and your flare reduces the speed and rate of descent to something survivable , then you will walk away . You might wreck the helicopter and break some bones , but arrive at 10 feet with only 20 knots and 150 feet per minute rate and you 'll get away with it . If you are well trained and in practice , then you will land safely and smoothly with no damage to machine or people . In summary , critical steps : Entry . Lever down , cyclic back , pedal in . Arrival . Cyclic back , lever up , pedal in .
It all depends on the autopilot , but generally no . If for example , you tell the autopilot to climb at 300 fpm , it will keep adjusting pitch to do just that . As you climb higher ( without changing the power ) the autopilot will keep increasing pitch to maintain the set vertical speed . Eventually the airplane will get too slow because of the increased pitch and can even stall . Some autopilots have pitch limits or monitor the stall inputs and automatically disconnect before it gets to this point , but others do n't . It is very important to know your autopilot and to monitor it at all times to make sure that it is doing what you want .
It is n't . The rudder is used . Yes , if there is asymmetry in thrust , the plane will yaw . And there is asymmetry in thrust . The engine thrust decreases slightly with wear and the engines are often worn out differently . There are effects like <URL> that shift the thrust axis depending on speed and attitude . And of course an engine may fail . So thrust asymmetry happens and needs to be compensated . And it is compensated by generating some sideways force with the rudder . Either by pilot pushing the pedal , or by applying trim . As @mins mentions , there are also effects that can cause asymmetry of drag , e.g. icing , and there are situations where the aircraft intentionally needs to fly somewhat sideways , e.g. cross-wind take-off and landing , so rudder is needed for many other things too . And when it 's there , it can compensate thrust asymmetry ( often , though , the engine failure dictates the minimum size of the vertical stabilizer and rudder ) . Note , that P-factor occurs in single-engine propeller aircraft too , so they also have some thrust asymmetry .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
end question
start question
Why does TCAS not issue turning commands as Resolution Advisory ?
TCAS gets fairly accurate altitude information from the same source as the transponder . Thus any extrapolation from this information can yield a fairly accurate prediction of whether two aircraft may collide , and provide more certainty that changes in altitude will avert any conflict . Range information is obtained by measuring the round trip time of the interrogation and response . This will also be fairly accurate . Direction information is obtained by using the TCAS antenna to detect the direction of responses from other aircraft . These values are then extrapolated to provide an expected path of other aircraft . Most airliners <URL> which only provides the vertical guidance . <URL> was envisioned to provide horizontal guidance as well , but : it was judged by the industry to be unfeasible due to limitations in the accuracy of the TCAS directional antennas . Even if TCAS can be accurate to <URL> in direction , this translates to over 300 feet of uncertainty at 1 nmi . TCAS IV was planned to use more accurate GPS information , but with ADS-B becoming more widely adopted , this development was stopped in favor of some future system that can use existing ADS-B technology . Another point is that airplanes are generally larger in the horizontal plane than the vertical , and thus would need to change course more horizontally to avoid collision than they would need to vertically . Especially as planes get larger , they also tend to be more maneuverable in pitch than in turns .
If you assume the main gear does not rotate ( in the left-right sense ) , then the pivot point will always be somewhere on a line joining the two main gears . You can then use trigonometry and the turn angle of the nose wheel to identify the centre of rotation . ( Assume the nose tyre does not slip sideways . ) ( By the way this is very similar to Ackermann steering used on cars - lots of standard mechanical texts talk about this . )
Farhan 's answer covered why the deck is angled in the first place . As far as why the landing area of the deck points left instead of right , this is for several reasons : Angling to port makes the most use of the deck area behind the catapults . Angling starboard would require the catapults to be shifted left off the centerline of the carrier ( yes , the carrier does have two additional catapults on the port side , but these ca n't be used while the carrier is retrieving aircraft , which is more often than you 'd think as the carrier maintains regular patrols ) . Angling the landing strip toward the " island " ( conning tower ) of the carrier just does n't sound like a good idea when you say it . That goes double when you realize the carrier is underway while you 're trying to land on it , and therefore you have to lead the landing strip a little . If you do n't , you 'll end up " behind " the ship and the landing strip . With the landing strip angled to port , a plane on a " lagging " approach ( lined up " behind " where the carrier 's going to be at touchdown ) will have a relatively clear path off to port for a wave-off . Angled to starboard , a plane that 's " lagging " the carrier would be pointed right at the tower . It would be possible to mirror the entire deck layout ; island to port , landing area angled starboard . The reason the island is on the starboard side is primarily convention ; all U.S. Navy aircraft carriers ever built have been either flush-decked or have had the island to the right . That 's thus a familiar sight picture for naval pilots across all eras , and easy to train to . A new carrier design does n't get the luxury of a whole new crew trained an entirely different way ; the Navy 's been training pilots since 1910 , they 've been landing planes on boats since 1927 , and they 'll do it they way they 've been doing it for 88 years , thank you very much . The Imperial Japanese Navy commissioned two carriers , Akagi and Hiryu , with island-left designs , fielded with the idea that the island-left carrier would sail in formation with an island-right carrier in the same flag group , with opposing traffic patterns that did n't conflict . This procedure never materialized in practice ; most carrier groups in both Japanese and U.S. fleets ended up with a single carrier due to their high cost and lower total number , a pattern that continues today , and even when two ( or more ) carriers were close enough to be called part of the same naval group , they typically maintained a wide enough spacing to permit a left-hand pattern for both ships .
Because each jet engine only has one lever ; each piston engine has three . Jet engine 's throttle is pretty straight forward - move forward , more power . The computer automatically manages fuel flow to prevent surge , flameout and N1 overshoot . On a piston engine you have three - a mixture lever , a propeller lever and a throttle lever . Granted , I do n't think auto-mixture would be too hard to implement . Now , do I want a high-speed climb or high-power climb ? And remember , the prop and throttle must be managed together . You can not go beyond a certain power range with the props set for low rpm , otherwise you 'll damage the engine . It 's like a car 's automatic transmission , except it has one more dimension . Power affects pitch When you change power you must change the aircraft 's pitch altogether . Autopilots on modern airlines have quite a number of vertical modes : ALT , V/S , G/S , VNAV , FLCH , TO/GA , CLB etc. . None of those have the concept of gear ratio , which is required for propeller management . Can you design an autopilot system such that it functions on propeller engines ? Absolutely . But it is going to be complicated . Not only the usual operations , but the failure modes , have to be engineered and learnt by the pilots . How do you deal with an auto-mixture failure ? RPM mismatch ? Such training would add unnecessary cost to an otherwise simple aircraft operation . If your airplane does not have a variable pitch propeller , it is probably too simplistic for this kind of autopilot anyway . Jets have another property which makes auto throttle a logical choice - the faster you fly , the more powerful the engines . Thus , on a jet , you would have to make continuous throttle adjustment if you change your airspeed . So an auto throttle would be helpful . Pistons do not behave like that . Turboprops One of the main reasons for choosing piston aircraft is - it is simple . It just fly . No fancy stuff . No lengthy preflight checks . No computers . I just want to get flying . This thinking also extends to turboprops . It 's worthy to note that the ATR does not have auto throttle as well . The ATR 42 has power management ( but not speed management ) , where activating it will simply move a bug on the torque gauge ; the pilots have to manually move the levers to follow it . The ATR 72 has a notch for the pilots to place the throttle levers , but still , no motor to move the levers automatically . I ca n't think of any reason behind this design philosophy besides simplicity and cost .
The static margin is the distance between the center of gravity and the neutral point . By itself , this is a dimensional value . This makes it hard to compare between aircraft , so it makes sense to divide it by some other length . That the mean aerodynamic chord has been chosen has several reasons : The MAC is the reference length for all parameters of longitudinal motion . The wing 's pitching moment scales with the MAC . The wing 's pitch damping changes with the square of the MAC . The biggest contribution to pitch damping , however , is the lever arm of the horizontal tail . Normally , the tail lever arm is also chosen as a multiple of MAC . A higher wing chord means more tail force is needed in order to set the correct angle of attack . If you compare different airplanes , you will notice that the relative size of the horizontal tail goes down with a higher wing aspect ratio . While GA airplanes have horizontal tails sized to between 20 % and 25 % of their wing surface , gliders have horizontal tails of around 10 % to 15 % . It must be said , however , that gliders need less flexibility in their cg location , which is another reason for reducing horizontal tail size . If all linear dimensions are referenced to MAC and all areas referenced to the wing area , calculations become easier and similarities between different aircraft become obvious . For lateral motion parameters the usual reference length is the semispan or the span of the wing .
In the past when airport owners want to control traffic flow , they file a NOTAM that the airport is closed , and contact xxx at 123456789 for exceptions . Then for the takeoff , the airport manager would issue a verbal " the airport is open for N1234 to depart " and then close the airport . This could be done on the unicom , in person , via telephone or however one wanted to . This happens at some private and corporate strips . It is actually more common in the northern parts of Canada , where there are fields operated by mining companies . In those cases , authorized aircraft come and go , and the field appears as a restricted use field . ( Often they are not even charted , even though they may have VOR-DME on the field . ) So in summary , you have at least two paths to take : 1 . NOTAM the field closed , or 2 . Restrict the use ps : If you really want to play controller , you could install a private tower ( NFCT ) , but then there are a bunch of rules to follow , and I believe your tower controllers would essentially have to be FAA trained . But I am not up on those regs , and they may have changed since I was more fresh on them . Here is a sample NFCT set up for an event : <URL> Amendment on NFCT : Specifically , the FAA permits non-federal control towers , NFCT , whereby an agency or entity that wishes a towered airport which does not meet federal criteria , or is otherwise unable to get a Federal Control Tower ( FCT ) , may operate a control tower . Technically , this satisfies the OP criteria for issuing " clearances " but perhaps with a little more red tape than he might be interested in . <URL> AC 90-93B states in part : There are no comprehensive set of federal rules governing the operation of NFCTs . The Advisory Circular goes on to make recommendations for procedures , policy , training and equipment . In summary , if you want to install a tower at your private field , you can do so . Good luck getting insurance . Make sure you follow FCC Part 87 for your radio licenses . Spend some time working with your center , and regional approach facilities .
There are lots of problems . Sight is just generally important when flying . Even in airliners , most approaches are still flown manually and often visually . Any significant degradation of sight is going to be a problem when flying any type of airplane . Red/Green/White <URL> are used by air traffic control in the event of a radio failure . The inability to differentiate red from green in this case would be an enormous safety hazard ( e.g. did tower just clear me to land or tell me to keep circling ? ) <URL> / <URL> lights use colors to indicate whether you 're above , below , or on the proper glide slope for a runway . While it 's possible to land without them , it 's a significant reduction in safety . Lights at airports are color-coded to indicate whether a particular road is a runway or taxiway , how close you are to the end of the runway , that a runway is in use , etc. . Landing on a taxiway is usually a bad idea , so it 's best if you can tell the difference . The navigation lights on airplanes themselves are color-coded . The right wingtip has a green light , the left wingtip has a red light , and the back has a white light . This lets other pilots easily determine which way you 're going and , in case of conflict , who should yield ( seeing a red light on another aircraft means that they 're to your right and , therefore , you should yield to [ i.e. divert around ] them . ) Colors are used on aviation charts to indicate all kinds of things , including class of airspace , type of special-use airspace , whether a field is controlled or not , type of route , elevation of terrain , where you should expect to see city lights at night , etc. . You need to be able to distinguish these things quickly and accurately , even in low-light conditions . Some cockpit instruments use colors to indicate various things . These include color bands on airspeed indicators , color of annunciator lights or their on-screen equivalents ( i.e. red for warning , amber for caution , green for gear down , etc. , ) echo intensity on a weather radar display , etc. .
Flutter happens when structural and aerodynamic <URL> converge . Aerodynamic eigenfrequencies depend on the time the air molecules take to transverse an aerodynamic surface .
It does n't appear to be a patent thing . The main work on the chevron ( shaped nozzles ) was done by NASA . Every design decision in an aircraft is a compromise and this was no different . The addition of chevrons for noise suppression leads to a ( small ) increase in specific fuel consumption and Airbus considered it not worth it . Flightglobal quotes <URL> as saying : We did n't get a noise advantage from chevrons , and there is a specific fuel consumption penalty , so we 've not adopted them . Airbus seems to have gone in the insulation and high bypass route for reducing noise . From the same article : Goodrich is to build the engine nacelle for the A350 's GEnx engine , with Airbus supplying the composite inlet , which incorporates a " zero splice " acoustic inner barrel to provide a new level of fan-noise reduction . As an example of the acoustic treatment of nacelle in A320 family , <URL> : The thrust reverser structure was acoustically treated along approximately half of its internal surface . It was clear that increasing this acoustic area would increase the acoustic sound absorption and hence decrease the overall measurable exhaust noise . The inner fixed structure was redesigned with increased acoustic area . In addition , the support struts and several fairings were also modified to include acoustic treatment . The result was an increase in the acoustic area of the thrust reverser by approximately 2 square meters ( 21.5 sq ft ) . Airbus does use chevrons in some of the aircraft , like A321 along with nacelle acoustic improvements ; however , the chevrons are available only in the inner ( core ) nozzle . The package is available as standard for CFM powered A321 aircraft and options are available for A320 . The image below shows a A321 with chevron nozzles . <URL> Image from <URL> According to <URL> : The noise reduction package is currently offered as the basic standard on all CFM powered Airbus A321 aircraft . It is also optional on all the other A320 Family aircraft .
Qualification : I worked at a sport parachute center as an instructor for 10 years and I hold an FAA Master Parachute Rigger certificate . I believe that qualifies me as an expert on the subject . The majority of the above other statements here are correct . In summary : The door of a pressurized passenger plane can not be opened in flight for the stated reasons . the door of most larger passenger planes can not be opened in flight after you depressurize the cabin because they swing forward . Push a sheet of plywood against a thunderstorm-grade wind and see how well you do . Now multiply the wind speed by 5 . even if you blow the door out with explosives , the chances of an orderly exit are slim . At airliner speeds an orderly exit is critical if you expect to survive the jump . Street clothes will be torn to shreds . Oh , and it 's COLD up there . you can not depressurize an aircraft over 12,000 feet altitude without the passengers passing out rather quickly . If you can control the plane down to this altitude , you do n't need the parachutes . it is extremely difficult to exit an unstable aircraft that is built for sport parachuting ( in-flight door , suitable handles , door already open ) . If the plane is spinning and you are beside the door you might get tossed out and then struck by other parts of the airframe . If it 's a larger plane and the door ( or you ) are away from the current axis of rotation , good luck . Yes , jumpers have successfully exited a crippled jump plane . None of them want to try it again . modern sport parachutes use steerable ram-air canopies . Jump one of these without any training and you will hurt yourself landing . Most emergency parachutes are round . Jump one of those without any training and you will break something when you land . 200 untrained people jumping ram-air canopies all at once will result in a number of collisions and entanglements , which are typically fatal for all involved . exiting an airplane below 1000 feet is really not practical . I would do it IF a ) the plane is currently under control ; b ) landing is not practical ; c ) It 's really 1000 feet , not less ; d ) I 'm sitting beside the door . Possible scenario is the engine goes boom and I know there 's nothing but rocky land ahead of us . Of course my gear is already on my back ready to go , and I know how to use it . There have been many cases of a jump plane experiencing engine problems on the way up . By the time the pilot turns around , the cabin is usually empty . There have also been cases where jump planes have crashed on takeoff . None of the ( very experienced ) jumpers on board thought about anything other than tightening the seatbelt . Points I disagree with : ( although they do not change the outcome ) Emergency parachutes ( seat-pack types ) are available for far less than sport rigs . Maybe $ 1,500 each . Weight around 8-10kg . Putting a purpose-built one on would be not much more complicated than a 4-point harness . This was seriously considered back in the 1950 's - aircraft seats were designed with parachutes built in . Planes were neither pressurized nor fast back then . Think DC-3 era - the DC-3 makes a great jump plane , I have used one a few times . maintenance costs would be no more than the escape slides , flotation gear or other similar equipment .
There 's virtually no chance of the pilot deliberately switching off all 4 engines , and even less chance of all 4 engines failing at the same time . It 's not entirely impossible for it to happen , but it definitely would n't be quietly ignored within the aviation community . I promise you that you would 've heard about it afterwards . That said , the A380 's engines are modern , quiet , and actually mounted quite a long way out on the wings , this makes them fairly quiet when idling , even when compared to other aircraft . This is particularly noticeable after a long flight where they 've been running at fairly high power for 8 or more hours , and is even more the case if you 're not used to the A380 , eg if you usually fly on common twins such as the A320 , 737 , 777 which are much louder within the cabin . I suspect , but ca n't be sure , that the engines were simply pulled back to idle ( minimum power/thrust ) and it sounded much quieter than you expected . But no , the engines were almost certainly not simply turned off , that just does n't happen . The only thing I can think of that would cause that would be a flame-out , and you 'd definitely notice that !
If you are emitting RF , you can be seen . There are two ways to emit RF : 1 . Transmit ( or leak ) a RF signal , and 2 . Reflect a RF signal . A jamming device emits ( usually ) high amounts of RF , with the general idea that the receiver of someone 's radar unit will be desensed or otherwise overwhelmed by the signal . Like putting a multicolored sun into a small dark room . So with multiple receivers ( as in multi-static radar ) a jamming aircraft can normally be rather precisely located ( assuming omnidirectional uniformity of the jamming signal ) . When noise jamming , your aircraft may not broadcast on , near or on harmonics of a given frequency within a temporal frame of when you are emitting on that frequency , so your receiver has the opportunity to detect returns . More importantly , your noise emitter may drop power and your radar receiver may have cans ( well , cavities ) tuned to protect the sensitivity of your radar receiver when expecting a return signal . There are many books on radar technology , but I believe EW102 covers radar , deceptions , noise jammers and other techniques in a manner that most mildly technical people can read and understand . There are other books , but I use that series in an Electronic Warfare course I teach , and they are reasonably current . The open literature is rich with advances in jamming and other stealth methodologies that have advanced tremendously in the last 50 years .
Short answer : Yes . But only for a moment . As you suggest , let 's focus on the 90 ° case , because many things will become simpler . Intermediate climb angles can be covered by a linear superposition of horizontal and vertical flight . Now we shoot up at 90 ° flight path angle ( engine thrust permitting ) and leave some angle of attack for the wing to create lift . Lift acts orthogonally to the local flow direction , so the lift will pull the aircraft sideways ( up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . Since there is no other force which will oppose this lift ( drag , weight and thrust all act at 90 ° to the lift , parallel to the flight path ) , the aircraft will accelerate sideways ( again , up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . The angle of attack will immediately decrease and lift creation will stop -- or the pilot forces the angle of attack to stay constant by pulling the elevator , and now the aircraft will further increase its flight path angle . That is a complicated way of saying that the pilot forces the airplane into a loop . If he wants to maintain this 90 ° flight path angle , he better avoid creating any lift .
I suspect that you 're thinking of <URL> that took effect from June 30th , 2010 . Before the change , a taxi clearance could indeed allow you to cross multiple runways , but now you can only be cleared to cross one runway at a time : This change establishes the requirement that an explicit runway crossing clearance be issued for each runway ( active/inactive or closed ) crossing and requires an aircraft/vehicle to have crossed the previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . At airports where the taxi route between runway centerlines is less than 1,000 feet apart , multiple runway crossings may be issued after receiving approval by the Terminal Services Director of Operations . It was a big change at the time ( according to what I 've read ) and it was widely publicized by the FAA and other organizations . The relevant ATC instructions are in the <URL> 3-7-2 : Aircraft/vehicles must receive a clearance for each runway their route crosses . An aircraft/vehicle must have crossed a previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . The orders have several examples and the corresponding phraseology .
I 've heard about lots of bird strike incidents that occured during a takeoff roll or the early phase of takeoff climb but hardly heard of bird strikes on approach or landing . This is always a dangerous thing . Only because you hear more bird strikes that occur on takeoff , it does not mean there are more at takeoff . I found , for example , <URL> about bird strikes from the year 2000 . It says : [ ... ] 38 % of the bird strikes occurred during take-off and climb , and 56 % during approach [ ... ] That means there are more bird strikes during approach than on takeoff . I assume things have n't changed a lot since then . This question is even answered in the <URL> : Q : Do most bird strikes occur while in flight , at takeoff , or landing ? A : About 60 % of bird strikes with civil aircraft occur during landing phases of flight ( descent , approach and landing roll ) ; 37 % occur during take-off run and climb ; and the remainder occur during the en-route phase . A more specific statistic : <URL> <URL> Possible reason for subjective perception of bird-strikes happening more often during departure I thought a little about it and came to following possible reason : After a bird-strike on final , the pilots will continue landing . It would be unwise not to land immediately . For the passengers it will look like a normal landing . If the bird damages the engine , there is only a small change of sound , because the engines are running very low . However , when a bird-strike occurs while taking off , there is immediate action taken by the pilots . And because the engines are at or near full thrust , the sound of a dying engine can be perceived by the passengers . Last but not least , a departing aircraft has a much higher speed than a landing one , which means more damage . So , for newspapers , a bird-strike at take-off is more <URL> . More damage to the plane than a bird-strike on final Passengers not reaching their destination Dramatic passenger interviews about their " near-death-experience " A newspaper is not interested in a bird-strike on final , where everything went fine and no passenger noticed anything . To support my theorem , I googled " bird strike " and clicked on the " News " - tab . I looked through every article that had to do something with an bird-strike incident . 5 out of 6 articles were about a bird-strike on take-off . That 's over 80 % .
Titanium is unsuitable because it will react with oxygen and carbon at high temperature , well below its melting point , making it very hard and brittle . Welding titanium is very complicated because it needs to be shielded extremely well from any oxygen when hot . Ti $ _ 3 $ O will form above 500 ° C , and Ti $ _ 2 $ O above 600 ° C. Initially turbine blades were made of steel alloys , but they have been displaced by <URL> . Also , they operate in an environment which requires constant <URL> , so they can be 200 - 300 ° C cooler than the turbine entry temperature of the gas coming from the combustor ( s ) . Modern turbine blades are hollow and have a perforation at their leading edge . Pressurized , relatively cool air is forced through the blades and the perforation and flows around the blade 's surface , creating a cool sheet of air to shield the blade from the hot gas . Also , before entering the turbine the gas is accelerated , which already lowers its temperature . See the plot below of parameters inside an older engine taken from <URL> source . Shortly past the fuel injectors the maximum gas temperature of approx . 1800 ° C is reached , which drops to 1100 ° C at the entry to the first turbine stage . Note that this temperature has been raised to 1500 ° C in modern military engines ! At the same time , the highest temperature is connected with the lowest speed ( 30 m/s ) , and the flow accelerates to 200 m/s directly before entering the first turbine stage . Titanium in contact with oxygen would lose a lot of its strength at these temperatures , even though its melting point is at 1650 ° C.
The one that decided to ground the fleet was Qantas . Qantas was having a new airplane model and potentially made a trade-off between having a not known design flaw and keep flying and the risk . At that time the A380 entered in service three years before and around 20 aircraft were in service with a mix of engines . Today , there are 200 A/C in service for 10 years . The possibility of having a design flaw or an unknown problem is really low . It was not a airworthiness directive as the directive was created <URL> in January 2011 . Qantas starting to get back in service the airplanes on 27th November ( incident was on 4th Novemeber )
The National Weather Service 's 148 WSR-88D Doppler radars can detect most precipitation within approximately 90 mi of the radar , and intense rain or snow within approximately 155 mi . However , light rain , light snow , or drizzle from shallow cloud weather systems are not necessarily detected . -- <URL> As Ron Beyer <URL> , the METAR shows light drizzle .
There is plenty of information on the Internet on how <URL> , however the codes are sometimes not directly assigned by ICAO , <URL> . ICAO Document 7910 - Location Identifiers contains codes allocated by national governments , on behalf of ICAO , to airports , airfields and other facilities such as ATC and weather stations . Ultimately , it is the national CAA 's or other authorities ' decision whether to assign a code and get it validated through ICAO . The decision may be based on political , historical or other reasons , there is no minimum requirements for airports to receive an ICAO code . Am I correct in assuming that airports without ICAO codes do n't have codes because of the lack of a control tower ? Or is there other reasons for this ? The availability of a control tower is not a requirement for ICAO codes , even small uncontrolled fields with grass strips can have an ICAO code , example : <URL> <URL>
No . See FAR 61.195 ( b ) : Aircraft Ratings . A flight instructor may not conduct flight training in any aircraft for which the flight instructor does not hold : ( 1 ) A pilot certificate and flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating ... Without an Airplane - Single Engine rating on the flight instructor certificate , an instructor may not conduct flight training in a single-engine airplane . As an aside , a CFI/I/MEI needs only a third class medical . See FAR 61.23 ( a ) ( 3 ) ( iv ) : ( 3 ) [ A person ] must hold at least a third-class medical certificate -- ... ( iv ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate and acting as the pilot in command ; ( v ) When exercising the privileges of a flight certificate and serving as a required pilot flight crewmember In addition , note that these requirements are for an instructor also acting as a PIC or required pilot . When the student is the only required crewmember for a given flight , the instructor is not required to hold a medical certificate at all .
end question
start question
What is the angle between A330 body and the ground ?
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
Based upon the terminology I have heard over the years , a compass swing is the alignment of the compass , normally using a compass rose painted on a surface . The compass is adjusted and a deviation card is created for cardinal points on the compass . A check swing , as I have heard it referred to , is the checking of the compass , and done with the aircraft running , and electrical loads on , similar to a compass swing , but without the adjustment . The deviation card is verified , but there is no intent of adjusting anything . This was typically done before we ferried aircraft over the ocean , where there would be extended dead-reckoning ( before GPS and LORAN ) , and where flights were close to the polar regions , and compass operation needed to be verified prior to the flight . Not that a compass is worth much near the poles ( grin ) . My guess is that check swing is merely a slang term , whereas compass swing is well understood and extensively documented .
An amended clearance usually indicates something has been added to it , but the original content remains the same . Revised usually means the clearance has had modifications to the original content , including possible additions and deletions .
the communication between the cockpit and the controllers is done by using Arinc protocols . And the data transmitted by probes to the controllers is done by CAN . That depends very much on the aircraft type . And when can we use each one of them ( Arinc and CAN ) When you design your own aircraft you get to choose . CAN stands for <URL> . CAN is a bus standard designed to allow microcontrollers and devices to communicate with each other in applications without a host computer . It has its origins in the automotive industry . ARINC stands for <URL> , Incorporated . ARINC is an organisation that amongst other activities produces technical standards for avionics and provides services to aircraft operators . Amongst the ARINC standards there are a number addressing data communications between avionics components . Most widely used is the <URL> standard which describes an avionics data bus . ARINC 429 allows a single transmitter to communicate data to up to 20 receivers over a single bus . Comparing CAN bus to ARINC 429 : Cable CAN : STP or UPT , possible to implement on fiberoptic cable ARINC 429 : STP Speed CAN : 1 Mbit/s ( high speed ) / 125 Kbit/s ( low speed ) ARINC 429 100Kbit/s ( high speed ) / 10-14 Kbit/s ( low speed ) Directionality CAN : bi-directional , connected units can send and receive on the same cable . ARINC 429 : uni-directional , a unit either transmits or receives from a cable . Number of units on a single bus CAN : unlimited , although in practice no more than about 32 units will be sharing a bus to avoid data collisions . ARINC 429 : one transmitter can serve at most 20 receiving units on a single cable . Since ARINC 429 has only a single transmitter , timely data arrival is guaranteed , while CAN has to incorporate transmission collision detection &amp; correction which incurs non deterministic time overhead . On the other hand , ARINC 429 only uses a parity bit for bit level error detection whilst CAN allows for various methods including CRC checks Some of this data is obtained from an article on CAN bus in <URL> . Newer ARINC busses like 629 or <URL> allow for higher speeds and bi-directional communication . These may eventually replace ARINC 429 ( but never underestimate how slow progress in aviation is )
Flaps are at the back of the wing , slats are at the front . Easy ! :) If you want it more technical : They both help to generate more lift . See these diagrams with angle of attack and lift coefficient : <URL> <URL> As the lift coefficient is inversely proportional to the minimum airspeed , a higher CL will allow a lower Vmin .
You 're right -- the boundary layer is related to lift production since , in a subsonic example , " guides " the air relative to the airfoil shape and enables the necessary flow accelerations that create the pressure differential and downwash . However , a thick boundary layer is not necessarily a good deal , especially on an airplane wing . I think that <URL> makes a good reference here . The thicker than a boundary layer is , the greater the velocity and pressure gradient across it . Therefore , the chance of flow separation ( think of stall , when flow is no longer following the airfoil contour and is creating a ton of drag and not much lift ) is also higher . This consideration is further outlined <URL> ( a major technical university in the Netherlands ) . If the boundary layer is allowed to grow and is allowed to remain laminar , separation occurs relatively early , leading to dramatically increased drag and a similar reduction in lift . Artificial " tripping " ( i.e. , the introduction of turbulence ) of the boundary layer prior to laminar separation re-energizes the boundary layer and allows it to remain attached for longer . It can also decrease your drag by some amount , but that 's another story unto itself . This ( or some more active sort of boundary layer control ) is what I 'm guessing you 're referring to when you talk about keeping the boundary layer thin . It is , with the exception of circulation control and insofar as I 'm familiar with it , related to energizing the boundary layer to delay flow separation as long as possible .
Normally the relation is <URL> used in flight . However , the Mach number and the Reynolds number will cause shifts . For the Mach effect , use the Prandtl-Glauert rule in subsonic flow up to Mach 0.7 : $ $ ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { Mach } = ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { incompressible } \ cdot \ sqrt { 1-Mach ^ 2 } $ $ A higher <URL> means a relatively thinner boundary layer , and since the boundary layer on the suction side of the airfoil grows in thickness with increasing angle of attack , the same airfoil will have less boundary layer growth at a higher Reynolds number . This translates into a higher effective angle of attack at the same geometrical angle , so the lift curve slope becomes steeper and will reach stall at a higher angle . There are no standard conditions , but a proper lift curve graph should note both the Mach and Reynolds number for which it is valid .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
Lycoming engines have the camshaft above the crankshaft , and Continental engines have the cam below the crankshaft . This seems to keep the Conti cams better oiled and therefore less susceptible to corrosion .
Your friend is right . Elevator trim is n't setting a pitch , it is compensating for control forces on the elevator , which vary with speed . If you are trimmed for level flight at 100 kias and reduce power the plane will initially slow . As it slows the trim will cause a nose-down moment causing the plane to pitch down . Given no input , the plane will equilibrate at whatever nose-down pitch is needed to regain the forces it was trimmed for , which means speeding back up to 100 kias . You are correct that to maintain 100 kias with reduced power the nose should be lowered , but the trim will take care of that for you . You might have a misconception about how trim works , based on your argument . A typical trim setup in light airplanes is essentially another control surface on the elevator : <URL> The elevator is the large control surface and that smaller control surface is the elevator trim . When you adjust the pitch trim you are adjusting this trim tab which provides a force on the elevator that counters aerodynamic forces . This is why the airplane responds in pitch to maintain constant aerodynamic forces ( e.g. constant indicated airspeed ) for a given trim setting . You can test this in the airplane easily . Take your plane up to the altitude you practice maneuvers at , set 75 % power ( or some other number ) and trim for straight and level . Add power and watch the plane climb , decrease power and watch it descent , both without touching the trim . Go back to straight and level and trimmed and accelerate without climbing -- note you are having to retrim as your speed increases . Decelerate without descending -- note you are retrimming as your speed decreases .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
Reversible is when there is a direct linkage from controls to control surfaces . For example the cable linkages in a light aircraft up to an MD-80 . Irreversible is when there is a hydraulic power control unit in the way , it can be mechanical or fly-by-wire . And such controls would sometimes need an artificial feel system to relay how much force is being applied . It is found in airplanes that can not be steered by just muscles . A good way to picture it , is what happens if you move an aileron by hand , would the yoke turn as a result or no . Superman might be needed for a 747 's rudder , but still , the rudder pedals wo n't budge . More information <URL> and <URL> . <URL> Source : <URL> Photo shows an unpowered rudder that was swung by the wind , in the cockpit the rudder pedals would show the neutral position , hence irreversible .
45 degrees . 8.9.3.6 Aircraft vectored for final approach should be given a heading or a series of headings calculated to close with the final approach track . The final vector shall enable the aircraft to be established in level flight on the final approach track prior to intercepting the specified or nominal glide path if an MLS , ILS or radar approach is to be made , and should provide an intercept angle with the final approach track of 45 degrees or less . ICAO Doc 4444 ( PANS-ATM ) That said , we very often use a 30 degree intercept angle , even if we are allowed to go up to 45 degrees .
A shortcut is a deviation from the filed flightplan given to an aircraft by ATC during the flight , if traffic and other factors permit . A flight crew can not expect to get any shortcuts , so they can not plan for it . Routes in the RAD are flightplannable routes . If a direct route is available in the RAD , it can be used when filing the flightplan , prior to the flight . This allows airlines to plan for the shorter route , thus allowing them to bring less fuel and advertise a shorter flight time .
end question
start question
In what conditions is the APU used in midair ?
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
It 's been several years since I worked at United 's flight training center , but if my memory serves me , it is there in case the system is receiving input that the pilot wants to exclude . As was explained to me , an example of this would be the other pilot becoming incapacitated , with their body leaning against the sidestick . In this case , one would want to use the Priority Takeover button to eliminate the other pilot 's input . In Captain Sullenberger 's case , it is likely that he wanted to ensure that First Officer Skiles was n't providing any control inputs that would work against his control inputs . Now , it is also my understanding that such functionality is not useful in a " hostile takeover " event , since the other pilot can also attempt a priority takeover ( or use physical force , due to the close proximity of the two pilots ) .
Here 's a list of official FAA weather information sources that pilots can analyze to avoid or mitigate icing risks : AIRMET Zulu An AIRMET Zulu will be issued for areas where icing conditions are forecast to be light or moderate . SIGMET A SIGMET will be issued for icing conditions forecast to be severe . PIREPs PIREPs are the best source of icing information . Unlike weather information sources which are forecasts , PIREPs are reports from pilots flying in the actual conditions and should be considered the most accurate source of icing information . Here 's an example of a PIREP where a pilot of a TBM-700 was descending into Atlanta . He reported a cloud layer topping at 7900 feet down to 500 feet AGL and picking up light rime ice between 7900 and 5000 feet . Significant Weather Prognostic Charts The top two panes of a prog chart help pilots visualize the freezing level . A zig zag line shows when freezing level is at the surface and height contours for the highest freezing level are drawn at 4000 foot intervals with dashed lines . This information gives pilots a forecast of temperatures which when combined with known precipitation can predict ice and help to avoid it . Area Forecast ( FA ) An FA is an additional source of information about where cloud tops and bottoms are . If you know that along with the freezing level you can get a better idea of where icing conditions are most likely .
I do n't think that the article suggests " pilots are using ILS for landing only in bad whether conditions " . it simply says that under foggy ( i.e. in bad weather ) , ILS is used as visual approach is not possible . The use of ILS is at the discretion of pilots with ATC permission . The ILS localiser and glideslope can still be used as a reference during the visual approach ( even if the landing is not ILS ) . The decision is the pilots ' as the visual indicators and glideslope may not match . While it is true that ILS is much more precise and safer , you are forgetting the human factor - the pilot may want to ' fly ' the aircraft rather than letting the computer do it .
<URL> ( <URL> via aircraft.wikia.com ) APU is number 134 on the cutaway , which you can find near root of left stabilator leading edge . It is ahead of the engine , below the intake duct , on the left side . <URL> By Reedy ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> Its exhaust is on the right side close to the stabilator 's leading edge .
If the ailerons could be moved in the same way on both wings , the linkage between both is broken and they would float up near their maximum negative ( trailing edge up ) deflection angle . Even a hydraulic aileron booster would not help , since here still an interlink between both ailerons exists to keep actuation forces down . Only in a fly-by-wire aircraft with fully powered aileron actuators could the control system be programmed to allow symmetric deflection . The effectivity of such a means of pitch control is very low , and only wing sweep can help to make it useable . Any pitch control input will change lift on the outer wing , and pitching up would mean a loss of lift and result in a plunging motion of the aircraft . If that happens on landing , when the pilot uses to pull the stick to raise the nose gradually , the resulting ground contact will be rather early and bumpy . Pilots of flying wings know this ; they are very careful with their pitch control during a flare . When an <URL> had crashed a couple of years ago because the pilot had forgotten to connect the elevator linkage , <URL> flew to the glider club and demonstrated how to fly the ASW-20 with flaps for pitch control alone . The downside is a much reduced speed range and a high landing speed , because you need to reduce camber in order to pitch up , but it works . Since the flap span is higher than the aileron span , I would strongly recommend to rely on the flaps for pitch control when your elevator stops working if flaps are installed . They also do not need any modification to work as pitch controls since they are rigged to move symmetrically . If the engines are mounted low or high , <URL> . This was used on several occasions to bring an airliner down <URL> . EDIT : Mike Dunlavey insists I should mention flaperons . He is right , they are possible with mechanical linkage only , but you will find them only on wings which have flaps anyway . All modern gliders with flaps will also move the ailerons in sync with the flaps . But they are the worst choice for pitch control . For one , they are on the part of the wing with the smallest chord . Their lift change will go with the smallest pitch moment change of all controls except the rudder , so it would be much better to use the flaps for pitch control . That the ailerons do move with the flaps will have little effect . Besides , well designed flaperons will have less deflection change for a given flap change so the spanwise lift distribution will stay close to the optimum . This will make them even less effective than the flaps . I choose not to mention them to make the answer concise . But I 'm afraid short answers are not appreciated anymore .
Yes , this is the system used on the Boeing 737 . As the document mentions , it is similar to the system design on the Boeing 757 and 767 models .
Seal means <URL> . Bearings are actually located in sumps ( cárter ) . This picture is taken from this <URL> . You can see the two sumps : <URL> ( <URL> ) Sumps are watertight and there are seals between the shaft and the sump , or between the shaft and the bearing to contain oil ( lubricant ) inside . This is a simple oil seal : <URL> ( <URL> ) A more complex seal looks like this one : <URL> ( <URL> ) Turbo engines oil seals are specially selected to bear the high rotation speed of the shafts ( wear ) , and the high operating temperature of the engine core ( adjustment and bending ) . Carbon seals are commonly used . See on Youtube : <URL> .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
Towing is quite feasible , and even landing while in tow is possible - I 've done it myself in gliders . The hard part is catching up with the stricken plane . To stay with Keegan 's Boeing 777 : It most likely will travel at Mach 0.8 and somewhere between 30.000 and 39.000 ft when disaster strikes . Let 's further assume that power fails instantly , so the aircraft , traveling at 240 m/s , will develop a sink rate of 15 m/s just to continue flying . When it sinks , the increasing density allows it to slow down , so at sea level it will fly at 130 m/s , sinking with 8.125 m/s . For simplicity , assume a linearly decreasing sink rate , and the remaining time aloft will be less than 1000 sec or around a quarter of an hour . Now the towplane has 15 min to scramble the crew , run up the engines , get take-off clearance and to actually fly an intercept to the stricken airliner . How realistic is that ? How many airports are needed to have 777-sized towplanes ready , and how many otherwise unproductive 777s would this scheme need ? A car can stop and wait a couple of hours for the tow to reach it . An aircraft can not .
FORTRAN is not used much that I 'm aware of in aviation , but it is significantly used in aeronautical engineering . I work with people that use Mark Drela 's ' xfoil ' , ' xrotor ' and ' aswing ' programs on a daily basis for the design and analysis of airfoils , propellers and aerostructures . And I 've used the ' CHARM ' model of rotorcraft dynamics . All of these are written in FORTRAN and you often need to know the language to debug them or integrate them into other programs e.g. for global design optimization .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
Wind direction mostly , planes take off best when facing in the wind as that means free airspeed so the takeoff roll is shorter . In busier airspace ( with multiple towered airports ) each airport coordinates the corridors so they do n't intersect depending on available runways , prevailing winds and relative demands on the airports . It is possible that it is dictated by noise abatement measures so night time flights pass over a nearby forest rather than wake up the capital .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
If the airflow is parallel to the axis of rotation of a propeller , the resulting thrust force will also be parallel to the axis of rotation and act on the center of the propeller disc . If , however , the airflow hits the propeller at an angle of less than 90 ° , the resulting force will tilt towards the flow direction and shift away from the center of the propeller disc in a direction orthogonal to the directional change . Example : You fly in a single-engined plane , the two-bladed prop is spinning clockwise when seen from the pilot 's view and you push the left pedal such that the aircraft flies in a sideslip . If both propeller blades are level , nothing much changes , but if the propeller turns another 90 ° , both blades will see very different flow conditions ( see the sketch below ) : For the upper blade , which moves from left to right , the sum of circumferential speed ( $ \ omega \ cdot r _ { Prop } $ , red ) and air speed ( $ v _ { \ infty } $ , blue ) is bigger than that of the lower blade ( black arrows ) and hits the blade at a larger effective angle of attack $ \ alpha _ { eff } $ . Thus , the lift force created by the upper blade is much bigger , and as a result it will act at a point on the upper half of the propeller disc . The same happens when the plane flies at a high angle of attack and high power ( ground run of a taildragger , or climb ) and the airflow hits the propeller disc slightly from below . Now the thrust force will move to the right and tilt slightly downward . This will cause the aircraft to turn to the left and must be compensated with right rudder . This effect is sometimes called p-factor , but this is not a factor in an equation , but something you need to factor in when flying at high angle of attack . Note that the rotational component of the prop wash will cause a similar effect when it hits the rudder at an angle , adding to the leftward tendency of the plane .
They are ( and historically , were even more so ) two of the biggest cities in the business world ( ranked <URL> ) . That specific route has some of the highest rates of business travel and is , therefore , a fairly prestigious , famous route which is popular with fairly wealthy , prestigious people . They are also two of the most famous cities in the world , and most people know roughly where they are on a map . The fact they 're separated by an ocean which is large but was just small enough to be possible to cross safely in the early days of aviation also helped , because it gives the impression of being further than it is . For example it 's a comparable distance to London-Dubai , but that does n't " feel " as big due to being overland through Europe . Equally while many people know roughly where Dubai is nowadays , it was n't anywhere near as famous 30-80 years ago .
The APU is usually located at the rear of the aircraft , in the tail , so the intake is generally somewhere on the side of this location . Aircraft place the inlet in different places though , and some even put the APU somewhere different . For some examples : 737 intake , the small <URL> at the bottom <URL> ( the place they do n't want you to put de-icing fluid ) <URL> ( the scoop that opens upwards ) <URL> ( a scoop on the underside of the tail ) <URL> ( inside of the wheel well ) <URL> is an interesting thread including other examples .
end question
start question
What kind of g-forces do birds experience and how does it compare to humans ?
Birds regularly experience up 10-14 G according to this <URL> After looking at how birds and insects fly , scientists came up with the conclusion as to how birds cope with this is because : Animals will always have some advantages over machines , such as the ability to use their nervous systems to sense subtleties about the environment around them and alter their flight accordingly . further up near the top , it mentions comparisons between birds and high performance military aircraft , such as this : A Blackbird jet flying nearly 2,000 mph covers 32 of its own body lengths per second . But a common pigeon covers 75 of its body lengths a second . The roll rate of the aerobatic A-4 Skyhawk plane is about 720 degrees per second . The roll rate of a barn swallow is more than 5,000 degrees per second . Some military aircraft can withstand gravitational forces of 8-10 G ( Earth 's gravity is equal to 1 G ) . Many birds routinely experience G-forces greater than 10 G and up to 14 G . According to another <URL> the reason humans ca n't cope with high g 's as well is because : Every bit of our muscular-skeletal system is naturally crafted to deal with Earth 's gravity . Were you to travel to a planet that had a more significant gravity , a more massive planet with 5 G 's for example , you would either be unable to lift yourself off the ground , our the new weight-force would be so much that the air would be forced out of your lungs and your eyes would explode ( something gruesome for sure ) .
Short Answer In straight and level flight , it means do n't push over too fast . Doing so gets you " light in the seat " and things may fly about the cockpit/cabin . In some aircraft , negative " g " can make the oil " flow up " away from the sump and begin to starve your engine of much needed lubrication . ( Example : T-34C , trainer , limited to 10 seconds inverted flight . Straight and Level inverted flight is -1 " g. " ) More Answer You want to avoid flying with negative " g " in a variety of circumstances , depending upon how the aircraft is designed . Example : In a helicopter , negative " g " can have dire consequences . On the teetering , semi rigid rotor heads in the original Huey , for example , unloading the head can lead to mast bumping , which can lead to catastrophic failure of the mast , and then some death . Counter Example : Flying a Pitts Special , or an F-18 , the aircraft is built to withstand some negative " g " due to their needing to fly particular maneuvers . " G " is a natural part of flying , but " how much " varies with design . Whenever you turn the aircraft , you will add a little bit of " g " load since " g " is a measure of acceleration . Vector sums based on angle of bank will tell you how much " g " you can expect in a level turn at constant speed . Example : a 60 degree angle of bank adds an additional " g " compared to level flight , and you feel a bit of a push into your seat .
Best bet is that there was an issue with the artificial horizon . If it was on an older aircraft without a glass cockpit , the gyro or its gimbal was probably broken causing the face to ' float ' around or just stick at an odd angle . Then it was then communicated poorly to you by someone . Other than that I have never heard of a " floating horizon " and a google search does n't yield any results either .
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
It depends on a number of factors like : the aircraft size and variant the range required the aircraft load equipment available Ground crew proficiency ... among others things . This figure from the 737 Airport Planning document gives 9 minutes for the fueling time for a Boeing 737-600 : <URL> Image from <URL> The following image shows the time taken for refueling a Boeing 747-8 Jumbo to be 44 minutes : <URL> Image from <URL>
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
Agility means that you can change the speed vector rapidly . The way this is done in aircraft is to <URL> into the desired direction and then to increase lift as much as possible . The lift force over time results in a kinetic energy change which accelerates the aircraft in the new direction and decelerates the old speed away . Flying faster means that the kinetic energy goes up with the square of the speed increase . What could turn 90 ° within 4 seconds at Mach 0.7 will take 200 seconds at Mach 5 when the same acceleration is applied . This makes clear that agility does not survive the speed increase . What if the force is increased ? To regain the same 22.5 ° / s turn rate would require a lift multiple of 50 ! This means hundreds of gs for a structure which is weakened by friction heating and a massive increase in wave drag . Since wave drag increases with the square of the speed increase , any hypersonic vehicle attempting to pull many gs will not stay hypersonic beyond the next few seconds ! Assuming an L/D of 10 , the deceleration would be in the order of 250 g if the wing tolerates 50 g of lift load and things are linearily scaled up . But that would be an L/D of 0.2 - in other words , the wing will be close to 90 ° angle of attack and the craft will break apart . Even the more reasonable 6 g of subsonic manoeuvring will mean a 36-fold increase im wave drag at Mach 5 , bringing L/D down to less than 2 . Conclusion : There is simply no way for hypersonic vehicles to be agile . The pilot is the least of your problems .
Today , the canopy is a multi-layer structure . In case of the F-16 , it consists of three layers : The innermost layer is 0.5 inch thick polycarbonate and drape-molded into the compound curvature shape . The center layer is 0.05 inch polyurethane to bond the inner to the outer layer . The outer layer is a 0.125 inch layer of acrylic ( PMMA ) . The canopy is bolted to a metal frame for assembly . Some canopy also use <URL> on the outer layer to fracture the material shortly before the ejection seat fires . <URL> F-16 canopy ( picture <URL> ) For less fast aircraft , a single layer of acrylic is sufficient . Funnily , the <URL> does n't even have a page in Wikipedia . They use flat PMMA sheets and drape-mold them over a mandrel . The secret of their process is the grease they put on the mandrel so the acrylic flows easily into shape .
X-Plane is a much truer simulation of flying than that flight game Microsoft used to make . In fact , when coupled with certified hardware and a CFI , X-Plane can power a sim that you can actually log FTD time in . Since you ask about airline flying for your comparison , there is a lot more to that than just the flying . An airline pilot is , with few exceptions , always operating under instrument flight rules ( IFR ) . This means flying in the clouds with no reference to anything but instruments , weather as bad as a few hundred feet visibility and strong crosswinds for landing and takeoff are all part of normal ops . You are also operating under ATC , so radio ops are normal . The only comparable computer simulation of ATC to reality is VATSIM ( as mentioned in comments ) , though it does n't approach the level of busyness that you 'll find in some airspace and airports ( with the exception of some of their organized fly-ins ) . A transport category jet is also a bit more complicated than " turn the engines on , release the brakes and go " . The only computer sims that capture the level of detail properly are ones like the <URL> . Before you can start the engines , you need to first power the aircraft and perform your receiving checklists , and if you are the first flight of the day , additional first-flight checks . These cover : Thorough pre-flight walkaround inspection Powering the airplane on batteries Transition to ground power ( GPU ) or start the APU for power Verifying the state of all systems Fire test Stall warning test Anti-ice system test Checking oxygen levels and masks Autopilot test Backup instrumentation checks Before pushback : Verifying fuel load Get load information from flight attendant/gate agent/dispatch/ramp supervisor Calculate weight and balance , move passengers and/or bags if needed Get ATC clearance and program FMS Flight crew and cabin crew briefings Weather briefing Start APU and disconnect ground power and ground air conditioning Get clearance for pushback During pushback : " Before engine start " checklist Set bleeds / packs for engine start Communicate with ground crew for engine start Now you can start an engine . Unlike a small airplane where you start the engine by turning a key in an ignition switch , <URL> . Engine parameters must also be monitored in case an abort becomes necessary . At this point you can get a taxi clearance and start moving toward the runway . You 'll go through a couple more checklists , " after start/taxi " and " before departure " , to prepare the plane for taxi and takeoff . Once you are on the runway , with all checks completed , with more fuel than your minimum dispatch release , and an ATC clearance you may then release the brakes and go flying . One pilot will fly and the other will monitor instruments . Much of the above is beyond the typical scope of X-Plane , though some can be addressed with specific aircraft add-ons , manuals and software like VATSIM .
There are a few ways to sense ice on an airframe . The <URL> here that outlines the various types of sensors . First and foremost planes have ice lights that project onto the wings so they can be visually inspected . There are <URL> that use a variety of methods to detect ice . There are also some electro mechanical devices , here are a few examples , the rest are outlined in the <URL> . Penny and Giles The Penny and Giles system uses a probe type sensor that measures ice buildup in terms of Liquid Water Content ( LWC ) . This system was designed specifically for use on helicopters and is available for all turbine-powered helicopters . Rosemount The sensing probe is driven magnetostrictively to vibrate at its resonant frequency of 40,000 Hz . As the ice detector enters an icing environment , ice collects on the sensing probe . The added mass of the accreted ice causes the frequency of the sensing probe to decrease in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics . Sunstrand The Sunstrand system uses a mounted probe with a sensing surface facing the airstream . Beta particles are released from a Strontium 90 Radiation Source and are collimated by a specially shaped window in the probe housing . These particles pass across the sensing surface to a Geiger-Muller tube . High voltage is applied to the Geiger-Muller tube to enable it to detect the radiation emitted by the Strontium 90 source . Ice accretion on the probe decreases the beta particles detected by the tube . When the particle count drops below a pre-set level , a pulse rate discriminating amplifier energizes an icing signal visible to the flight crew . At this time a heater inside the probe is activated , the ice is removed from the probe , and the probe is ready to begin another icing cycle . Some of these will work in a static situation while others may require the passage from a non icing environment to an icing situation .
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
PPL is <URL> May fly for pleasure or personal business . Private pilots can not be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by any operator . CPL is <URL> Can be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by operators and are required to have higher training standards than private or sport pilots . ATPL is <URL> ATPs , as they are called , typically qualify to fly the major airliners . ATPs must qualify with a range of experience and training to be considered for this certificate . -- <URL>
Lufthansa does . They actually prefer people they can train themselves , so they never learned things which Lufthansa considers bad practice . This becomes impossible if the airline grows quickly . Therefore , all the new carriers ( Etihad or Vueling , for example ) need to rely on hiring certified pilots . See <URL> ( only in German but speaking German is a requirement anyway ) . Thanks , Danny , for the link . Lufthansa has now adopted English as their corporate language , so I wonder how firm the German language requirement still is .
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
The short answer is that at negative 2 G , the airframe limit for the A7-E , it took little effort to keep your feet on the rudder pedals . In controlled flight there are aircraft limitations on both positive and negative G. I flew the A7-E for the US Navy and have some operational experience that might offer some context to the question . I believe the positive G was limited to somewhere between 7-9 G. Ca n't quite remember the exact number , and it did depend on the external store configuration as well . Newer aircraft have higher G loading capabilities , although the human body has its own limit . Fitness and training can extend the pilots envelope to high G . As mentioned negative G in the A7-E was limited to -2 . There was no issue at these sorts of values keeping your feet on the rudder pedals . It is worth mentioning that the rudder is controlled by the AFCS ( Automatic Flight Control System ) system and so there is no real need to keep your feet on the pedals , although I did use them at times . Negative 2 G 's was hard on the body , and a pilot would come back to the ship with bloodshot eyes after undergoing maneuvers that required this sort of thing . I can think of 3 times that a pilot would find themselves in a negative G environment . I am not including standard acrobatic maneuvers , but more tactical situations . One , and this was n't typical , was during training . At a high altitude you unloaded the aircraft to -2 G 's and set a 45 degree dive . As the airspeed increased it entered an area on the IAS instrument that was no longer valid , and this was close to Mach . The goal was to observe the characteristics of the aircraft when it went supersonic . There was a gentle pitch down as you broke the sound barrier . I did this maneuver once , although I commonly practiced 45 degree dive bombing deliveries . The second , and quite common , situation was a maneuver called a bug out . A bug out was used by a flight to engage other aircraft in air-to-air combat . It was at once a defensive and offensive maneuver . The lead called " Bug out . Bug out , " and the flight went to -2 G 's , unloading the aircraft , and giving up altitude for airspeed . As your adversary turned towards your 6-o'clock the flight would " Pitch back , " and pulling positive G 's , gaining altitude . Trading airspeed for altitude got the aircraft into slower flight where its turn rate could be maximized . The bug out placed the aircraft immediately in free fall with military thrust applied . Rolling inverted and applying positive G 's is like being in a turn in the sense that the positive G bleeds energy . The third situation was a defensive maneuver . At low airspeed and with someone directly on your 6 o'clock the pilot might try to " jink . " Jinking was a last ditch maneuver where the pilot randomly pulled maximum G , and then went full negative G. I used this against an F-14 in a fight , and afterwards the pilot came and told me he could n't get a firing solution . As for uncontrolled flight there is the flat spin which can exert substantial negative G on the pilot . If I remember correctly a flat spin had never been positively observed in an A7-E . It was postulated , however , that given asymmetric wing loading it might be possible . On the other hand the F-14 could enter a flat spin . Talking with pilots who had knowledge about this sort of flight I was told that the negative G could be large enough where it would not be possible to get your hands on the ejection handle , either low or high . Not sure about the feet :) An interesting side note . At times a pilot will find themselves in a high g turn , grunting against the inflated g-suit , and fighting the encroaching tunnel vision . When I found myself here I would pull on the stick a bit more and watch my peripheral vision go dark ( tunnel vision ) . A bit more g and the tunnel got even narrower , until it was like I was looking through a hole . Then I would ease the stick and watch the hole get bigger . Pull back and smaller . Kind of interesting .
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
Helicopters use more fuel than airplanes ( considering everything else being equal ) . When helicopters are traveling slow , they need more energy to hold their weight . When traveling fast ( according to their standards ) , the rotor drag is very high . This is the primary reason they need more power . More Power = More Fuel . Conventional aircraft have much less drag at a given weight and speed than a helicopter . Helicopters travel slow . When they burn more fuel per hour and travel slowly , fuel consumption per mile is much worse . They also stay low . Most have turbine engines , turbines burn lots of fuel at low altitudes . Wikipedia has a good article about <URL> . Two-seater and four-seater flying at 250 km/h with old generation engines can burn 25 to 40 liters per flight hour , 3 to 5 liters per 100 passenger km . The Sikorsky S-76C + + twin turbine helicopter gets about 1.65 mpg-US ( 143 L/100 km ; 1.98 mpg-imp ) at 140 knots ( 260 km/h ; 160 mph ) and carries 12 for about 19.8 passenger-miles per gallon ( 11.9 litres per 100 passenger km ) .
A localizer back course is simply flying on the back side of the localizer to the runway . How a localizer works is it sends out two signal lobes : one at 90Hz and the other at 150Hz . The localizer needle in the airplane compares the relative strength it receives from both lobes and then shows a deflection . See this figure from the <URL> published by the FAA . <URL> Notice the top left of the picture shows the same lobes on the same side of the runway . Now imagine flying the front-course , the blue lobe is on the right . If you are flying the back-course , the blue lobe would be on the left . The localizer needle does n't know if you are on the front-course or the back-course and will show the same deflection for both situations . The problem comes in for the back-course is that the needle deflection is deflected the wrong way . To answer your questions . What does back-course mean ? It simply means you are flying on the opposite of the localizer signal . If there is a back-course published , the signal strength will be strong enough to fly the approach as required . How common is a back-course approach ? There are currently 69 back-course approaches in the United States . There are approximately 1,893 ILS approaches . This is around 3.5 % of back-course approaches as compared to ILS approaches . The same flight and navigation instruments required to fly a front-course ILS is required to fly a back-course ILS . From a technique standpoint . Whenever I fly a back-course approach , irrespective of whether I am using an HSI or VOR receiver , I will always set in the front course . For pilots that use an HSI this will provide for " positive sensing " meaning the needle will deflect correctly . For pilots using a VOR , the needle will shade bottom numbers that correspond to heading that need to be flown to get back onto the back-course approach . <URL> If this was a back-course approach , notice that the needle is deflected to the right . Conventional wisdom says you need to turn away from the needle to re-intercept . I say to select a heading under the needle to fly . That heading will be approximately 120 ° . Take a look at the heading indicator and determine that you most likely need to turn left to re-intercept the back-course . Try it and you will see it works . Conversely , I also teach the same concept for an ILS except the heading to fly is on top of the VOR indicator instead of on the bottom .
TL ; DR : according to the most usual meanings of these acronyms : ACARS and CPDLC are applications VDL is a point-to-point communication technology To give an everyday-world analogy , the relationship between VDL and CPDLC/ACARS is the same as the relationship between 3G/4G and the web browser/facewhatstime app of your smartphone . More detailed answer From a telecommunication point of view , we represent the different functions of a network by <URL> . Ideally , one can replace the technology used to implement a given layer by any equivalent technology without impacting the other layers . The VHF Data Link ( VDL ) is a technology used to implement the functions of the <URL> and <URL> . It means that it is a technology designed to carry any digital data directly from one " device " ( aircraft or ground station ) to another ( resp . ground station or aircraft ) , independently of its actual content . There are different versions of <URL> , namely modes 1 to 4 . The current deployments of VDL in europe by ANSPs use VDL mode 2 . CPDLC is an application ( <URL> ) . It is directly facing the user , and can use any layer below it ( in particular , it can use VDL , HFDL or satcom as layers 1/2 ) ACARS is ... a more ambiguous word . It predates the OSI model , and at first it described both the application ( text-oriented transmission ) and the point-to-point communication technology . Nowadays , pilots use the word ACARS to talk about the application ( the printer in the cockpit ) , and that particular application can , as any application , use any underlying link layer ( VDL , HFDL , satcom ... ) . But the old meaning of " ACARS " to describe the original blob of " point-to-point technology + network + application " can still be found today , for example in the acronym POA ( plain old ACARS ) . By the way , the point-to-point technology originally used by ACARS is also called VDL mode 1 .
end question
start question
What is it like flying in class B airspace ?
On my first cross-country as a student ( dual ) , we actually transitioned through the class B airspace just north of us , flew to a smaller airport north of town , did a landing there , followed by flying back to the class B and landing at the primary airport there before returning home . Basically , I had a few key experiences : The controllers work quickly and expect you to pay attention . More than once , as a rather inexperienced pilot , my instructor had to help with the radio , either in understanding the instruction , or helping reduce my confusion by handling communication . Even on a slower Sunday , the center was training a new controller , so there were times the person training had to step in to clear up some of the radio congestion -- we almost had to turn away from the class B , since they had n't yet assigned us a beacon and cleared us through the bravo . We got vectored around pretty quickly ... which , basically threw out all our flight planning ( we were expecting this to happen anyway ) . Talking to approach to land , they told us to expect the visual approach to one of the parallel runways , and the tower controller did n't toss us any curve balls there . Although , with the headwinds , even with a fair amount of power , we were n't moving very quickly , and probably got cleared to land a bit too early ( thankfully , the airspace was n't busy ... but there were a few jets waiting for us to land and taxi off ) . Ground control and clearance delivery was combined , and they were pleasant enough to give us progressive taxi without asking ( I was expecting to write furiously ) , and also let us taxi to depart off the intersecting runway . Departing after cleared and returning home was pretty uneventful . At this point , I was out of the way for most traffic . Much more like being under regular flight following . Granted , it 's not like I was flying into ORD -- it was a pretty slow day at an airport that is n't busy much to begin with -- but I have a feeling if you 've been used to flying from a Class C airport , not much will feel different for the most part , especially at one of the smaller Class B airports ( and for the bigger ones especially -- DEFINITELY get to know the airport diagram beforehand ) . To answer some of your specific question , the A/FD will list traffic patterns ( probably going to be opposing right/left traffic for parallel runways so people do n't end up head on at each other ) ;) Controllers will guarantee separation from all aircraft , so you 'll be assigned a heading and altitude ( maybe " at or below " ) , and possibly a speed . So really , if your radio communications are good and you 're able to fly straight and level , you wo n't have many problems ( it just comes down to obeying clearances , and not violating any airspace ) . You 're right that you would need an endorsement to fly solo into a Class B airspace , but this would not apply if you were dual with your instructor , since they are PIC .
According to the post at LiveATC , <URL> , apparently due to <URL> . With the airport closed , nobody could be granted clearance to take off or land . Outside of declaring an emergency , there 's nothing the pilot ( s ) could have done to get clearance at Newark other than just waiting . In an emergency situation like smoke in the tower , there would n't be anything published beforehand for the pilots to look up , but otherwise , pilots look at NOTAMS during their flight planning for planned closures or outages . Even in good weather , proper flight planning would also involve an alternate airport , anticipating the possibility that the intended airport might be closed for an emergency like this . <URL> is <URL> , a small uncontrolled field just outside the Class B surface area . If I had passengers in my ship who were trying to fly out of Newark , I would have radioed operations and asked them to send a limo to Linden to pick up my passengers . [ There is one part of the recording that says " [ inaudible ] " . The pilot is announcing his position at the Statue of Liberty , a reporting point for copters landing EWR . ]
The pilot means : I 'll be back again , so please do n't assign this code to someone else . Less workload for a pilot going in and out of class-B airspaces , and less hassle for the controllers , so they do n't keep assigning a different code to the same plane . The pilot will switch to the <URL> ( 1200 in the USA ) , and then use the one he 's written down and used earlier for future passes .
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
Visalia , CA ( KVIS ) is an uncontrolled airport with a Class E surface area and an ILS with 200 ' minimums .
METAR is a Meteorological Aerodrome Report which is for a specific place , at a specific time . The first line is a report from Sao Paulo at 22:00 on the 17th . You can use a service such as <URL> to decode METAR reports . The rest of the lines are more reports for different time and days . The groups are :
A first class medical issued to a 35 year old pilot on 15 Jan 2012 will let that pilot : exercise privileges of an ATP certificate until 23:59 31 Jan 2013 exercise privileges of a commercial certificate until 23:59 31 Jan 2013 exercise privileges of a private , recreational , student or CFI certificate ( if the CFI is acting PIC ) until 23:59 31 Jan 2017 Your first class medical is always a first class medical -- you do n't get private pilot privileges for 5 years because a first class medical grants third class privileges , rather you get private pilot privileges for 5 years because that is what a first class medical grants you . These durations are from the table of 61.23 ( d ) . You do n't see this language in the text above the table because they are not concerned with the duration of the privileges but only the minimum required medical class for specific operations . For example , 61.23 ( a ) ( 2 ) ( ii ) says you must hold at least a second class medical to exercise the privileges of a commercial certificate and 61.23 ( d ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) and 61.23 ( d ) ( 2 ) ( i ) list the duration that each of an first and second class medical can be used to for this purpose .
For a short introduction on what ADS-B is and why it is called dependent see <URL> . ADS-B is a surveillance technology whereby the aircraft broadcasts information about its identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft to any interesting party . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . TCAS ADS-B is not intended to replace TCAS , although in the future it will augment TCAS . The TCAS algorithm currently only uses distance and altitude to calculate whether there is a conflict and to determine the best conflict resolution strategy . With the more accurate ADS-B position available to the system as well , the number of TCAS interrogation can be reduced ( the surveillance radio frequencies are getting congested in some areas ) and the performance of TCAS can be improved . A new standard for this hybrid approach was <URL> <URL> . It may also be possible to have a passive TCAS-like system that does not require active interrogation but is purely depending on ADS-B . Currently a technical standard for a new <URL> ( ACAS , the generic name for TCAS ) is being developed in a joint RTCA / EUROCAE committee ( RTCA SC-147 / EUROCAE WG-75 ) , which will take advantage of more data offered by ADS-B . This new standard will eventually replace TCAS II . A ' TCAS light ' for small aviation has also been developed based on ADS-B . It is called Traffic Situation Awareness with Alerts ( TSAA ) , a standard that was <URL> <URL> . Within the next couple of years we will see manufacturers start offering products based on this standard . ATC The purpose of ADS-B is neither to replace ground based ATC . But it will change the way ATC is done . ADS-B IN will improve the situation awareness of pilots ; they will have a display of accurate positions of other aircraft . New procedures will allow pilots to maintain visual separation to other aircraft in marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) , where they currently would often lose sight of other traffic . A more advanced usage of ADS-B will be flight deck based interval management ( FIM ) where ATC will be able to instruct aircraft to ' follow that plane XX seconds behind for landing on runway YY ' . A first technical standard for FIM is being worked on , it is intended to be published before the end of this year . ADS-B is neither a replacement for all radars , although it will allow the number of radars to be reduced . For remote areas that currently do not have radar coverage because of the associated high costs , ADS-B will be a cost effective alternative . Over the oceans , satellite <URL> will be able to provide surveillance , changing the way ATC is performed over the high seas . GNSS Given the examples above , it is easy to understand the requirements on the reliability of ADS-B are substantial . Not only must the system be able to deliver accurate position data , it must be able to deliver that data with high integrity . That means , the probability that the system transmits inaccurate position data , even when there is a failure in the system , must be extremely small . To achieve this , a positioning systems must be able to do internal cross checks to detect failures and not depend on possible erroneous inputs from humans . GPS can meet the position source requirements using Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) . The ADS-B technical specifications have all been written in such a way that they do not explicitly require GNSS to be the position source , but at the moment it is the only system that meets the requirement effectively . Most certification documents are written with the assumption that a GNSS will be used to provide position data . Theoretically one could put another system forward , but the costs of certifying that would be very high .
Well , sort of . In Class G airspace you often find ATZs . This is airspace 2nmi radius to 2,000 ft around an aerodrome that is controlled by the aerodrome so take-off and landings . They are often not surrounded by Class-A or Class-D airspace and just control the immediate area around the aerodrome , and are full ATC unit , although sometimes only an AFIS . So , there is a little controlled airspace associated with it , but very little . An aircraft must have permission to penetrate it . In the UK a clear example is EGCL ( Fenland ) . However , if you count this as too much controlled airspace for your question , then no . It would not be practical to control landings or take-off when the aircraft is immediately in uncontrolled airspace . <URL>
The key point is in your last sentence : In the case of class G airspace from the ground , the airspace is uncontrolled . Uncontrolled airspace is , well , uncontrolled . An appropriately rated , current pilot , in an appropriately equipped aircraft , may fly IFR in class G airspace without either a clearance or a flight plan . There are no clearances to waive VFR minima in class G , because the flight is conducted under IFR . If an entire flight is flown in class G airspace , a pilot does not need to talk to a controller at all . When class G airspace is overlaid by controlled airspace , like class E , the pilot will need a clearance before entering controlled airspace . The controller will provide a clearance ( <URL> , p. 4-3-2 ) : WHEN ENTERING CONTROLLED AIRSPACE ( instruction ) , FLY HEADING ( degrees ) UNTIL REACHING ( altitude , point , or fix ) BEFORE PROCEEDING ON COURSE . Once the pilot is released for departure , they would depart IFR in class G , where they would be responsible for their own terrain and traffic clearance ( using tools like an <URL> ) . As soon as they climb into class E airspace , they receive the benefits and responsibilities of flying in the ATC system . An interesting <URL> is raised <URL> . In this case , a pilot departed a class G airport with class E starting at 700 AGL , and broke out of the clouds before entering controlled airspace . The ruling basically said that taking off in this situation without a clearance is not explicitly illegal , but falls under " careless or reckless operation " prohibited by <URL> .
For the GA fleet , there is some historical precedent operating here . Years ago , engines were much less reliable than they are today . Dragging it in generally means that you can not glide it in if you have a complete power failure . This translates to saying in the event of an engine failure , you are landing off airport with limited selection of landing sites ( your altitude is low as you are now below pattern altitude ) . So if you are flying behind an old Curtis OX-5 in your Jenny , a gliding approach to landing was recommended back in the day . Engines are much more reliable today . After an analysis of landing accidents , the FAA determined that a stabilized approach to landing is less likely to result in an accident , and they changed their guidance accordingly . Stabilized approaches are partial power-on landings . Some old timers and some old time CFIs reject the FAA 's statistical analysis and still teach/fly glide-it-in landings . Properly executed , both approaches to landing are safe . It is just that the FAA thinks that stabilized approaches are safer given engines commonly in use today . It is also true that virtually all airlines require stabilized approaches in their operating specs , and that a go around is mandatory if the approach is not stabilized . With this in mind , flight schools that aspire to send their graduates to the majors will all teach stabilized approaches .
I get this question a lot from people who are apprehensive about flying with a private pilot . I 'm afraid I wo n't be reducing these fears in any way . Let 's review some general statistics during 2008 . Note - these stats are n't specific to light or single engine aircraft : <URL> reported there were 1.21 fatalities per 100,000 flight hours for private aircraft ( Part 91 operators ) . <URL> reported there were 1.26 fatalities per 100 million miles travelled by automobile We can equate that to about 2 million hours ( estimating an average speed of 50mph ) . This gives us 0.063 fatalities per 100,000 driving hours . Private aircraft have a fatality rate about 19 times greater than driving . It is also true that a majority of the accidents that occur are pilot error ( 71 % ) and could have been prevented . There are risks involved when taking to the sky as a private pilot and understanding these risks is part of the continual learning process . The key to safety is performing careful planning , keeping current and proficient , knowing when to cancel flights or turn around and not to exceed your capabilities or the capabilities of your aircraft .
Yes , there is <URL> on this : [ ... ] under the express language of the regulation , aircraft operating in the airspace underlying Class B airspace - irrespective of whether the underlying airspace is controlled or uncontrolled - may not exceed the 200-knot speed limitation So it is indeed any and all airspace underlying class B. And note the exception to the rule : We note § 91.117 ( d ) does provide that , if the minimum safe airspeed for any particular operation is greater than the maximum speed prescribed in § 91.117 , then an aircraft may be operated at that minimum speed .
AOPA has the best database that I know of , but you have to be a member to view it . They have some free information on their <URL> page though . There they talk about FAA Policy , and it starts with : The Federal Aviation Regulations include no specific references to medication usage . FAR 61.53 prohibits acting as pilot-in-command or in any other capacity as a required pilot flight crewmember , while that person : Knows or has reason to know of any medical condition that would make the person unable to meet the requirement for the medical certificate necessary for the pilot operation , or : Is taking medication or receiving other treatment for a medical condition that results in the person being unable to meet the requirements for the medical certificate necessary for the pilot operation . Further , FAR 91.17 prohibits the use of " any drug that affects the persons faculties in any way contrary to safety . " <URL> ( Aviation Medicine Advisory Service ) also has a list ( which is free ) but I do n't think that it is organized as well . They are recommended by ALPA and NBAA though . The most important thing though , of course , is to self evaluate and make sure that you do n't fly if you are having any adverse reactions from the medication , or the underlying condition that you are taking the medicine for . Any list that you consult has to be used only as a guide though , and not a carte-blanche approval . Individual people can have reactions even to medications that are considered " safe " and " allowed " by the FAA , and this is why they do n't list specific medications that they allow . The FAA has a brochure called <URL> , and one part of it has a few things to consider before taking any medication : First , consider the underlying condition that you are treating . What will be the consequences if the medication does n't work or if it wears off before the ﬂight is over ? A good general rule to follow is not to ﬂy if you must depend on the medication to keep the ﬂight safe . In other words , if the untreated condition is one that would prevent safe ﬂying , then you should n't ﬂy until the condition improves -- whether you take the medication or not . Second , you must consider your reaction to the medication . There are two broad categories of medication reactions . One is a unique reaction based on an individual 's biological make-up . Most people do n't have such reactions but anyone can , given the right medication . Because of this , you should NEVER ﬂy after taking any medication that you have not taken before . It is not until after you have taken the medication that you will ﬁnd out whether you have this uncommon and unexpected reaction to the medication . Third , consider the potential for adverse reactions , or side effects -- unwanted reactions to medications . This type of reaction is quite common , and the manufacturer of the medication lists these on the label . You MUST carefully read all labeling . If you do n't have access to the label , then do n't ﬂy while using the medication . Look for such key words as lightheadedness , dizziness , drowsiness , or visual disturbance . If these side effects are listed or if the label contains any warning about operating motor vehicles or machinery , then you should not ﬂy while using the medication . Side effects can occur at any time , so even if you 've taken the same medication in the past without experiencing side effects , they could still occur the next time . For this reason , you must never ﬂy after taking a medication with any of the above-noted side effects .
Lets back up a minute and discuss what is required to enter C and D airspace . For C and D airspace you must establish 2 way radio communications with tower or approach controller . Let 's first discuss how this works if you are not taking Flight Following . As you approach Class C airspace you hail them and wait for a response , for example , You : " Allentown Approach Piper 1234J @ 3000 en route to Queen City Municipal " Controller : " 1234J Squawk 1-3-5-2 and Ident " Since the controller responded with your tail number you may enter the Charlie airspace ( Delta has the same requirements ) . Now when you are under Flight Following , ATC will coordinate a handoff to the Approach or Tower for the airspace you are about to enter , or ATC will say " radar services terminated , " and you must contact the controller/tower yourself before entering . You SHOULD NOT change frequencies until you are told to do so , since ATC may be trying to give you a traffic advisory . You can however tune your second radio ( if you have one ) to the approach/tower you are approaching , and begin to monitor traffic .
Short Version An accelerated stall is a stall that occurs at an airspeed higher than normal due to a higher load factor ( g loading ) . Longer Version When an aircraft is in a bank or when pulling back on the yoke quickly , the wing has to create additional lift to support the aircraft since the load factor has increased . This increases the angle of attack beyond the critical angle of attack ( the point where the wings can no longer produce enough lift to support the airplane ) and the airplane will stall even though it is above the normal stall speed for the airplane . Example Let 's say that we are flying an airplane that has a " normal " stall speed of 60 KIAS . If we start a 60 degree banked turn , this will increase the load factor on the airplane by two ( 2g ) and will increase our stall speed by 41 % to 85 KIAS . A fairly common cause of this type of accident is when a pilot overshoots the runway centerline during the turn from base to final and steepens the bank angle in order to " turn faster " to get back on final . Because the stall speed goes up , they can stall the airplane even though they normally never even come close at their current airspeed . Instead , they should have just maintained the current bank angle that they had ( instead of steepening it ) and continued the turn back to re-intercept final using normal maneuvers . If that could n't be done in the amount of altitude/distance available , then simply go around and come back to try again ( while making the proper wind correction in the turns this time ) .
<URL> , the World Meteorological Organization defines tropopause as The boundary between the troposphere and the stratosphere , where an abrupt change in lapse rate usually occurs . It is defined as the lowest level at which the lapse rate decreases to 2 ˚C / km or less , provided that the average lapse rate between this level and all higher levels within 2 km does not exceed 2 ˚C / km . Occasionally , a second tropopause may be found if the lapse rate above the first tropopause exceeds 3 ˚C / km . The tropopause height varies with latitude and season . The variation with latitude , based on annual mean conditions , is shown below : <URL> Image from <URL> Troposphere can be identified only if the <URL> ( the rate at which atmospheric temperature decreases with increase in altitude ) in the stratosphere and troposphere are known . Also , weather phenomena like thunderstorms shift the tropopause . As a result , the height of the tropopause is forecast based on localized weather conditions , and is not a fixed boundary . The International Standard atmosphere , however , defines tropopause as lying between ~ 11,000 and 20,000 meters ( geopotential altitude ) above MSL .
No it is not required to contact approach . Unless you have to go through a larger D , C or B airspace to get there . I do n't know of any larger Ds in the US , but there are plenty of D-airfields underneath C and B airspace . In Germany ( and I think around Europe , not sure though ) , there 's a distinction between the tower-D and the approach-D ( the former being called D-CTR , and the other just D ) , to enter the approach-D you 'd have to talk to approach , but if you can sneak under/around it , go ahead and call the tower directly , let them know where you are , and they 'll tell you how to enter their airspace . In the US , they 'll probably just tell you to enter the pattern ( like " N12345 , enter and report the right base for runway 5 " ) . In Europe you need an explicit clearance and they 'll usually tell you how to enter ( like " DEFGH , enter control zone via Echo , report Echo " , Echo being a reporting point on the chart , Echo usually being to the east , with November , Whiskey and Sierra being north , west and south respectively ( usually , that is , there may be more , and they may be placed differently , but they 're always on the sectional or the terminal area chart )
<URL> describes considerations for choosing sunglasses for pilots . Since the document concludes , that Polarized sunglasses are not recommended I presume there is no rule that would explicitly forbid it . However there is always the " operate aircraft careless and reckless manner " paragraph and if you badly screwed up while wearing such sunglasses and there was grounded belief that some of the disadvantages of such sunglasses contributed to the incident , you could be charged with that . The document quotes following reasons why they are not recommended : may reduce or eliminate visibility of instruments with polarization-based anti-glare filters , may reduce or eliminate visibility of LCD instruments ( LCDs emit polarized light by design ) , may interfere with visibility through an aircraft windscreen by enhancing striations in laminated materials , may mask the sparkle of light that reflects off shiny surfaces such as another aircraft 's wing or windscreen , which can reduce the time a pilot has to react in a " see-and-avoid " traffic situation . Even if your plane does not have any instruments with polarization filters and no issues with striations in laminated windshield , filtering reflections from other aircraft is definitely not what you want . Note that in most other situations , filtering reflections ( from water , cars , metal roofs etc. ) is desirable and is why polarized glasses exist , because reflections from close objects can be blinding . But in aircraft you are far from the sources of reflection , so the risk of blinding reflection is low , while the reflections can alert you to presence of other aircraft that might otherwise be hard to spot when looking towards the sun .
As far as I know , it is n't a standard aviation term , it 's just a casual phrase that he 's using to emphasize or remind himself about the stick movement he needs . It 's like your instructor telling you to " get dancing " on the rudder pedals : it 's not an aviation term as such , but it 's a very clear , descriptive reminder . In a three-point landing you pull the stick all the way back after touchdown to keep the tail down . That helps to prevent unwanted pitch movements and gets weight on the tailwheel to help with directional control on the ground ( as airspeed decreases and the rudder loses authority ) . Deflecting the stick to the right would be because of a crosswind from the right . Put those two things together , and the required stick movement is back and to the right , which is one " corner " of the range of motion it has .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of flutter testing ?
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
Best $ L/D $ is short hand for the airspeed where you have the best ratio of Lift to Drag , and is the same as $ \ textrm { max } \ L/D $ . If you graph Airspeed - vs - the $ L/D $ ratio , it will look something like this : <URL> The peak point of the graph would be the " best " $ L/D $ and represents the airspeed where the airplane is the most aerodynamically efficient . For unpowered flight , it is the airspeed which will result in the best glide ratio .
For the current format , it was 1993 when it was standardized . On July 1 , 1993 , a new , revised Terminal Aerodrome Forecast ( TAF ) format and code replaced the existing TAF code . This new code is in effect in most countries . The exceptions are the United States and Canada . These two countries issue Terminal Forecasts for domestic use and TAFs for the military and those airports serving international aviation . On January 1 , 1996 the U.S. and Canada will convert entirely to the new TAF code . After that date , the new code for weather reports ( METAR ) and TAFs will be used worldwide . The North American code used in the FT ( and SAO ) will be discontinued . Although the new TAF code is being adopted worldwide , each country is allowed to make modifications or exceptions to the code for use in each particular country . The TAF code , as described here , is the one used in the United States for those airports serving international aviation and will also be used after the January 1 , 1996 conversion date . The World Meteorological Organization 's ( WMO ) publication No. 782 " Aerodrome Reports and Forecasts " contains the base METAR and TAF code as adopted by the WMO member countries . ( <URL> ) <URL> also confirms the date for the US . The WMO publication No. 782 can be <URL> .
Instrument landing system - ILS - is a very common precision approach system used in airports around the world . An ILS consists of two ground antennas and an airborne received in the aircraft . One of the ground antennas , known as a localiser , transmits a narrow beam along the runway , giving lateral guidance to aircraft approaching the runway . The other antenna , the glide slope , transmits a vertical beam at a specified angle , giving vertical guidance for aircraft approaching . Together , the localiser and glide slope provides aircraft with an exact path to follow toward the runway . <URL> A localiser antenna The main advantage of ILS is that is allows approaches and landings in poor weather conditions . Pilots do not have to visually see the runway until moments before touchdown , because the ILS can guide the plane down very precisely . However , there are different standards of ILS . These are named CAT I , CAT II and CAT III ( CAT III has three additional substandards : CAT IIIa , CAT IIIb and CAT IIIc ) . In order to fly a CAT I approach , the cloud based ( ceiling ) must be no lower than 200 feet and the visibility must be no lower than 550 metres . This is because the pilots must be able to visually identify the runway no later than 200 feet above the ground to be able to land . For a CAT II approach , the ceiling must not be lower than 100 ft and the visibility not less than 350 metres . CAT IIIa has a minimum ceiling of 50 ft and a minimum visibility of 200 metres . CAT IIIb has no minimum ceiling , but there must be at least 50 metres of visibility . For a CAT IIIc , which has not actually been implemented anywhere , there are no minimum limits for ceiling and visibility . As you can see , CAT II or III approaches allow pilots to land is extremely bad weather conditions . So if CAT III is so great , why do n't we use it all the time ? In order to use CAT II/III approaches , a number of conditions have to be met : The ground based ILS equipment must live up to very strict standards , and be very carefully calibrated . As a result , installing and maintaining CAT II/III ILS equipment at an airport is very expensive , so not all airports have it . In addition to the ILS antennas , there are also strict requirements for other runway equipment such as lighting . The aircraft must have special equipment that is certified to perform CAT II/III approaches . Again , cost is a significant factor . Equipping aircraft with such fine tuned equipment is very expensive , and if you mostly fly to areas with good weather , it is probably not worth it . The pilots must be qualified . A normal pilot license is not enough to fly a CAT II/III approach , you need additional training and qualifications to be allowed to perform such approaches . Air traffic control low visibility procedures result in reduced airport capacity . Because ILS signals are transmitted from antennas on the ground , there are risks of interfering with the ILS signal , resulting in imprecise guidance . The main issue is when an aircraft moves in front of the antennas , partly blocking the signal for other aircraft on approach . Because of this , airports have strict rules for how close aircraft may get to ILS antennas when CAT II/III approaches are in use . Aircraft on the ground must hold further away from the runway than they normally would , to stay clear of so called ILS sensitive areas . <URL> An example of ILS sensitive/critical areas at an airport <URL> Separate runway holding points used when CAT II/III approaches are carried out We also need additional space between two aircraft approaching the same runway . This is because the first aircraft , once landed and on the runway , can block parts of the localiser signal for the following aircraft . Because of this , the first aircraft must be clear of the runway by the time the second aircraft joins short final . This means we need extra space between aircraft , resulting in a reduced runway capacity . As you can see , there are a number of factors limiting the use of CAT II/III approaches , which is why they are only used when the weather is so bad that CAT I approaches can not be carried out .
The weight of the battery is <URL> : Power is provided by 127 kg . of 250-volt lithium-ion polymer batteries from Kokam in South Korea built into the wing . A slightly different weight is <URL> : ... E-Fan has two lithium-polymer battery packs weighing 65 kg each . I could not find which Kokam battery is being used on the e-fan , but <URL> for all of their batteries .
From a totally practical standpoint , let 's say you 're in a small tricycle gear aircraft with a freely castoring nose wheel ( or a tail dragger ) and you 're starting your takeoff roll in a calm wind . When you bring the power up , the aircraft is going to want to turn left ( <URL> ) , in other words to yaw about its vertical axis in a counter-clockwise direction , and head for the grass off the left side of the runway . You counteract that adverse yaw by using right rudder to keep the airplane straight . Initially you might have to use some right brake as well until there 's sufficient air moving past the rudder . If you had a steerable nose gear , you would n't need the right brake . You reach flying speed , apply up elevator , and lift off . As the airplane rotates about its lateral axis , there 'll be some additional adverse yaw as a result of that rotation ( again another question ) . Even if you had a steerable nose gear , that would now be useless as the nose gear is no longer on the ground . Your means of continuing to fly straight ahead is to counter the adverse yaw with rudder , and you would continue to use right rudder as you climb out . If you do n't , you 'll start turning left . You reach the altitude you want , level off , and trim for level flight straight ahead . Then you decide you want to turn left . You start the turn briskly with left aileron , but you forgot to use any rudder . If you were looking at the ball on the bottom of the turn and bank indicator , you would see it shoot left . If you had used left rudder while initiating the turn , that would n't have happened . You would have started a coordinated turn . Now you 're coming back to the airport , and there 's a crosswind from the left . You decide you want to counter that crosswind by slipping into it . In other words , you want the airplane to travel sideways at a speed that matches the crosswind while still having your nose pointing straight down the runway . So , you lower the left wing and to keep the airplane from turning , you use right rudder to keep the airplane aligned with the runway . You match the crosswind by adding or decreasing your bank . There are other uses of rudder , and especially in aerobatics . I once flew a few loads of skydivers . The jumpmaster sat behind me , and to help him in positioning for the drop zone , he wanted flat turns . In other words , he wanted the airplane turned while keeping the wings level . So , if he wanted a left turn , that meant left rudder and right aileron . Uncomfortable from a pilot 's standpoint . Finally , back in the 1960s when I was working on my instrument rating , I had an instructor who taught that the best way to track a localizer in close was to use rudder only for small corrections . Personally , I do n't like that method , but it 's one way of doing things . A useful thing , the rudder . You need to be able to directly control movement about all three aircraft axes .
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
A route is how you go from place to place . A segment is a portion of your route which is characterized by a consistent course/altitude . A route may have one segment , or many . An MTR is a Military Training Route . If no portions of the route exceed 1,500 AGL , then it is given a four-digit identifier . I 'm pretty sure that the three-digit / four-digit decision was arbitrary , but I 'm ready to be educated . <URL>
I may have more news on that next week from Sun 'n Fun 2017 . Pipistrel will be an exhibitor at the show and may have a Panthera prototype on display . Currently the Panthera is planned to be released as an experimental kit and may be type certified at some point in the future . I know the program has suffered some setbacks , including an increase of empty weight by some 200 lbs . New aircraft development is never fast nor without complications . The Panthera does look intriguing - 200 KIAS on 10 GPH with good , stable flight characteristics and modern avionics , BRS parachute , etc. . I want to take it for a demo flight when production examples become available .
The answer can be found in Annex 16 of the ICAO , a copy including the noise limits can be found <URL> . Below a little excerpt from the annex : ( a ) For acoustical changes to Stage 1 airplanes , regardless of the number of engines , the noise levels prescribed under § 36.7 ( c ) of this part . What are the ' Chapter 2 ' and ' Chapter 3 ' aircraft noise classifications ? Certificated noise levels for larger aircraft are classified by the ICAO ' Standards and Recommended Practices -- Aircraft Noise : Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ' into a ) Chapter 2 types , characterised by the noisier , low bypass turbofan aircraft and early high bypass turbofan aircraft , and b ) Chapter 3 types , characterised by the modern , quieter , high bypass turbofan aircraft . Under European legislation , since 2002 , ' Chapter 2 ' aircraft ( of over 34 tonnes maximum take-off weight or with more than 19 seats ) have no longer been allowed to operate at European airports . There are separate noise certification schemes for small propeller aircraft and for helicopters . ( b ) For any Stage 2 airplane regardless of the number of engines : ( 1 ) Flyover : 108 EPNdB for maximum weight of 600,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 600,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 5 EPNdB ; the limit is 93 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 75,000 pounds or less . ( 2 ) Lateral and approach : 108 EPNdB for maximum weight of 600,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 600,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2 EPNdB ; the limit is 102 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 75,000 pounds or less . ( c ) For any Stage 3 airplane : ( 1 ) Flyover . ( i ) For airplanes with more than 3 engines : 106 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 44,673 pounds or less ; ( ii ) For airplanes with 3 engines : 104 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 63,177 pounds or less ; and ( iii ) For airplanes with fewer than 3 engines : 101 EPNdB for maximum weight of 850,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 850,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 4 EPNdB ; the limit is 89 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 106,250 pounds or less . ( 2 ) Lateral , regardless of the number of engines : 103 EPNdB for maximum weight of 882,000 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 882,000 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2.56 EPNdB ; the limit is 94 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 77,200 pounds or less . ( 3 ) Approach , regardless of the number of engines : 105 EPNdB for maximum weight of 617,300 pounds or more ; for each halving of maximum weight ( from 617,300 pounds ) , reduce the limit by 2.33 EPNdB ; the limit is 98 EPNdB for a maximum weight of 77,200 pounds or less . ( d ) For any Stage 4 airplane , the flyover , lateral , and approach maximum noise levels are prescribed in Chapter 4 , Paragraph 4.4 , Maximum Noise Levels , and Chapter 3 , Paragraph 3.4 , Maximum Noise Levels , of the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) Annex 16 , Environmental Protection , Volume I , Aircraft Noise , Third Edition , July 1993 , Amendment 7 , effective March 21 , 2002 . [ Incorporated by reference , see § 36.6 ] .
One seller 's link on Amazon claimed 10 " x 5 " , but when I measured an old one ( only one I have handy ) , it was between 10.25 " and 10.5 " long by 5 " wide . So I 'd recommend using the latter value , knowing that the chart will probably be a hair under 10.5 " long and so you have room for error ( or a badly refolded chart ) .
Sadly , that information 's pretty much impossible to give a general answer for , as it changes from batch to batch : Refineries blend crude " to taste " as well as pricetag , so to speak , and the crude blend used as the refinery feedstock may change from batch to batch . Process conditions in catalytic crackers and reformers can change depending on the point in the batch you 're at , the incoming feedstock , and even the history of prior batches ( say the last thing that ran through the cat cracker degraded the catalyst slightly ... ) Jet fuels as-delivered may be a blend of multiple refinery batches and even the output of multiple refiners Pipeline batching can also lead to subtle changes in fuel composition as it is transported -- pipeline operators try to " cut off " as much of the transmix as they can , but 100 % is n't easy without wasting tons of fuel as transmix . ( Some pipeline operators will stick a " dumb pig " between high spec products , such as jet fuel , and their neighbors in the pipeline , but this is by no means universal . ) That said , you can make some determinations based off of <URL> : The fuel consists of medium-weight hydrocarbons , from C9 to C16 The only specified aromatic component is napthalene , with a maximum concentration of 3 % No additives ( anti-static , FSII , anti-oxidation , biocidal ) are specified -- these are generally variable from batch-to-batch , depending on the specific purchaser ( a large airport might get to spec these directly with the refiner , while the small GA ' dromes are at the mercy of whoever pulls up in the fuel truck )
Imbalanced or loose ( and , in extreme cases , <URL> ) control surfaces can cause flutter , <URL> . Flutter is a very dangerous condition ; if it is not stopped , it can cause structural failure and potentially lead to a fatal accident . V-tail Bonanzas had a series of such accidents related to flutter of the butterfly ruddervator tail . I understand that prevention is a combination of good maintenance and keeping the aircraft below Vne ( never exceed speed ) , or possibly other speeds in some configurations . The appropriate reaction would be to slow down , first and foremost . Descending is probably also a wise choice .
Well , the SDR dongle paid off - mystery solved . It turns out , the signal was actually at 153.2 MHz , but was somehow breaking through into 110.515 MHz on my handheld scanner . The signal originates from a high power pager transmitter using the FLEX protocol . As this is plain text , I decoded some of it using an excellent open source application called PDW , and have listed it below for reference and general interest ( sensitive information has been redacted ! ) .
Other people have complained about this too . Boeing should rename the type to the " Whineliner " . The noise is caused by a hydraulic pump which is situated directly below the cabin . It mostly runs on takeoff and landing , but it can also run automatically at other times . Dogs have been reported to need psychiatric treatment after being transported on a 787 .
In general , the method of getting the airspeed of any bird is pretty much the same : Measure the ground speed of the bird . Measure the wind speed in the area . Calculate the airspeed of the bird from these two values . The following excerpt from <URL> by C. J. Pennycuick et al. published by the Royal Society details one such method : We measured the bird 's air speed , for comparison with the predictions of theory , in two stages . First , we measured the ground speed vector , consisting of the bird 's speed relative to the observer 's position on the shore and its track direction , i.e. the direction in which the bird was moving over the ground , measured clockwise from true north . We also measured the wind vector consisting of the wind speed and the direction from which the wind was blowing , and then obtained the air speed vector ( air speed and heading direction ) by vector subtraction of the wind vector from the ground speed vector Other researchers have used Doppler radar for the same purpose and in case of high flying birds , one can simply fly along with the birds at the same speed and measure the airspeed .
The squawk code is assigned by Air Traffic Control to the aircraft and is used for radar identification purposes . It is a 4 digit octal number ( each digit has a value in the range [ 0-7 ] ) . The flight crew enters the assigned squawk code into the transponder control panel and the radar extracts the code using a Mode-A interrogation ( or UF5 / UF21 interrogation in case of a Mode S radar / transponder ) . The extracted squawk code can then be used to correlate the radar reply with an aircraft 's flight plan . A number of squawk codes are reserved for generic purposes and emergencies . These codes are used in emergency , or when no flight plan correlation is needed . Some generic codes are : 1000 - Conspicuity code signalling the Flight Data Processing system to use Mode-S Aircraft ID for flight plan correlation . ( Primarily in Europe ) 1200 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( USA &amp; Canada ) 2000 - Used when entering a Secondary Surveillance Area and no code has yet been assigned . 7000 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( ICAO , USA &amp; Canada use 1200 instead ) 7500 - Unlawful interference / hijack ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7600 - Radio communication lost ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7700 - General emergency ( ICAO , worldwide )
Some <URL> databases are <URL> and require a USB port . Since navigational databases are updated frequently and require a simple way to make an update , USB ( or memory card slots ) are generally used to allow for rapid and easy updates without having to remove any panels . In some cases the port may be in the avionics bay however that is usually easily accessed as well . It should be noted that a recent change in regulation now allows pilots to update nav data , <URL> . Was it really intended for charging devices like phones ? That seems naively insecure . Generally these ports are not for charging but the basic design of a USB port more or less always allows you to charge from it because of the nature of the port . The security on the ports is more about cockpit security . In most cases the security lies in making it difficult to get into the cockpit in the first place . It is often assumed now that if you are in the cockpit you should be there . There is of course many questions this opens up some of which have been answered here or would be good to ask about . As iPads become more common in the cockpit for navigation and the such USB ports are <URL> for charging but this seems to be more common in GA planes currently .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
end question
start question
Are approach and departure procedures based on visual reference points official VFR procedures ?
Yes , they are official , this is the <URL> approach plate : <URL> I ca n't find a " East Channel Departure " but if you know what airport it belongs to , you can find it in the Terminal Procedures publication , either in paper form or <URL> . They are not VFR procedures , but rather visual IFR procedures . The MALL VISUAL would not be assigned to a VFR flight . Some airports do have special arrival/departure procedures which apply to VFR flights ; these can be found in the Airport/Facilities Directory ( A/FD ) or on a website like <URL> ( for the US anyway ) .
A diverse departure is a default departure procedure , named " omnidirectional " by ICAO . To answer your question : It is normally not published . The only thing that is required on aeronautical publications is a wording preventing or limiting the use of this procedure . BUCKLEY AFB ( KBKF ) , AURORA , CO TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES 11013 Diverse departure not authorized . Use published departure procedures for obstacle avoidance . Sometimes there is a reminder that it can be used : CANNON AFB ( KCVS ) , CLOVIS , NM TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES ORIG 15064 Diverse departure authorized all runways . This default procedure is valid only when : Not explicitly prohibited , There is at least one instrument approach for the airport No obstacle departure procedure ( ODP ) and No standard departure ( SID ) has been published for the airport . A diverse departure is conducted this way : Cross the runway end at 35 ft , maintain heading and a 200 ft/NM gradient until 400 ft above the runway end . The 200 ft/NM gradient is TERPS ' minimum climb gradient , and corresponds to ICAO 's 3.3 % for the minimum procedure design gradient . Continue or turn in any direction while maintaining a minimum rate of climb of 200 ft/NM . Maintain this rate of climb until reaching a 1,000 ft obstacle clearance or a 2,000 ft obstacle clearance in mountainous areas . <URL> <URL> The 40:1 ratio ( 152 ft/NM ) delimits a surface from the runway end , named the obstacle clearance surface ( OCS ) . The diverse departure ensures being above the OCS until enroute . Whenever the conditions exist for a diverse departure , it is implicit ATC authorities have assessed the absence of obstacle above the OCS . This assessment is named the diverse departure assessment . Given the 40:1 slope and obstacle clearances , the area assessed may have a radius from 25 to 46 NM .
In the specific situation of a pilot who is the subject of an FAA investigation , the Pilot 's Bill of Rights requires that air traffic data ( which includes audio recordings ) be provided to the pilot . They would be expected to make the request directly to the FAA . There is a <URL> : To ensure that relevant air traffic data you are seeking from a government contractor are obtained , you should provide the following information : a. Your name and your airman certificate number ; b. other relevant information ( aircraft heading , altitude , call sign , transponder code , etc. ) that will help the contractor locate relevant data ; c. the name/location of the contractor facility that you believe has air traffic data ; d. the date and local time of day when such data relevant to the your flight operation were generated ; e. the name of the FAA inspector , investigator or other FAA official ( e.g. , an air traffic controller who advises you about a possible pilot deviation ) who notified you that you are under investigation ; f. the airman 's phone number or email The individual should provide that information to the FAA by email to the following address : AirmenDataRequest@faa.gov . The instructions include a warning about timeliness : Depending on the type of data , they will normally be stored from 5 to 45 days and then they are destroyed or discarded in the normal course of business I do n't have any information about the general case , though I imagine it depends on the facility and their workload .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
Windshear , yes . Seismic events , no . Most major U.S. airports have a <URL> -- Low-level Windshear Alert System , which is essentially an array of anemometers around the airport which detect wind speed and direction . The values from each station are processed by a computer that uses algorithms to detect a windshear or microburst event , and it notifies controllers in the tower . As a simple example , if the anemometers around the perimeter of the airport are all pointing toward the center of the airport , that 's a strong indication that there is a microburst over the center of the airport , with air descending into the ground and then spreading out in all directions . Obviously , the algorithms can detect cases beyond just that . And , many airports supplement that system with <URL> as well . Regardless of how they 're generated ( LLWAS with anemometers , Doppler , pilot reports , visual observations of blowing dust , etc ) , the warnings are broadcast by the tower controllers , rather than by any automatic system . In the aircraft , aural warnings from the GPWS ( reactive windshear -- noting changes in groundspeed and sink ) and the EGPWS ( predictive windshear -- returns from the aircraft weather radar ) are automatic , but they do n't block a radio frequency . Automated alerts over the tower frequency might block an even more important transmission , so it 's left to the controller 's judgement when to broadcast the alerts . ( They 're usually pretty prompt ! ) No airport I 'm aware of has a system similar to what the OP described for seismic events . I would assume that the risks to a high-speed train from an imminent earthquake -- i.e. the train may derail at high speed with catastrophic results -- are far greater than the risks to aircraft . I 've never read anything about what happens when you 're landing or taking off in an earthquake , but I 'd doubt that anything other than the most severe would have much effect . And if the earth is shifting enough that you ca n't keep the aircraft on the runway , well , it 's a really bad day for pretty much everybody in that state that day !
Such information is not available , for free , on a world wide level . If you are willing to spend some money , you should have a look at <URL> , which provides such information on a world wide level , for hobby use . However , most countries now make their AIP publically available on the internet . Simply search for " [ country name ] AIP " to look up an AIP for a specific country . In any AIP , you want to look at part 3 of the ENR section . Usually ENR 3.1 , ENR 3.2 or ENR 3.3 . Here is an example of from AIP Denmark : <URL> This information is digital , official , up to date , free and in WGS84 format . However , you will have to look it up for every country . If you are looking for a visual overview of airways and RNAV routes in Europe , a good place to start is the <URL> . You should also check out <URL>
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
I think you 're overlooking the primary reason pilots fly instrument approaches : the conditions do not permit flight by visual reference . The fact that a PAPI provides vertical guidance is more or less useless if you ca n't see it . Most ILS approaches involve a descent of at least 1500 ' from glideslope intercept . If you break out from the clouds at ILS minimums , you can be as low as 200 ' above the runway surface ; at 3 ° , that 's around 3/4 miles from the touchdown zone and the PAPI . It 's highly unlikely that the PAPI would be visible prior to that point , meaning the approach would be made with purely lateral guidance .
A major advantage is standardization . An aircraft can be given a <URL> , and assuming everything goes to plan , everyone involved will be on the same page as to what is going to happen . When air traffic control instructs an aircraft to fly a departure procedure , a large volume of information ( e.g. climb to this altitude , turn this way , turn that way , etc. . . ) can be communicated just by giving the name of the procedure . This is far more convenient and predictable for both the crew and controllers than giving every instruction individually . This allows controllers to focus on preventing conflicts and dealing with abnormal situations rather than issuing routine instructions , and it reduces the risk those instructions may be miscommunicated or misunderstood . The procedure itself will have been developed by specialists based on all sorts of criteria , among them : Obstacle clearance . This can be anything from the huge mountain range near the airport to buildings to towers to anything else . The procedure can be designed with a required minimum rate of climb , and pilots can ensure they are able to meet that requirement to climb over any obstacles . Obstacles might also be virtual , such as restricted areas for military purposes . Noise abatement . Communities in the vicinity of airports often have noise complaints . Departure procedures can be designed to direct aircraft away from noise sensitive areas . Traffic flow . Near a busy airport , large numbers of aircraft are maneuvering at low altitudes . Standardizing departure and arrival flows along certain corridors allows air traffic control to deal with aircraft moving in predictable ways and avoids potential conflict between different aircraft . Departure procedures help ensure separation between arriving and departing aircraft . Regional traffic flows . In congested airspace where several busy airports are located in close proximity , procedures can be developed to ensure that traffic to and from each airport are kept separated . A good example is the busy airspace around New York City , where <URL> are used to separate traffic into the region 's airports . Winds . Different runways may be used depending on wind conditions . There may be different departure procedures available for different runway configurations and/or universal departure procedures that have different instructions depending on the runway used . Navigational aids . While modern <URL> procedures are now available , traditional departure procedures guide aircraft from the runway through routes navigable through NAVAIDS like <URL> and <URL> onto established <URL> . Of course , an aircraft flying a departure procedure can always be given instructions to deviate from that procedure if it becomes necessary , such as for other traffic . If conditions permit , it 's also possible for a controller to give a " shortcut " by circumventing part of the procedure , perhaps by turning early toward the next waypoint on the flight 's filed route .
Not officially , no . The official approaches are available in a PDF format to download for 20 CAD for each volume . However , <URL> claims to provide free , up-to-date charts : In cooperation with Nav Canada , FltPlan.com is pleased to announce free Canadian Approach Plates , also know as CAP ( Canada Air Pilot ) . These online charts include all instrument approaches , airport diagrams , SIDs , STARs , and special use approach plates for Canadian Airports . They work similarly to the already available U.S. approach plates . CAP is an extension of FltPlan.com 's continuously expanding coverage of Canada , Mexico , Latin America and the Caribbean . In May of this year , we expanded our coverage to include the filing of IFR intra-Canada flight plans . The availability of free , online Canadian Approach Plates brings a new level of safety and convenience for pilots in the planning stages of their trip . Though I have not seen anything from Nav Canada stating that this is " in cooperation with Nav Canada " , they do <URL> of paper charts . Note <URL> warns that these charts shall not be printed as a replacement for " proper " paper charts -- I am not sure whether these are deemed to be official or not , but it is rather unlikely .
I 'm not sure if ' most ' airports have this design . I 've seen both cases ( i.e. departures below arrivals and the other way around ) . Atleast for small airports , a few reasons come to mind for having departures above arrivals : If arrivals is on ground floor , the baggage can come easily from the aircraft . This reduces complexity , especially in small airports . Most of the aircraft are boarded using jet bridge - makes sense if they are boarded from first floor ( or above ) ; of course , jet bridges can also be used for disembarking , so this is questionable . The upper floor offers a good view to enjoy while shopping or eating . This maybe the reason as more time is spent in departure . Also , if the arrival is in ground floor , one can simply ' walk out ' as no checks are there ( international flights are a different case ) . None of these arguments are convincing , I guess .
Path/slope visual indicators are usually located on the left side of the runway ( as seen when approaching ) , but may be on the right side when impractical . Good reasons for moving the aid on the right side : Obstacle clearance , terrain , intersecting runways or taxiways . Interference may occur on the left side , between PAPI lights and nearby lights . This is emphasized in FAA <URL> : " Because PAPI system is dependent upon the pilot seeing a red and/or white signal from the light units , care should be taken to assure that no other lights are located close enough to the system to interfere with the signal presentation . " Installing them on both sides is beyond ICAO recommendations and FAA orders , but can be done : For visibility improvement In order to give better roll guidance Some countries do n't implement ICAO rules the same way , for instance in the UK , PAPI for governmental airports " may be provided on both sides of the runway " ( <URL> ) For airports providing a visual guidance for <URL> operations . The PAPI associated with the steeper approach path may be located on the right side of the runway ( <URL> ) . <URL> PAPI at the usual location , on the left side of the runway ( <URL> ) . From <URL> : The international standard for PAPI is published by the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) in Aerodromes , Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation , Volume 1 , Chapter 5 . National regulations generally adopt the standards and recommended practices published by ICAO . From <URL> : The basic PAPI configuration is described in chapter 1 , section 2 , paragraph 16 , and is shown in figure 5-1 . All lamphousing assemblies ( LHA 's ) should be located on the left side of the runway , as viewed from the approach direction . However , where terrain , cross runways , or taxiways make this arrangement impractical , the light units may be located on the right side of the runway . [ ... ] The VISUAL APPROACH SLOPE INDICATOR ( VASI ) system is no longer installed by the FAA as a new facility . Specific details and installation criteria have been moved to Appendix E to provide technical support for existing VASI equipment and facilities . [ ... ] The basic VASI configurations are described in appendix D , section 1 , paragraph 1 and shown in figures 1 , 2 , 4 , and 5 . All boxes ( or light units ) of the two-box ; four-box , and six-box configurations are located on the left side of the runway ( as viewed from the approach direction ) . However , where terrain or cross runways , etc. , make this impractical , they may be located on the right side of the runway . <URL> offer several location variations , chosen for practical reasons . There is a PAPI on the left side for runway 1C and <URL> , but a reverse scheme is used for 1R/19L , and 1L/19R is just standard : <URL>
Outlook VFR is usually found in the so called " Area Forecast " . It is the last part of the portion which describes clouds and weather , which could affect VFR operations . The area forecast for every region is valid for 12 hours , followed by a 6 hour categorical outlook . There are three types of outlooks , VFR , IFR and MVFR ( marginal VFR ) . As mentioned in <URL> : A ceiling less than 1,000 feet and/or visibility less then 3 miles is considered IFR . Marginal VFR areas are those with ceilings from 1,000 to 3,000 feet and/or visibility between 3 and 5 miles . Everything " better " ( as in higher ceiling and/or visibility ) is considered VFR . Here is an extract from an Area Forecast : The first part is an extract from the Heading Section . here you find the time for which the Clouds and Weather part as well as the Outlook part is valid . The second part consist of the mentioned Clouds and Weather as well as the Outlook . I 'm not going to decipher the whole thing now , but here is a short explanation : You can see the more detailed forecast , valid from the time of loading the Area Forecast to , which means the 6th of the month , 21:00 Zulu time . After that , from so from the 6th at 21:00 Zulu until the 7th at 03:00 Zulu , the outlook is what counts . In this case it is VFR until the 7th of the month at 02:00 Zulu , where showers and thunderstorms ( in connection with rain ) are expected . Conclusion : The outlook gives a general idea what the weather will be like up to 6 hours after the forecast part of the Are Forecast . This can help in flight planning . For more information about VFR refer to <URL> .
They mean an <URL> - Instrument Landing System . An ILS consist of : A localizer component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway centerline . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are left or right . A glideslope component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway surface on the ground . Typical glide slope angle is 3 degrees . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are high or low . An ILS is usually coupled with an DME ( Distance Measure Equipment ) , which tells the distance between the aircraft and the runway threshold . Using the glideslope angle together with the horizontal distance , one can compute the height above runway level . From page 12 of the report : AC624 was then cleared for the straight-in LOC approach ... Which means only the lateral ( left or right ) component is available , there is no signal which tells the pilot whether they are high or low relative to the ideal descent path . A radio altimeter is not very useful when the approach path leading to the runway has uneven terrain . It tells the height above the ground directly under the aircraft . A barometric altimeter needs to be calibrated by a reading at ground level . It tells the height above sea level . Both of these altimeters can not tell the height above runway level . Therefore the pilots must rely on other data to monitor the descent profile , which increases the pilots ' workload . In a situation such as low visibility and high crosswinds , this presents a very challenging situation . If both vertical and horizontal guidance is available , then the pilots can simply follow this guidance all the way to the runway . They can also program the autopilot to follow this guidance , if suitable equipment is installed on the ground as well as onboard the aircraft . <URL> Note the green bars : one is horizontal and one is vertical . They form a cross on the display . If the horizontal bar is up a little bit , the pilot would pull up a bit . If the vertical bar is to the right , the pilot would turn right a bit . These green bars only possible when ILS is used . It is possible to compute the relative height by using a DME and a barometric altimeter only . For example , I am now 5.5 nautical miles from the runway threshold , and according to the approach chart , I should be at 1,800 feet . Right now my altimeter reads 1,600 feet . That means I am too low and I should reduce my vertical speed to slow down my descent . This calculation has to be done by the pilot himself and not by a computer . Furthermore the pilot must fly the plane , i.e. adjust the control surfaces , run landing checklists , visually verify the alignment with the runway , talk to ATC , set the flaps etc. . A pilot is trained to do all this , but increased workload also increases the chance of making an error .
I think Saftey guy asks about features like the escape hatch from the <URL> . Probably there is something similiar on the A380 : <URL> I think that I can read the label Escape Rope on the cover of at the top right . You can look around inside the cockpit <URL> .
Assuming we are speaking of axial compressors/turbines Compressor blades are generally thin and straight , and resemble a tiny rectangular wing with low camber thickness . Image <URL> Turbine blades are more curved , often in almost " U " shapes ( like the ones seen <URL> ) . In particularly large and recent engines , where efficiency is critical , turbine blades will often be full of tiny holes : Image <URL> To distinguish between high pressure and low pressure stages ( compressor or turbine does not matter ) , the length of the blade and its torsion ( i.e. how much the aerodynamic profile turns around the axis of the blade going from the root to the tip ) are key : shorter and more twisted blades will be high pressure ones , longer and straighter blades will be low pressure . Note that two blades of the same length could come one from a high pressure stage and the other from a low pressure one of a different engine : " short " and " long " are relative to the engine size . On the other hand , radial compressors and radial turbines are more difficult to distinguish .
8083-16 , dated 2014 , is current version , superseded 8261-1A . It is stated in <URL> . For future reference , the FAA page you linked in the question is best resource available .
From Anne Graham 's book , <URL> : This charging mechanism uses the ' ability to pay ' principles , since airlines using larger aircraft are in a better position to pay higher charges . Some costs such as runway wear and tear do increase with weight and also larger aircraft require vortex separations , which can reduce the number of aircraft movements during a certain period . Overall , however , there is not a strong relationship between aircraft weight and airfield cost . A flat rate landing charge for all aircraft types may be more appropriate , particularly at congested airports . This is because the cost of occupying the congested runway is movement related and independent of aircraft size . Each aircraft movement will consume the same resource .
Yes , they are official , this is the <URL> approach plate : <URL> I ca n't find a " East Channel Departure " but if you know what airport it belongs to , you can find it in the Terminal Procedures publication , either in paper form or <URL> . They are not VFR procedures , but rather visual IFR procedures . The MALL VISUAL would not be assigned to a VFR flight . Some airports do have special arrival/departure procedures which apply to VFR flights ; these can be found in the Airport/Facilities Directory ( A/FD ) or on a website like <URL> ( for the US anyway ) .
Not just helicopters . It happens all the time in my neck of the woods ( Alaska ) in small planes with big bouncy tires . We probably have more " field landings " ( called bush landings , or " off airport operations " ) than landings at actual airports . OK , well maybe not quite that many - but enough that my local aviation college has an entire semester course dedicated to it for it 's professional piloting program . The first act is usually a low pass to inspect the conditions and determine the best landing direction ( if there is more than one option ) , assuming that the winds will allow it . If there are other aircraft in the area , which sometimes happens at popular hunting/fishing/floating drop-off locations or glacier tours , then self-announcing on frequency is done like at a non-towered airport . But , it 's usually remote enough that it 's not done . Quite frequently , it 's two planes for one party 's charter - one to carry the people , and one to carry their gear . In that case , they 're usually talking to each other the whole way , and know each other 's intentions anyway .
end question
start question
On a " Visual Approach " , do I execute a " missed approach " or do I go around ?
First , a caution : IFR procedures can ( and do ) vary between countries . It is incumbent on the pilot to study the respective authority 's Aeronautical Information Publication ( AIP ) to understand local procedures before flight . When asking questions about instrument flight procedures , it is helpful to know which countries you are specifically traveling through . While the vast majority of countries simply adopt ICAO procedures , many have significant deviations ( the United States included ) . <URL> , section 6.5.3 discusses instrument flight that terminates into a visual approach . Interestingly , the document is silent on what happens if the approach is aborted . In the United States , the FAA is more explicit . In the <URL> , section 5-4-23 visual approaches are specifically addressed . Paragraph ( e ) details what should happen if a visual approach is terminated : A visual approach is not an IAP and therefore has no missed approach segment . If a go around is necessary for any reason , aircraft operating at controlled airports will be issued an appropriate advisory/clearance/instruction by the tower . At uncontrolled airports , aircraft are expected to remain clear of clouds and complete a landing as soon as possible . If a landing can not be accomplished , the aircraft is expected to remain clear of clouds and contact ATC as soon as possible for further clearance . Separation from other IFR aircraft will be maintained under these circumstances .
Landing at a US military base is n't all that hard ( I 've landed at Ft. Drum before ) , you just have to get prior permission ( PPR ) ( submitted at least 30 days in advance and confirmed within 24 hours according to 32 CFR 855.8 ) , and need to have a " good reason " ( as determined by them ) . <URL> ( which is quite long ) includes the purposes that are normally allowed . You will be required to submit the following forms to the base commander ( See the A/FD ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> contains the regulations pertaining to US Air Force airfields ( and the rules are similar for each branch ) . 855.1 - Policy includes : ( 1 ) Normally , landing permits will be issued only for civil aircraft operating in support of official Government business . Other types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances . Access will be granted on an equitable basis . ... ( 3 ) Any aircraft operator with an inflight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization . An inflight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight hazardous . 855.5 - Responsibilities and authorities . includes : ( 6 ) Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields : ( i ) In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already available in the private sector . Note : Use to conduct business with or for the US Government is not considered as competition with civil airports . ( ii ) Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator . ( iii ) Solely for transient aircraft servicing . ( iv ) By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airworthiness standards . ( v ) That selectively promotes , benefits , or favors a specific commercial venture unless equitable consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances . ( vi ) For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts . ( vii ) Solely for customs-handling purposes . ( viii ) When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway is restricted from use by all aircraft .
Pilots are not required to give a reason for a go-around , just to say that they are going around . A go-around is a busy time for the pilot ( s ) of the aircraft - power , flaps , trim , must be set , gear raised in some cases . The pilot needs to aviate first . The tower wants to know why the go-around was initiated by the pilot as it may be relevant for safety and/or operations . If the pilot is going around because of a botched approach then that wo n't impact other flights , however if there is a problem with the aircraft the tower can organize emergency resources . If the go-around is due to a situation on the ground then the tower can look to clear that up .
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
Unlike Space Shuttle , Buran could cary <URL> jet engines . The testing version had four such engines and used to take off and then fly under own power during the tests . Hence it so should have been capable of go-around . The powered landing increased the safety of Buran in comparison to Space Shuttle ( <URL> ) . <URL> it is possible to find the description of the jet engine system of Buran . This source names the engines as АЛ-31Ф ( Su-33 has the same ) . It says two engines were foreseen for the space going version , and this would have not been sufficient to take off under own power . Each engine had the maximal thrust of 7770 <URL> ( afterburners were removed ) . The two extra engines of the take of - capable prototype were more powerful ( 12500 kgf ) . The source also says jet that engines were not installed during the only space flight 15 November 1988 while there were non-functional engine controls in the cockpit . The engines were not ready yet . Hence most likely the sources OP references talk about some go-around of the mentioned four - engine testing prototype , not about the go-around of the Buran returning from space . The space going version of the Buran space shuttle was not capable of go around maneuver .
Yes , there is other signals broadcasted by aircraft , although not by all . In the General Aviation sector , at least in Europe , an on-board device known as <URL> is being used mostly in Gliders , Helicopters , Single-Engine Piston aircraft and touring motor gliders . FLARM is an electronic device to selectively alert pilots to potential collisions between aircraft . It is not formally an implementation of ADS-B , as it is optimised for the specific needs of small aircraft such as gliders , not for long-range communication or ATC interaction . You can <URL> and you can also feed the data to sites like flightradar . Related Answers to FLARM : <URL> <URL>
Shhhhhh , here is the biggest secret of aviation : It 's actually quite easy to become a pilot . You can actually get your private certificate before you are allowed to drive ! <URL> . When most people think of piloting small general aviation aircraft , they are thinking about the <URL> certificate . Part 141 is the most common route for that . The hardest part is being able to pass the FAA physical , but keep in mind that as a private ( or even recreational ) pilot , you do n't need to get a Class I , just a Class III . To become an airline ( ATP ) or military pilot does require a great deal more work and training , but I think that may be beyond the scope of your question . The best advice is to go to the local airfield or FBO and find a flight school . Good luck .
I go through the SAFETY checklist with all my passengers . <URL> Seat Belts - This is where they are and how to use them . Air Vents - Here are the air vents and how to use them Fire - In case of a fire here is the location of the fire extinguisher and this is how you use it . PASS method . Exits , Emergencies and Equipment - Here are the exits on the airplane and here is how to open the door . Know that you are in good hands and that I have been well trained to land safely under most situations . If for some reason an emergency occurs in flight follow my directions . If we need to land off the airport , I will ask you to pop open the door just before landing to ensure we can exit the airplane safely . Here is any safety equipment that you may want to use on this flight . i.e. supplemental oxygen . Traffic and talking - Please point out an traffic that you see and I will do the same . Please no talking while I am on the radio . Once we start taxiing to the runway please remain quiet til we are far enough away from the airport . I will let you know when it is safe to talk again . When we come in to land , I will ask that you remain quiet , unless an emergency situation occurs , till after the landing is complete and we are taxiing back to parking . Your questions - Do you have any questions ? Alright , lets go have some fun ! <URL>
<URL> gives the following limitations for A318 steep approaches : Maximum authorised Flight Path Angle : -5.5 ° MLW unchanged ( 57.5 t ) FWD and AFT CG limits unchanged Maximum altitude for landing : 2000ft Tailwind limit for landing : 5Kt Crosswind limit for landing : 26Kt gust included AUTOLAND is not allowed CATII and CATIII are not allowed All engines operative only
The initial assignment has been made when you 're hired , and you 'll be sent to either Enroute or Terminal training . The split there occurs as they 're hiring to fill a class , or just sending out names to facilities to pick from , or some other factor that they keep changing . The terminal option I believe they 'll say class x will get to choose between the following facilities in order of how well they did in class . ( How facilities get assigned is changed a lot , and I 'm not positive how they 're currently assigned ) . If you go to a tower or a Tower/Tracon ( up/down facility ) , then you 'll go to the academy for the tower initial class . If you get assigned to a TRACON , you 'll go to a tracon dedicated class . Enroute goes to an Enroute class . Each has their own lengths . If you 're at an Tower/TRACON combined facility , you 'll go through the Tower course in Oklahoma , and then go to your facility and get trained in the tower , once done there , you 'll then be sent to Oklahoma again for the Radar course , and return to your facility for training in the TRACON . A career in the US ATC system is generally what you make it . Enroute people generally stay at their centers , they do n't move facilities as much , mainly as they 're at the upper level facilities and at the top of the pay levels . People in the terminal environment move a lot more . In the past to move to the highest level towers , they often wanted to see a radar certification , or some other way to differentiate candidates . But things have changed recently , and I 'm not sure how they 're picking candidates fully now . Also you can changed tracks , from Terminal to Enroute or vice versa , but it 's generally a less common move .
Yes , you can , you do n't need anything other than the words to be visible by the passenger . Your PPL is fine for flying experimentals , although like any other aircraft change , I would get instruction from an experienced instructor in that type/model before going solo . Experimental aircraft can have some pretty different handling characteristics . So , from a regulations standpoint , you are looking for <URL> . According to ( j ) of that : No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113 ( i ) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 6 occupants . So you can have up to 6 occupants ( including the pilot ) . Do I need something special if I wanted to buy one of these planes ? No , your PPL allows you to fly experimentals , but as I said above , please get training from an instructor familiar with the aircraft and its handling characteristics . Many dear departed pilots probably wished in the last moments that they had some formal training in the experimentals they bought . You should also get somebody to go over the aircraft mechanically that is familiar with that model . Also look into your insurance costs , the airplane may be cheaper , but your insurance will probably be more expensive .
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
The airspace around the world is divided into sectors within a <URL> ( FIR ) / Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) / <URL> ( ACC ) , which range from very small and tight airspace pieces to larger combinations or enroute sectors . Enroute sectors will usually be larger than <URL> ( TMA ) . During peak-hours , these sectors will be handled by one controller responsible for each sector . If capacity and traffic flow permit , these sectors can be combined and two sectors will be handled by the same controller . Below is a picture of the Paderborn Lower Sector , ranging from GND to FL135 . This is usually a stand-alone sector which only covers approaches to Paderborn ( EDLP ) and Dortmund Airports ( EDLW ) . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) If traffic permits , the adjacent sector Hamm Lower from GND to FL115 , handling arrivals and departures to Münster ( EDDG ) , will be handed over to the controller responsible for Paderborn Lower . This can also be done vice-versa , where the Hamm Lower controller becomes responsible for the Paderborn Lower sector . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) TMA controllers not only handle IFR aircraft approaching or departing from airfields within their sector , but also any enroute traffic crossing the sector , VFR traffic requesting to cross airspaces which require prior permission and other tasks . <URL> , controllers take breaks between working their sectors and sometimes often switch sectors during a shift . A controller working Paderborn Lower during the beginning of his shift can end up working Hamm Lower towards the end of his shift with adequate breaks in between their sessions . See this related question : <URL>
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
While still in the airspace , you should contact the controller if you can , since it may be important to safety . After landing , you may get the dreaded phone number from a controller ( probably tower or ground ) which you 're supposed to call and speak with someone from the FAA . You should not volunteer any information about the incident during this call without talking to a lawyer or AOPA legal services first . Then , most importantly , fill out a report in the <URL> . Any information you submit will not be used against you in an enforcement action by the FAA , and in many cases , people who volunteer information through the system receive much softer treatment , and sometimes forgo enforcement all together . The reason the FAA incentivizes this self-reporting is so they can better collect information about accidents which inevitably happen . If they know why you accidentally strayed into the bravo , maybe they can improve procedures or charts to help keep other pilots from making the same mistakes .
Neither technique is " preferable " - the assumption that one is superior to the other is one of the most common <URL> ( and over-simplifications ) in aviation . With some notable exceptions ( like the Ercoupe which is incapable of a slip and lands crabbed ) a proper crosswind landing should involve elements of both techniques . Crabbing Crabbing involves turning the nose into the wind so that some component of the aircraft 's thrust is counteracting the crosswind , allowing the aircraft 's ground track to align with the runway . Advantages Flying on final it is advantageous to crab into the wind : It is aerodynamically more favorable than a slip , and as the aircraft is kept coordinated it is more comfortable for passengers than a slip . Pilots often find a crab subjectively " easier " to maintain for extended periods of time compared to a slip : It does not require the pilot to maintain " crossed controls " , and it 's similar to how we maintain our course in other phases of flight ( you were probably crabbing into the wind on downwind just a few seconds ago , and on instrument approaches flying the localizer in a crab is analogous to tracking a VOR on the enroute portion of your flight ) . Disadvantages On touchdown however landing in a crab will put a side-load on the landing gear ( the aircraft is traveling along the runway centerline , but the gear is not aligned with that direction of travel ) . In extreme cases this can damage the tires , cause difficulty controlling the aircraft , and possibly even damage the landing gear assembly itself . " Kicking out the crab " to align the landing gear with the runway requires an abrupt control movement at low altitude ( generally not a good thing ) , and if done too early the crosswind will begin to blow the aircraft across the runway ( leading to a landing that 's not on the centerline , a side-load on the gear , and in the worst case an unintended departure from the runway surface . Slipping Slipping involves banking the aircraft so that some portion of the wing 's lift is counteracting the crosswind . Ordinarily the aircraft would tend to turn in the direction of the bank , so opposite rudder is applied to prevent the aircraft from turning and maintain the ground track parallel to the runway . Advantages Touching down on the runway a slip has the advantage of allowing you to align your landing gear with your direction of travel ( down the runway ) and avoid side-loading the gear . It also allows you to touch down on the upwind landing gear first which helps to stabilize the early roll-out , and positions your ailerons appropriately for taxiing with the crosswind . Disadvantages Slipping down final however is likely to make your passengers uncomfortable - the plane is slanted in one direction , the rudder is pushing the nose around in the other direction , and folks start to feel like their butt is sliding out of the seat . Aside from passenger comfort a slip is a terribly inefficient aerodynamic arrangement ( you 're essentially trying to fly sideways ) , and not a " normal " way to fly in other phases of flight . You may have difficulty estimating the aircraft 's performance and require power to maintain your glide path in this configuration . Combining the techniques So a crab is advantageous on final ( and flying an instrument approach ) , and a slip is advantageous on touchdown . It logically follows that the two techniques can be combined to provide the advantages of both : Crab down final ( or on the localizer ) . At some point transition into a slip . Exactly where you make this transition is pilot preference , but the transition should be smooth , simultaneously bringing the nose around to align with the runway while banking into the wind to counteract the crosswind component . Touch down in the slip . Complete your rollout with the appropriate crosswind aileron deflection , controlling your ground track with the rudder as needed to prevent weathervaning .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
Not likely . Pilots wear headphones , so we can not hear the idle prattle of the pax in the hold . In any case , we do n't take orders from passengers . Think about that for a second : would you like it if aircraft pilots followed the instructions of a crazy screaming passenger ? What if there were TWO crazy screaming passengers giving contradictory commands ? Which one should we obey ? In any case , nowadays cockpit doors are closed during flight anyway . <URL>
In general , you get one free go-around . First of all , any checkride which involves short-field landings probably also involves demonstrating go-arounds . If you do n't do one on your own , your examiner will have to ask to see one later . Going around when it 's obvious you 're not going to make your point demonstrates good judgment . It shows that you 're not going to try to force the airplane into an unsafe situation just to hit your mark . If the runway you 're landing on really is a short field , continuing the landing attempt would not only be a bad idea , it would be unsafe , and the examiner would be correct in taking the controls from you , as well as failing you . If the runway is long and you 're simulating a short field landing , the same applies . If you go around on a short-field landing and then go around on the next one as well , the examiner is going to start to wonder whether you really know what you 're doing . Let 's face it , it should not take you three tries to get properly set up for a short field landing , unless perhaps if the day is remarkably turbulent or there is a strong gusty crosswind . If that 's the case , though , why in the world did you decide to take your checkride in those conditions ?
Current RVR is obtained from the METAR , yes , which in turn is obtained from <URL> on the airport site . Minimum allowable RVR is obtained from charts ( <URL> ) , more specifically the <URL> for approaching an airport . And on the <URL> chart for departing . Example : <URL> R is RVR in hundreds of feet , V is Visibility in miles , in this example . Units can change and will be denoted , check full PDF for all examples .
end question
start question
Which airliners could survive an EMP pulse ?
Older airliners use hydraulics and cables attached to the pilot controls . Some RATs power the hydraulics directly as well so limited control is still possible then . The pilots would get a workout but the plane would safely touch down . However planes with entirely fly-by-wire systems ( no current airliner is completely fly-by-wire ) will be completely uncontrollable apart from shifting weight and would glide to the ground . They are made stable so they wo n't just enter a spin and pancake into the ground .
Can the coil and capacitor ( condenser ) magneto/spark plug ignition system as exists on most general aviation aircraft survive an EMP ? Like anything it depends on the EMP 's strength , the angle of incident to the device and the device in question . The various things in an aircraft will break down for different reasons . But for the rest of this lets assume an EMP that is sufficient to fry stuff . A magneto will suffer toasted coils as the induced current could potentially generate enough heat to degrade the <URL> on coils . It should however be noted that the magneto is more than likely shielded to prevent interference with avionics which will play out in your favor here . How about most turbine engines ? I 'll use a PT-6 as an example . I assume the FADEC would be toast ? Most likely yes . Again the unit is generally housed at <URL> but modern PCB components do n't play nice with large induced currents . Turbines do have an <URL> depending on the severity . How about other parts of the electrical system such as the battery ? Things like interior lights will most likely blow out , batteries ( depending on type and casing ) could go . Overheating is a concern if enough current is forced over the line . Is there any data or research on this ? There is some <URL> out there that cover it for the military . <URL> . You can find <URL> . There was a lot of research on this that pertains to missile systems as one anti-missile defense was to detonate a nuke in front of the oncoming unit . If the blast did not take it out the resulting EM field would fry what ever guidance and control systems were on board ( assuming it was not ballistic ) . As such , work went into making the units EMP hardened . I 'm not sure that work is very public though . The soviets were <URL> as they believed them to be far less susceptible to EMP 's . It looks like <URL>
This is not implemented anywhere in the world . <URL> : As of 2012 this category is not yet in operation anywhere in the world as it requires guidance to taxi in zero visibility as well . Category IIIc is not mentioned in EU-OPS . <URL> : As far as I know NO airport in the world currently offers catIIIc as it has the most ridiculous minima both in the horizontal and vertical plane ...
The minimum speed of a <URL> is 43 knots while the maximum speed is 110 knots . If the wing area is reduced to one half of its original size , and we accelerate to twice the minimum speed , the induced drag is half as much as that of the original airplane at minimum speed ( but still eight times higher than that of the original airplane at the same speed ! ) . Dynamic pressure scales with the square of airspeed , so it grows by a factor of four . Lift coefficient and aspect ratio are half as much as before , so the induced drag ( which scales with lift coefficient squared over aspect ratio ) is only half as much . Now to friction drag : If the surface area would remain unchanged , the doubling of speed quadruples the friction drag . Since friction drag is dominant at high speed and the original engine and propeller managed to overcome that drag at 110 knots , it would at most be 61 % of that drag at 86 knots . Engine power is constant over speed and thrust proportional to the inverse of speed , so the excess thrust at 86 knots would be 28 % higher than at maximum speed , leaving an excess thrust for induced drag and acceleration of at least 67 % , which should easily be sufficient for takeoff ( if the runway is long enough ) . I would only be worried about the lack of ailerons - they have been cut off with the outer wing as well . Theoretically , the clipped version should be capable of a higher maximum speed , but that would most likely be limited by tail flutter and dropping propeller efficiency . While clipping half the wing will still render the result somewhat flyable , if more than half of the wing is clipped , I would start to doubt that it can be brought into the air without further modifications . When the Luftwaffe tried to train pilots for the <URL> , they turned to gliders with clipped wings , so their minimum speed would more closely resemble that of the rocket-powered interceptor . The <URL> ( hawk ) aerobatic glider became the Stummelhabicht ( stumpy hawk ) when new wings of reduced span ( from 13.6 m to 8 and later only 6 m ) were fitted . <URL> Stummelhabicht ( picture <URL> ) . It was fun to fly , but all speeds were quite a bit higher than those of the original glider . After all , it was built to prepare pilots for a glider with a landing speed of 200 km/h .
Wind direction mostly , planes take off best when facing in the wind as that means free airspeed so the takeoff roll is shorter . In busier airspace ( with multiple towered airports ) each airport coordinates the corridors so they do n't intersect depending on available runways , prevailing winds and relative demands on the airports . It is possible that it is dictated by noise abatement measures so night time flights pass over a nearby forest rather than wake up the capital .
There is actually quite a lot of information on the subject in the Braeunig web site <URL> . To give the salient points : Liquid-fueled rocket engines Both the nozzle and the combustion chamber itself need to be cooled . Although most of the thermal energy produced is ejected with the exhaust , some of it will indeed push hardware temperatures up if not checked . Techniques include : Regenerative cooling , where the propergols ( both propergols , or just the fuel ) are pumped through a jacket around the nozzle before going into the combustion chamber . This cools down the nozzle , and heats up the propergols that may be cryogenic in nature . This is what was used in the Saturn Vs ' Rocketdyne F-1 engines , and the Space Shuttle main engines . Dump cooling , similar to the above but the fuel used to cool the nozzle is dumped overboard instead of being fed into the combustion chamber and being used as , well , fuel . Film and transpirative cooling , where a thin film of coolant or fuel is created near the chamber wall . Ablative cooling , where part of the combustion chamber or nozzle wall is sacrificed . As the material is melted or otherwise burned away , it absorbs some of the thermal energy , thus saving whatever is behind it . Radiation cooling , where nozzle design is such that heat has time to be evacuated through the part 's exterior wall . This is used mainly in small engines , not main . Solid-fueled rocket engines No information available . Nothing . Zilch . Nada . It would seem that the nozzle and combustion chamber materials just need to be strong enough to withstand the heat from the burning gasses . It is perhaps worthwhile to note that solid rocket engines are designed to burn just one single time , and for a relatively short period of time ( even the Space Shuttle boosters were extensively overhauled before being put back into service , with any necessary parts changed ) . Rocket engines need to withstand working conditions for just minutes , instead of the thousands of hours an A/C jet engine turbine would be expected to work without failure . It would also be reasonable to assume - though this is strictly something I am making up on the go , with much hand waving - that of the techniques described above for liquid-fueled rocket engines , at least two could be easily adapted to solid engines : Film cooling , with an extra tank of cooling liquid on board . Ablative cooling , with some refractive material used to coat the inner surface of the nozzle .
Most of the items you can bring with you to maximize your chances of surviving an in-flight emergency are items you 're not going to be allowed to bring with you . About the only things I could recommend bringing along on a commercial flight are your cellphone and a personal locator beacon ( PLB ) of some kind , but frankly if your airliner goes down ATC is going to know where you were when they lost contact , ( and the plane has an <URL> already ) . You should also wear sensible clothing -- natural fibers like wool or cotton are the order of the day if in-flight fire is a concern . Polyester or other synthetic fabrics will melt to your skin and cause you to have a Bad Time . More directly addressing your question though , the items that spring immediately to my mind ( and why you probably wo n't be taking them with you ) are : A parachute ( what prompted your question ) Sure , you can bring your parachute . It 's kind of a useless security blanket though . From cruise flight you 'd basically be executing a high-altitude jump <URL> . You would require oxygen to remain conscious longer than about 30-45 seconds ( though an automatic-opening chute may save you here ) , as well as protective clothing to survive the low temperatures while you 're free-falling . Those concerns aside , remember that airliner cabins are pressurized and the doors are typically " plug doors " that open inward . No human is strong enough to open that door with the cabin pressurized , and if you 've lost cabin pressure for some reason you 're better off putting on that little drop-down oxygen mask like the nice flight attendant told you to in the safety briefing . You 're not going to save yourself if you pass out from hypoxia while putting on your chute and trying to get to the door . An oxygen mask / smoke hood can be useful in a fire . Most airlines are not going to let you carry an oxygen cylinder onto the plane ( as others pointed out in comments , oxygen and in-flight fires can cause more problems than it solves ) . That holds true for pretty much any kind of compressed gas because really , how do they know what 's in that tank ? A smoke hood using a filter ( or a sealed rebreather hood ) with no compressed air supply may make it past security , but ask yourself honestly : " Am I proficient enough to use an emergency escape smoke hood in an in-flight emergency ? " -- If you ca n't answer " yes " you 're probably putting yourself ( and others ) in more danger wasting time donning the hood versus just getting out of the aircraft . A life vest ( if traveling over water ) This is overkill on an airliner ( though those of us that fly little planes should seriously consider flotation devices when flying over water ) . Your airline seat cushion really CAN be used as a flotation device . Those big yellow slides also detach from the plane and make marvelous floats . Frankly if you need any of these items you 're in a situation where having your own Mae West is n't going to really enhance your chances of survival . A utility knife capable of cutting your seatbelt This is incredibly useful for a bunch of reasons , not just cutting your way out of your seatbelt . In fact I keep one in my plane . Sharp and/or pointy things make airport security nervous though - if you try to take such an item on an airline flight it will likely be taken away from you before you get anywhere near the plane . Food and Water Useful if you have to make an emergency landing in a remote area , but frankly airliners already have beverages ( some may even still have food ) . If you 're carrying a light snack you 're as set as you 're going to be in this department . Emergency Blankets Nice to have , but most commercial aircraft already have shock blankets on board ( and much like food/water , this is really only useful if you have an otherwise uneventful landing in a remote area ) . If it makes you feel better to have your own blanket you can get pre-packed ones that can fit in basically any carry-on for about $ 5-10 . Signal flares Again , mainly useful if you have an emergency landing in a remote area ( and your PLB and the plane 's ELT do n't work for some reason ) . Flares are good both for signaling rescuers and for starting fires to keep warm . I do n't know if rescue flares are still routinely carried on commercial airliners , but I can say with reasonable certainty that you will not be allowed to carry on your own . They do n't let you smoke on most airlines these days - they 're certainly not going to let you carry on a self-igniting flare !
Aircraft rarely collide with any objects . Cameras would only be helpful if the extent of the damage is visible from the outside . Instruments , on the other hand , can be used to diagnostic the problem even if the system fails " internally " . E.g. . Many hydraulic lines and cables run across the wing . If these is damage on the leading edge , is it the slats ? A hydraulic leak on system A ? system B ? Is the de-ice working ? You need instruments to get a better picture . Some aircraft indeed come with cameras . The Boeing 777 has cameras on the bottom of the fuselage and the tail to aid pilots during taxi operations ( the 777 , especially the 777-300 variant , is really long ... ) The Airbus A380 also has a tail mounted camera . Passengers can enjoy a spectacular view of the clouds , the high speed takeoffs and landings : As for mirrors , pilots do n't overtake other planes or back off like drivers do . There really is no need to know what is behind the aircraft . Pushback is accomplished by the tug on the ground , who has a much better view of the area than the pilots .
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
Indeed EASA requires " autopilot " but they do n't state it directly like " every airliner flying in the European airspace must be autopilot equipped " . They require it indirectly . When I first read your post I immediately thought of RVSM . I recall talking to an ATCO ( retired now ) about automation on board , and he told me that without autopilot you can not fly in RVSM airspace . So I had a look in <URL> and they did the dirty job for us . They mention all 3 EASA regulations , , and they have quoted the interesting parts : Regulatory Requirements [ ... ] An operator shall ensure that aeroplanes operated in RVSM airspace are equipped with :[ ... ] An automatic altitude control system Emphasis is mine . There might be other regulations requiring other automatic flight components but I am not aware of them although a quick look in the documents reveals references to auto-land systems as well so these documents cover more than RVSM . The summary is that EASA does not simply specify " you need autopilot if you fly an airliner " but they go into detail , of what they require and for what reason . Acronyms Reduced Vertical Separation Minima Air Traffic Control Officer
It 's possible , but it would be difficult under today 's regulations . Restrictions ( regulations ) : Avoid any controlled airspace that requires talking to ATC For the sake of argument I 'll pretend we have no radio on board , so no class B , C , or D airspace . ( You COULD call the controlling agency and coordinate with them , but let 's just pretend we do n't have a cell phone either . ) Avoid any airspace within a mode C veil Because presumably we do n't have a transponder on board we ca n't cross mode C veils . Avoid any restricted/special use airspace Duh . Comply with any other restrictions noted on the chart I did this in 10 minutes - I may have screwed up a little . Fuel Reserves This is the one that makes it tough . With no wind 110 miles at 40MPH ( the cruise speed ) is ~ 2.75 hours endurance - I assume that 's to empty tanks ( which is how it 's usually quoted for aircraft ) . The FAA requires at least a <URL> , which means we can fly for 2.25 hours ( 90 statute miles , 78.2 nautical miles ) before we need to land . All legs need to be under that . ( It 's possible a flight like this could get a waiver from the FAA , but let 's assume nobody applied for one . ) Restrictions ( Other ) : Refueling Where possible legs should end at airports that have fuel available . ( This is n't a hard " must " since presumably the Wright 1B can burn whatever kind of gasoline we can find once we 're on the ground ) . Airports I 'm excluding private / restricted airports from consideration as landing spots ( again , we 'll pretend our pilot has no cell phone and therefore ca n't coordinate landing access at these fields ) . Simplifying Assumptions : Simple fuel burn Not having numbers for this aircraft I 'm assuming fuel burn will average out such that the aircraft 's endurance on all legs is about 2.75 hours ( 78.2 nautical miles with no wind ) . This simplifies the planning There is no wind ( Or if there is , it 's always a tailwind . ) There 's an aviation GPS ( or something like Foreflight ) onboard Frankly I was n't going to spend an hour looking for landmarks . You could probably manage the flight by dead reckoning if you had to though . The Wright Model B can climb high enough to clear any obstacles/terrain Again , not having numbers for the aircraft ( service/absolute ceiling ) I 'm just making the assumption to simplify things . So if we put all that together can we plan this flight ? <URL> <URL> This is one possible route - there may of course be others I believe I met all the restrictions , if I screwed up I 'm sure someone will edit the flight plan ( or come up with a different route ) . A Note on Performance As I mentioned in the assumptions I did n't have performance data available for the 1B when I laid out this route . Some folks helpfully pointed out in comments that there are <URL> . These do n't appear to be " exact reproduction " replicas , but I was able to find <URL> . Given the maximum altitude in the performance figures ( 2,000 feet MSL ) it would probably not be possible to fly the route plotted above with the reproduction equipment available ( several legs are well above 2,000 feet MSL ) , and I would assume the original 1B had comparable performance .
The safe operations of an aircraft is called <URL> . It is the standard by which an aircraft is determined fit to fly . Responsibility of airworthiness lies with national aviation regulatory bodies , manufacturers , as well as owners and operators . International standards are dictated by <URL> during the <URL> : The International Civil Aviation Organization sets international standards and recommended practices for national authorities to base their regulations on FAA has <URL> governing all aviation activities in the US . EASA also has airworthiness <URL> . The answer to your question is : The aircraft manufacturer makes sure that the aircraft meets existing design standards , defines the operating limitations and maintenance schedules and provides support and maintenance throughout the operational life of the aircraft .
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
An EFB could not be used for this purpose , all your suggestion would do is replicate things that are already done by <URL> ( engine indication and crew alert system ) . The reason for this is that " receiving " , " pre-flight " and " before takeoff " checklists all involve physically moving switches . The EFB would be unable to perform these actions ( e.g. an EFB can not select flaps 9 degrees ) . What an EFB could do , if tied into the aircraft ARINC data bus , is to verify things . Such an EFB could verify that flaps are indicating a set position and could alert us if it were not . However , as mentioned , the EICAS already does this , and if I were to advance a thrust lever beyond taxi power I would get a master warning and a takeoff configuration EICAS message as well as an aural warning " TAKEOFF FLAPS " ( EMB-145 ) . You also mention the bulk of paper carried as a reason for this , but this is not relevant to the checklists . The checklist on many large airplanes is a single sheet of paper , laminated and installed in the airplane . Some airplanes may have a few sheets , but overall checklists account for very little paperwork and they belong to the airplane , not the pilots . Where EFBs do help with paperwork are the approach charts , which account for 75 % of what I carried on any given flight . Three 2 " binders , full of nothing but approach plates . An EFB can condense that down to a tablet , and this is where the value of the EFB is .
Critical speed or Mach number is the speed at which the speed of sound is locally reached somewhere along the flow around an airfoil . A supercritical airfoil can tolerate operating speeds slightly above the critical speed ( hence the name ) , which means that a pocket of supersonic flow will show up , most likely on the upper surface . What qualifies an airfoil as supercritical is that the recompression does not need a <URL> , but can be done shock-free for a small lift coefficient range by clever shaping . See <URL> for more . Calculation of a supercritical airfoil is best done with a computer program which models the flow conditions around Mach 1 faithfully . Once such program would be <URL> . The picture below shows one result for the BACJ airfoil at Mach 0.8 , and you can see that the speed on the upper surface reaches Mach 1.3 .
First , some airliners do use it - the <URL> ( Noise and Vibration Suppression ) system to reduce cabin noise . Basically , it uses devices called Active Tuned Vibration Absorbers ( ATVAs ) mounted on the fuselage frames to ' cancel ' the vibrations from propellers and outside noise , thereby quieting the cabin . However , there are some issues with using active noise cancellation in aircraft : The aircraft cabin is quite big and complex , and it would be very difficult to achieve noise cancellation over the entire volume ; as active noise cancellation depends on the cancellation of sound waves using opposite phase , it works best in small , confined spaces . If the waves turn out to be in phase in a region , the sound would be doubled - not a good result . A significant contributor to the noise inside the cabin is the wind outside ; this is usually random and the frequency spectrum is also quite wide , resulting in difficulties in noise cancellation . Noise cancellation is effective mostly when the frequency of the source is constant , which is not usually the case ( the props are an exception - they lend themselves well to noise suppression ) Instead of active noise cancellation , aircraft manufacturers are putting more energy in reducing the noise itself : Better engines , which has lesser noise through the use of chevrons , etc. . Better modelling of aircraft , so that the fuselage design minimizes the noise due to wind . Better damping and cabin design , so the noise produced ( for example , due to air conditioning and ventilation ) is reduced .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
You 've asked a question the answer to which is in large part a matter of opinion . Also , which three-person cockpit aircraft you 're talking about also enters in , as does the stage of flight , as do the conditions at the airport of intended landing . All this , in my opinion , means the answer is " maybe " insofar as an FE who had had flight training be able to get the airplane down safely , and the currency of the FEs piloting would be important as well . As far as the minimum number of pilots required to safely land a jet with a three-person cockpit ( a separate question really ) , one pilot and the FE can safely land the airplane . In a normal landing , the flying pilot is doing most of the pilot work . The non-flying pilot typically is doing the radio work and manipulating the gear and flap levers at the command of the flying pilot . Since pilots usually trade legs , both are used to doing all that needs to be done . If a non-flying pilot is not there , the flying pilot can easily reach the flap and gear controls , and he 's used to manipulating them when acting as the non-flying pilot . In the scenario of an FE leaving his seat and sitting in a pilot seat and performing the piloting , there is the problem that the FE panel generally can not be reached from a pilot seat . To a degree , depending on the stage of flight , the FE could pre-set his panel for the landing . Some years ago I wrote a novel ( unpublished ) in which I had a single pilot fly a 747 . In the novel the pilot had fashioned a wooden pole long enough to reach the FE panel from the captain 's seat . The pole had at one end an arrangement that allowed the pilot of manipulate the necessary switches and dials on the FE panel .
The original 757 cockpit was considered " glass . " It consisted of six screens : Pilot 's PFD and ND , Co-pilots PFD and ND , and an upper and lower EICAS screen . Behind the scenes , there is a triple autopilot system ( left , center and right ) , two flight management computers , three flight control computers , three display control units ( think SGU or symbol generator ) , two to three air data computers depending on customer option , and two EICAS ( Engine Indicating and Caution and Advisory System ) computers . There are also a large number of card files that process various system discretes to provide aural warnings . A more modern upgrade to this , called " IS&amp;S " keeps the same " boxes " in the shelves , but changes the PFD/ND displays to 4 LCD displays . This also got rid of the standalone airspeed indicators and altimeters ( save the standby ) as well as VSI 's . It makes the aircraft " NextGen " compliant .
To be most effective chocks should be placed on both of the main gear of light aircraft . This prevents the aircraft from rotating or pivoting about the chocked wheel . <URL> which talks about this . The FAA , in an overabundance of caution , advises you to chock ALL the wheels ( see <URL> ) . Practically speaking , on a flat ramp and a calm day chocking any single wheel is usually enough to keep the airplane where you put it for a short while ( say long enough refuel the aircraft , or to get lunch ) . When using a single chock my preference in these cases is to chock the nose wheel as it 's the most visible ( I fly a low-wing airplane , and an inattentive line person who needs to tow the plane could miss a chock on the main gear ) . With two chocks the main gear should be secured on each side of the aircraft to keep it from pivoting . For anything longer than that a brief food and fuel stop , or when high winds are anticipated , aircraft should be properly secured ( by tying them down and chocking at least one wheel ) . In these cases the tiedowns serve as the primary securing mechanism , and the chocks as a secondary mechanism ( keeping the plane from rocking fore and aft in high winds and breaking the tiedown ropes ) . Note that there is an exception to the " high winds " bit here : If winds strong enough to blow chocks around on the ramp are anticipated , such as a hurricane , the chocks should be removed unless they can be adequately secured to ensure they do n't get blown into an aircraft . Of course if winds that strong are anticipated you should really have flown away before they got to you , or you should be looking for a hangar to weather the storm in .
end question
start question
Do hot air balloon pilots file flight plans ?
A quick look at the <URL> makes it sound like , in the USA , they can enter any sort of airspace provided they can do it safely . So , theoretically , they could file a flight plan or at least alert local ATC to their activities . All of that being said , having been involved in hot air balloon operations before , I think it would not be terribly feasible . Firstly , flying a hot air balloon outside of Visual Flight Rule conditions ( being able to see several miles ) would be extremely dangerous , so you would n't need to file a flight plan for that . Secondly , you generally only want to fly a hot air balloon in very sparsely populated areas ( Class G airspace ) , and while you could have a flight plan there really is n't a need . A more congested area ( Class B or Class A ) would be extremely dangerous to navigate in a hot air balloon . It 's pretty hard to get out of the way , since controlling where you are going is ... iffy sometimes . So , in summary , yes it could be done , but in the vast majority of cases there 's little need to do it . Other than to just alert local ATC that you will be in the area .
You just fly your profile . Initially its with an instructor , but eventually you move on to training by yourself/copilot . You can practice full autos ( to a landing ) , but some airframes practice to a hover or in early stages . In the TH-57B ( Bell 206 ) , you can take it a full power-off landing during training since it is light enough . However , moving up to the TH-57C you do power-on recoveries , where you run the twistgrip back up to full open while you 're in the flare . You then initiate the recovery to arrive at a standard 5-foot hover . The C model has significantly more weight , which is the main reason . In the MH-60S its all power-on , recovery to a hover . Except we do not go to idle like in the 57s , we just rapidly lower the collective to get the needle split . Same process in practicing your scan , initiating the flare , and then pulling in power at the appropriate height once you 've leveled . Finish at 10 feet with some forward speed . ( Rumor is that Army does full practice autos in their 60s , but never confirmed that ) . Navy prohibits it in the MH-60S and almost certainly in the MH-60R as well . The explanation I received is that the airframe is meant to absorb the impact similar to your car during a full auto , and thus full practices can structurally compromise the bird . Source : MH-60S driver
I 'll tackle the " How " first - you call up Flight Service ( either on the radio or on the phone after you land ) and tell them you have a pilot report . There 's a <URL> , and if you give all the information in the order it appears on that form it 's faster for you and the person taking the report . If you 're filing a pilot report on the ground for conditions you encountered enroute you need to specify the ( Zulu ) time of your observation ( or tell the briefer " 20 minutes ago " ) . In the air it 's generally assumed your report is for " now " . Pilots are requested to provide pilot reports for significant deviations from the forecast weather , or for hazardous conditions . Basically we provide them as a courtesy and service to our fellow pilots ( like flashing your lights at other cars on the highway if you know there 's a speed trap ) . Some pilot reports you may want to file in flight are if the Winds Aloft differ from the forecast . If the forecast told you you should have a 10 knot tailwind and you actually have a 5 knot headwind that 's pretty significant , and if you tell Flight Service they will pass it along to the weather forecasters and they 'll factor it in to their next Winds Aloft calculation . It will also appear in the next pilot 's briefing so they 'll know the winds in the forecast are n't correct . Another example is turbulence : If you 're encountering continuous moderate chop at 7,000 feet but smooth air at 9,000 feet providing that information could be useful to the next pilot flying through the same area . A classic example of a PIREP you file after you 're on the ground is icing : If there was no icing in the forecast but you 've encountered some you should report these conditions . If you 're under ATC control you 'll obviously tell them , but when you 're on the ground you should call Flight Service and file a formal pilot report . Again , the information will be passed to the weather forecasters and the icing AIRMET will be updated , and your PIREP will be passed along to other folks in their briefings to keep them out of the ice .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
Generally speaking , the only reasons for which a flight plan would be actually rejected would fall under what you referred to as " errors or omissions " . But , the operational reasons you cite might lead to an amendment to your flight plan ( which the pilot would most likely receive as an amended clearance ) . IFR flight plans filed electronically are rejected by the flight plan processing computer if the filer files an impossible flight plan . I would presume that a flight plan filed verbally or in person through ATC or FSS would also be rejected for the same reasons , probably by the same computer , but with the rejection relayed to you through the third party . See these rejection examples that AOPA lays out in <URL> : If you plan a " direct " flight , point-to-point , follow the rules and enter the correct equipment . For example , if " / G " ( or " slash Golf , " meaning that your airplane is equipped with an IFR-approved GPS and a Mode C transponder ) or " / I " ( you have loran or VOR/DME and a Mode C transponder ) are not entered for these kinds of flights , the air traffic control computer will reject your flight plan because that route ca n't be flown with less capable equipment . and , File fixes that are actually on the airways that you file in your IFR flight plan . Pilot error causes flight plans to be rejected when the filed points are not on the routes that are filed . Depending on how you file , other possible rejection reasons might include formatting errors , a non-existent clearance limit , or might depend on the specific filing means ; I am certainly not familiar with all means of filing . I have filed in person with a sheet of paper when standing in the office at the bottom of a control tower , over the phone , and online , and over the aircraft radio ; I 've never had an IFR flight plan actually rejected . Beyond such reasons , a flight plan will typically not be rejected as such , but may well be amended . The reasons you propose -- traffic density , route issues , etc -- are usually negotiable , or are circumvented by amendments to your clearance . Certainly , these issues may present challenges , but they can usually be worked around . These flight plans do receive scrutiny ; IFR clearances are all about traffic separation , and this is ATC 's primary task . Understand that to file an IFR flight plan is , essentially , to apply for a specific routing for specific time frame ; you may or may not be given your requested routing when you receive your actual clearance . Receiving a clearance different from the route filed , or receiving a clearance amendment while en-route are both common . Note that an amendment need not be ATC initiated : the pilot can request an amendment , either before or during a flight . One final note on TFRs : you can sometimes ( often ? ) fly through these , even under VFR ; you just have to get approval . For example , I 've flown through the Grand Forks TFR while flying VFR with ATC approval .
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
In summary , based on FAA/NTSB information it 's possible in theory but no one really knows how individual headsets behave and there 's no record of ANR headsets contributing to an accident . First , according to a very short FAA <URL> on Noise Attenuation Properties of Noise-Canceling Headsets , it 's possible that they can mask important sounds : While this technology can have many beneficial effects such as providing clearer communications , reduced pilot fatigue , and added comfort , electronic attenuation of important environmental sounds and alarms may occur But the paper has no specific information or examples , and its only purpose seems to be to encourage operators to do their own testing ( which is reasonable , since headsets can be very different ) : Evaluations should be conducted while both on the ground and in flight during normal operating conditions to ascertain if any audible alarms or other environmental sounds , or combinations thereof , can be detected while electronic noise attenuation is on and active . That paper is from 2007 and a <URL> from the same year on headset requirements in part 121 operations implies that the FAA 's main concern with ANR headsets is ( or was ) that the batteries run out and that might cause problems : The FAA is particularly concerned , however , that Active Noise Reduction ( ANR ) headsets and headset adapters [ ... ] that rely on battery power are subject to failure when [ ... ] batteries discharge under normal use And the FAA 's general <URL> on Hearing and Noise in Aviation mentions ANR headsets without any warnings or recommendations . Finally , the NTSB 's accident database has only one <URL> to an ANR headset ( that I could find ) and it explicitly ruled out any effect : On January 5 , 1998 , the NTSB IIC used a Cessna 208B to determine if the Telex model ANR-4100 active noise reduction headset worn by the pilot at the time of the accident could have eliminated his ability to hear stall or fuel selector warning horns . All aural warnings were clearly audible with the engine operating and the headset active . The information I found online on ANR headsets is overwhelmingly positive and I could n't find any informal reports of pilots mishearing engine sounds either .
A EFB is a legal replacement for paper charts and you are not required to carry backup if you are operating as part 91 single engine piston . <URL> is in reference to part 91F ( Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes ) . <URL> is aimed at Part 91 operators , VFR or IFR and states that EFBs can be used in all phases of flight in lieu of paper . A backup data source is suggested , but is not required . Note that this backup can be another electronic device . See <URL> .
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
Yes , a hot air balloon would change class , if you are adding an engine and propeller to provide thrust . With powered flight comes the need to provide some form of flight control ; at this point , you have an airship , albeit a <URL> . According to the FAA 's <URL> , and much like @voretaq7 's citation in another answer : An airship is an engine-driven , lighter-than-air aircraft , that can be steered . The FAA has a whole section on <URL> , for further reading .
I 've just arrived back home after being in the US for some months . I was required to have a FAA class 3 medical , because I did some flight training there , and luckily the one I 've received is also is a student pilot certificate with the number on it you require to register for DUAT . Some of my colleges did n't have this number and so they were not able to register until getting there FAA pilot certificate . This will be send to your home adress , most probably when you are home again . In the US you 'll only get a temporary certificate ( peace of paper ) . The only number you 'll find on it is your current license number . Now what you can try : One of my colleges simply wrote an e-mail to duats helpdesk where he described his situation , giving all the information they require on their registration page with his foreign license number and attached a photography of his license and a proof that he 'll be in the us for the next months . Less than 24 hours later he had a log-in . We had a student Visa , but if you do n't have something like this , just try it without it , or take a photography of something else looking trustworthy . Good luck and enjoy your trip ! Edit : I was just looking for the e-mail address , but for any reason my browser refuses to load duats website . As far as I remember , you 'll find it at the registration page . If someonewho can access the website likes to add the e-mail adress please feel free to do so , I would appreciate your help .
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
Yes , for a while : Capt. Al Haynes , after <URL> on United Flight 232 . <URL> I was lucky enough to have dinner with Al Haynes a few years ago , and he told me that he had a very difficult time overcoming the guilt of the disaster . The talks he gives have been a way of coping . ( As a side note , he also donates all the money he receives from the talks to the survivors of the crash ) . Capt. Haynes has said the same thing in various interviews : The Seattle Times : Haynes said it took many sessions with a psychiatrist to overcome his survivor 's guilt . He resumed flying three months after the accident ; mandatory retirement at 60 followed two years later . <URL> NY Mag : It was very hard to get past the guilt of surviving . My job had been to get people from point A to point B safely , and I did n't do it . I felt that I had killed them . I had a lot of psychiatric help at the hospital and afterward . Finally , one psychiatrist said , " You 're not going to find an answer . You just have to accept that it happened . " <URL> AvWeb : Haynes said , at the time , that he remained troubled by the accident and constantly wondered if there was something he could have done , some overlooked decision that would have saved all aboard . <URL> Before his death , <URL> said something similar : " To find out 112 people did n't make it , that just about destroyed me , " Fitch once said . " I would have given my life for any of them . It was a really tough time . " <URL>
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
Based on my personal experience , the answer is NO ( as of the time of writing ) . I use both systems regularly , and have discovered the two do not share flight plans at the user account level . ForeFlight uses its own account ( and not individual user accounts ) to interact with Lockheed Martin Flight Services . Because of this , it appears that LMFS has no way of knowing which user account is associated with a flight plan filed through ForeFlight . Identifying data within the flight plan itself ( i.e. , name and phone ) are not processed by the filing system , merely stored for later retrieval if needed . I mention this because LMFS can ( upon request ) associate tail numbers with a phone number , so that when you call them on 800-WX-BRIEF your profile comes up on their screen automatically ( though I have found this to be less useful than one might think ) . In order to use the services you have identified , you will need to file your flight plan directly on the LMFS web site ( and have your notification settings configured properly ) . With that said , all of these functions ( with the exception SE-SAR ) , have been available directly within ForeFlight for some time : ACAS/ATC notices - if configured by the user , sent via push notification ( <URL> ) EasyActivate/EasyClose - flight plans can be amended/canceled/activated / closed within the File &amp; Brief window ( <URL> ) Close reminder - sent via push notification ( <URL> ) Over the past couple of years , ForeFlight has been aggressively working towards tighter integration with LMFS , so I would expect additional functionality to be forthcoming ( purely speculative , since they are very tight-lipped about upcoming enhancements ) . UPDATE : It looks like LMFS now offers integrated services with a number of providers ( but not ForeFlight ) . My guess is ForeFlight does n't allow it because it was already offering the same services and now needs to figure out a way to ensure users do n't get duplicate messages : <URL>
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
<URL> has the following duties : Plan and execute theater air operations Analyze national defense strategy Develop and conduct flying and simulation exercises Conduct , manage , evaluate and improve unit training and readiness Create operational policies Further information can be found at <URL> . In USAirForce , there are seven categories of aeronautical ratings . They are : Pilot Navigator Combat Systems Officer ( CSO ) Air Battle Manager ( ABM ) RPA Pilot Observer Flight Surgeon For further reading about these ratings , read <URL> .
I typically like to get VFR flight following if I have n't filed a flight plan for longer distance flights . The biggest advantage here is that somebody knows where I am if something should happen . I do n't typically find the chatter too bad , but you do have to be on the ball , especially when handed off from a local airport to an <URL> ( commonly referred to as just " Center " ) frequency . Often on flights out of my airport ( <URL> ) I will get handed off to <URL> , which is relatively busy frequency . Another nice thing is that it gives you some practice talking in busy airspace . You really have to follow the rules and jump in when able . Sometimes they wo n't hear you because you are transmitting over other aircraft that you ca n't hear , so the frequency will appear open . It 'll sound like they are talking to themselves . So here is how I see it : Pros You are talking to somebody and working with other traffic in the airspace You are on a frequency you can broadcast an emergency to . Yes we all know about 121.5 , but you are not guaranteed to get somebody on the other end . ATC knows where you are , and if you fall off the radar and do n't respond , they will initiate a search . If you just file a VFR flight plan they wo n't even start until 30 minutes after your planned arrival , and then they start calling airports and contact numbers , then start a search . They may not know where you fell off your flight plan so the search area is much bigger . They can help route you around active MOAs , TFRs , and other airspace/weather issues that do n't show up well on paper maps . Traffic advisories ( as others pointed out ) Can provide a vector to where you want if you get lost . Do n't need to open a flight plan if you can get following all the way . Good radio practice Cons Flight following is " workload permitting . " They may call up and say at any time , turning your flight back into normal VFR . If you did n't file a flight plan , now you should call up FSS and open one en route , which is more difficult . Requires you to be on-the-ball with your radio transmissions on busier frequencies . If you frequently fly from uncontrolled airspace , this can be intimidating . You may get vectored around a bit , but I usually do n't have that problem . I 've typically contacted the destination airport by 20 miles out and either got clearance or vectors anyway .
The crew of <URL> ( 4 in total ) enter or exit the cockpit from the underside , using a ladder . It can be seen in <URL> . This picture shows the ladder ( the one on the right ) : <URL> On the top of the ladder , there is a door , which looks like this : <URL>
Short answer : Sleep aids can not be used this way in the US . FAA regulates the use of such medications with a delay : <URL> : <URL> More on medication advice to medical examiners : <URL> . Only the <URL> ( a <URL> <URL> ) could be used in a practical manner ( not publicly available in France nor likely in many other countries ) . Circadian rhythm What you are referring to has got the scientific name of circadian rhythm ( circa = around , diēs = day ) , which is the subject of an article at SkyBrary : <URL> . About the night flights : Night operations create a host of problems for flight crews . The primary problem is having to work efficiently and safely at a point in time when the work requirements are not in synchrony with circadian rhythms . Under worst-case conditions , crew members must perform demanding tasks during the early morning hours ( 2 am to 6 am ) when their biological functions and performance efficiency are at their lowest level . This problem can not be quickly solved by adaptation of the biological clock . Complete adjustment to night work requires at least 21 night shifts in a row with no days off . Adjustment of the biological clock does not even commence until about 10 days after a shift change . Fatigue Long article about <URL> , about zaleplon : This misalignment of the sleep/wake cycle and endogenous circadian rhythms could be the result of shift lag , jet lag , or attempting sleep at other than the habitual bedtime or at the second circadian dip in the afternoon . For such circumstances , the U.S. Air Force and Army have approved the limited use of temazepam , zolpidem , and zaleplon . These hypnotics can optimize the quality of crew rest in circumstances where sleep is possible , but difficult to obtain . Inflight rest As additional information about sleep management inflight : On a 8-hour flight , usually there will be 3 pilots , and each one will be able to sleep ( outside the flight deck ) . Air France <URL> . Air Canada <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
When is turbulence most dangerous to an aircraft ?
Wake turbulence can affect aircraft in the most critical phases of flight such as landing approach . For example , consider this <URL> On June 12 , 2006 , while on visual approach at Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City , Mo. , the pilot of a Piper Saratoga crossed below the flight path of a Boeing 737 that was landing ahead on a parallel runway . The Saratoga encountered wake turbulence so violent that it tore apart the aircraft in flight . The pilot and his passenger were killed . The effects are most severe for small aircraft entering the wake of a large aircraft but large aircraft can be affected too . Skybrary <URL> of incidents involving wake turbulance .
No , simulators can not realistically simulate turbulence . Turbulence is characterized by significant changes in altitude that happen very quickly , and even full motion simulators are n't going to be able to re-create that . They can bump you around a bit , but not really prepare you for the real thing .
This depends on the rules of engagement for a country and how the intercepting aircraft are instructed to act . Radio Contact The intercepting aircraft will try to establish radio contact on the <URL> available . 121.500 MHz or for NATO aircraft 243.000 MHz . Visual Contact Unless there is an imminent threat , the intercepting aircraft can position next to the intruding aircraft and establish visual contact with the pilots . There is also standardized procedures , such as the infamous rocking of wings . <URL> ( Image Source : <URL> ) Flares Unless at high altitude , ground based units can shoot flares to attract attention and inform aircraft that they are entering prohibited or restricted airspace .
The door the passengers are loading through is obviously one route , back down the jetway or stairs . The door being " armed " does not affect whether it can be opened or not . When the door is armed , opening it will also automatically inflate the escape slide . When the door is disarmed , the slide will not inflate . Additionally , each door has a manual inflation handle for the escape slide which the crew can use to deploy the slide if needed . I could not find a non-copyrighted picture to include . <URL>
Origin of the vortices Wake turbulence is easy to understand once you know how a wing creates lift : By deflecting the air flowing across it downwards . In <URL> , I had used the simplification of just accelerating downwards all the air flowing through a circle with a diameter equal to the wingspan , and leaving all other air unaffected . This helps to understand the principle of lift creation , but is too simple , of course , because the downward movement of air will create a void above it , and the air below has to make place for that downward moving streamtube . Also , the pressure field around the wing will affect the air in the vicinity of the streamtube as well , and in consequence air from below will be pushed sideways already by the wing , and the air above will start to flow towards the low pressure area over the wing . This sideways movement will become more pronounced aft of the wing , such that air will continuously be pressed outwards below the wing 's wake , move up left and right of it and inwards above the wake . The inertia of the downwash keeps it moving downwards for several minutes , continuously displacing the air below it and sucking more air into the space above , and that will result in two vortices swirling behind the wing . This is the rolling up of the wake ( see the sketch below , taken from <URL> ) . The vortices are just a consequence of the downward movement of the wake , and this in turn is a consequence of lift creation . Please note that the cores of the vortices are closer together than the wingspan ! This by itself should make clear that they are not caused by air flowing around wingtips , a hard to extinguish misconception . The table below gives calculations of this vortex spacing . The table is also from the <URL> ; note the inclusion of Boeing 's 2707 project ! Strength of the vortices If we again come back to the simplified streamtube approximation , lift is proportional to the mass of air flowing through it per unit of time times the deflection angle . If lift is equal to the aircraft 's mass ( as it should be ) , heavy aircraft need to either accelerate more air ( wider span ) or accelerate air more ( higher deflection angle ) than light aircraft at the same speed . A higher deflection angle will produce more powerful vortices . For that reason , a heavy aircraft at low speed and with a small wingspan will produce the strongest vortices . Since more air flows through the streamtube at higher flight speed , flying faster will require less deflection , making the wake vortices weaker . If the aircraft climbs , air becomes less dense with altitude , and less mass flow over the wing is available , so the vortices grow stronger if the flight speed does not change . Normally , aircraft accelerate when climbing , and the vortex strength will stay the same if the aircraft flies at constant dynamic pressure . Vortices can be avoided in three ways : Infinite wing span ( meaning infinite mass flow , so no deflection is necessary for any lift ) Infinite speed ( again , gives infinite mass flow ) No weight of the aircraft . Flying a zero-g parabola does indeed produce almost no wake turbulence . End of the vortices Inertia will keep the wake moving downwards and the vortices spinning , but friction will let those air movements die down within a few minutes . If the aircraft flies high , the wake is dissipated long before it hits the ground . The wake of low flying aircraft , however , does hit the ground and is deflected . The vortex tube now acts like a wheel and starts moving outward , and if there is a sufficient crosswind , the windward vortex can be arrested as in the right sketch below ( also from the Carten report ) . Photographic evidence There are far too <URL> to not include some , so I will add a few here : You can see that the outer contrails of this Boeing 747 's engines wrap around the contrails of the inner engines . This shows how the air is pushed down in the wake of the wing and that the centers of the vortices are slightly inboard of the outer engines . The condensation traces originating at the winglet tips of this A340 move in - and upward , again showing that the vortex does not originate from the tips but forms behind the wing and with a distance between the two vortex cores of substantially less than the wingspan . These two pictures show how the downwash of the wake is cutting a furrow in the clouds . <URL> MD-11 on a moist day , flaps set for landing . One , it shows how insignificant the tip vortex is compared to vorticity shed at the flap tips , and Two it shows how the tip vortex moves inward and starts to be sucked into the wake vortex . Note also the tip vortices from the tail !
On a low wing monoplane you 'll need a pump all the time . There will be a mechanical pump fitted to the engine for the purpose . On a high-wing monoplane the engine is often gravity feed . However , during critical phases of flight ( specifically take-off and landing ) you would n't want to have that fail so a second auxiliary electric pump is fitted that the pilot switches on beforehand and can switch off once that phase is over . The Pilot 's Operating Manual will give specific recommendations for use on any given type .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
They are basically window-shaped screens , displaying a feed from a camera so the middle aisle suits ( where the alternative is a wall ) passengers can enjoy the " view " . The most interesting thing to me are the virtual windows . First Class passengers in the middle suite will have a set of " windows " like everyone else , only theirs will show images from an outside camera . <URL>
Because each jet engine only has one lever ; each piston engine has three . Jet engine 's throttle is pretty straight forward - move forward , more power . The computer automatically manages fuel flow to prevent surge , flameout and N1 overshoot . On a piston engine you have three - a mixture lever , a propeller lever and a throttle lever . Granted , I do n't think auto-mixture would be too hard to implement . Now , do I want a high-speed climb or high-power climb ? And remember , the prop and throttle must be managed together . You can not go beyond a certain power range with the props set for low rpm , otherwise you 'll damage the engine . It 's like a car 's automatic transmission , except it has one more dimension . Power affects pitch When you change power you must change the aircraft 's pitch altogether . Autopilots on modern airlines have quite a number of vertical modes : ALT , V/S , G/S , VNAV , FLCH , TO/GA , CLB etc. . None of those have the concept of gear ratio , which is required for propeller management . Can you design an autopilot system such that it functions on propeller engines ? Absolutely . But it is going to be complicated . Not only the usual operations , but the failure modes , have to be engineered and learnt by the pilots . How do you deal with an auto-mixture failure ? RPM mismatch ? Such training would add unnecessary cost to an otherwise simple aircraft operation . If your airplane does not have a variable pitch propeller , it is probably too simplistic for this kind of autopilot anyway . Jets have another property which makes auto throttle a logical choice - the faster you fly , the more powerful the engines . Thus , on a jet , you would have to make continuous throttle adjustment if you change your airspeed . So an auto throttle would be helpful . Pistons do not behave like that . Turboprops One of the main reasons for choosing piston aircraft is - it is simple . It just fly . No fancy stuff . No lengthy preflight checks . No computers . I just want to get flying . This thinking also extends to turboprops . It 's worthy to note that the ATR does not have auto throttle as well . The ATR 42 has power management ( but not speed management ) , where activating it will simply move a bug on the torque gauge ; the pilots have to manually move the levers to follow it . The ATR 72 has a notch for the pilots to place the throttle levers , but still , no motor to move the levers automatically . I ca n't think of any reason behind this design philosophy besides simplicity and cost .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
I 'm not exactly sure whether this counts , but I think the <URL> using a <URL> comes pretty close . Though Major Buang-Ly was not a civilian , he has never seen a carrier before and the landing was n't exactly illegal . It was permitted by <URL> during <URL> , who even scuttled helicopters on the deck to ensure safe landing . The image below shows the aircraft as it comes to a stop . <URL> Image from <URL>
It depends on the aircraft . In any aircraft where the two control columns are linked , there 's only one input to command the control surfaces . While most smaller aircraft are connected directly through the control surfaces , Boeing publicizes that on the 787 - a fly-by-wire aircraft - the control columns " <URL> " On Airbus aircraft ( and probably others ) , the controls are not linked : there is no indication on one pilot 's controls of the other 's position . The computer handles this by adding the two inputs : opposite commands will cancel each other out , while both pilots commanding the same input will <URL> . Some Airbus aircraft have a feature which makes an announcement of " DUAL INPUT " when there is input on both sidesticks simultaneously . As of <URL> , this was " an installation " ( optional feature , I believe ) on the A320 and under development for the A340 . Airbus aircraft also have a <URL> , which lets one pilot take control and have the airplane ignore inputs from the other sidestick . As Farhan noted , good <URL> is also very important to ensure that only one command is given at once . Some aircraft have linked controls , which can be separated if necessary . On the 767 , if sufficient force is applied , the elevators will " split " : each control column will control one of the elevators . The pilot who is stronger or better prepared will have <URL> . There 's also the <URL> : The roll input is ... linked at the control column [ . ] Each yoke independently controls its own aileron -- the CA yoke only flies the left aileron and the FO yoke the right aileron . It is only through the control column linkage that each yoke can control the whole airplane . It is done this way so that if there is a problem with a cable jamming , the control interlock can be disconnected and at least half control regained .
From an older <URL> on mountain flying : Mountain Wave When the wind speed is above about 25 knots and flowing perpendicular to the ridge lines , the air flow can form waves , much like water flowing over rocks in a stream bed . The waves form down wind from the ridge line and will be composed of very strong up and down drafts , plus dangerous rotor action under the crests of the waves . If enough moisture is present , lenticular clouds can form to give a visual indication of the wave action . These clouds are reported in the remarks section of hourly sequence reports as ACSL ( altocumulus standing lenticular ) or CCSL ( cirrocumulus standing lenticular ) Pretty much sums up what you 're seeing I guess . As for action : Ridge and Pass Crossing On most mountain flights , you will need to cross at least one ridge or pass . Experienced pilots recommend crossing a ridge or pass at the ridge elevation plus at least 1,000 feet . If the winds at mountain top level are above 20 knots , increase that to 2,000 feet . Plan to be at that altitude at least three miles before reaching the ridge and stay at that altitude until at least three miles past it . This clearance zone will give you a reasonable safety zone to avoid the most severe turbulence and down drafts in windy conditions . If conditions or airplane performance dictate , you may need to fly along the windward side of a ridge to find updrafts for gaining altitude before crossing a ridge . You may also need to circle before reaching the ridge if climbing out of a valley airport . When you actually cross a ridge , you should do so at a 45 • angle to the ridge . This allows you to turn away from the ridge quicker if you encounter a severe downdraft or turbulence . Once you have crossed the ridge , turn directly away from it at a go • angle to get away from the most likely area of turbulence quickly . Plan your crossing to give yourself the ability to turn toward lower terrain quickly if necessary . As for helicopter mountain flying specifically , I 'm afraid you are unlikely to find somebody on here with that experience . You might have better chance on searching for it online and phoning up flight schools that offer such courses ( I found a few in the states ) for information .
It 's not so much a matter of " pilots typically get very uncomfortable " as it is " pilots recognize that it is an inherently less safe situation " , and pilots ( at least the ones you want to fly with ) tend to be somewhat safety obsessed . So Why are tailwinds during landing " bad " ? The same reason tailwinds in cruise flight are good : you 're moving over the ground at a higher speed . The amount of energy the aircraft has ( and thus its landing distance ) is roughly proportional to the square of the groundspeed . Let 's consider the plane I fly as an example ( a <URL> ) because I know the numbers : if I 'm flying by the book then when the wheels of my plane hit the ground my indicated airspeed should be around 45 knots . No Wind If there 's no wind my ground speed and my indicated airspeed will be about the same - my brakes will have to slow me from 45 knots to a stop before I run out of runway . The brakes on the Cherokee are n't Porsche brakes ( they 're tiny little things ) , but they 're up to the task and a book-perfect landing would have me stopped in 600 feet . 15-Knot Headwind A 15 knot headwind reduces my groundspeed to 30 knots - at 2/3 the speed I can stop much sooner with the same braking force , which means less wear on the brakes and a greater safety margin of runway remaining . A book-perfect landing in these conditions would have me stopped in about 270 feet . 15-knot Tailwind A 15 knot tailwind increases my groundspeed to 60 knots . The tiny little brakes on the Cherokee CAN stop me , but they 're going to take much longer to do so : A book-perfect landing would take over 1000 feet to stop ( nearly twice the " normal " no-wind landing roll ) . The big consideration above is landing distance -- as you noted in your question you can solve that with a longer runway ( more pavement means more room to stop ) , but there are other dangers with tailwind landings , mainly in the fact that Landings do n't always go according to plan . The slower your groundspeed at landing the less energy you have to get rid of if something goes wrong Consider the three landings I outlined above , but let 's add a problem to the mix : One of my tires blows right at touchdown , and the plane veers off the runway into a ditch . There is much less energy to dissipate with a 15-knot headwind ( 30kt groundspeed ) than there is with a 15-knot tailwind ( 60kt groundspeed ) - it 's roughly the difference between crashing your car driving through a school zone versus speeding on a highway . Fortunately it 's really easy to avoid landing with a tailwind -- most runways are bidirectional ( Aspen , which you mentioned in your question , is a notable exception due to geography ) . ATC ( or at uncontrolled fields , the pilots themselves ) will " turn the airport around " once a certain tailwind limit is reached . Precisely when that happens depends on the airport and the traffic mix ( at my home field , with mostly small piston aircraft , ATC will typically switch the runway when the tailwind component exceeds 5 knots - at JFK they might land a jet with a 10-knot tailwind rather than messing up the arrivals ) . Of course there 's nothing that says a pilot has to accept a landing with a tailwind : If the pilot is not comfortable with the conditions they can request a runway aligned so the winds are more favorable . ( There is a <URL> who ultimately decided to declare an emergency to ensure a landing on a favorable runway ) .
I like to answer your question with a short example . A few days ago I flew to Venice ( untowered ) and decided for a teardrop entry to set up for the 45 . My calls were 10 and 5 miles out , both ending with " any traffic please advise " guess what I saw overtaking me on my 4 o'clock position only a few hundred feet away at same altitude ( 500 feet above pattern ) . It is legal to make a straight in , but before you think about the time or fuel you waste please think about your own and even the guys who 's not on CTAF and obviously heads down safety . If you fly the 45 and the continue the pattern ( it 's not allways left , check your sectional and the A/FD ) everybody knows what the other one is doing and if necessary can act accordingly .
This is a very dated answer now , but for what it 's worth , prior to my retirement in 1999 from a U.S. airline , we did ditching scenarios in 747-100/200 sims during initial training and then occasionally during recurrent training . Proper execution included being on-speed for your weight , nose attitude at touchdown ( 5 degrees up as I remember ) , aircraft configuration ( gear up but I do n't remember the flap setting ) , determination of wave direction if possible , and landing parallel to the wave action . It was a relatively easy scenario for the pilots but a busy scenario for the flight engineer . He had to position valves properly at the right time , including making sure the pressurization outflow valves were closed to prevent fuselage flooding .
Generally speaking , pilots do n't like it when a computer interprets or limits their actions . They want final control . They do n't always get their way on this but that 's their preference . If I recall correctly , Boeing tends to stick with the philosophy that " the pilot is the final arbiter . " Airbus is more likely to preempt pilot inputs and modify them . Although the majority of crashes and incidents wind up being pilot error , there is a serious flaw to modifying pilot inputs . That flaw is in the case of systems failure . By definition , failure modes involve things going wrong . When things go wrong it 's effectively impossible to plan , in automation , for all contingencies . People are much better at responding to the unknown than automation systems are . Take for instance the rule that " bank angles > 45 degrees are dangerous , and are therefore prohibited " . How does the plane know that the bank angle is > 45 degrees ? Well it 's a sensor of course , but what if the sensor has failed ? A failed sensor will either signal to take action when none is needed or fail to signal when action is called for . What if the control surfaces have failed and the plane can not correct the bank angle ? The usual answer to that is redundant systems , high reliability parts and design , etc. . All those are great of course and certainly help a lot . However we still have incidents and accidents . In the end the question is : Who do you trust more ? A pilot or a machine ? And statistics and science only help you part-way here . A person 's experience , biases and feelings will have a lot to say about how they answer . And by " person " , understand that I 'm including the customers , the paying public .
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
The <URL> you are referring to explains how radar is used to fly through a <URL> whilst avoiding the most turbulent areas . Conventional weather radar can not detect wind speed or turbulence directly , it only detects solid and liquid objects above a threshold size . The most turbulent areas of thunderstorms are also those areas that contain the most water and ice . This precipitation reflects radar waves very well so the most turbulent areas have the strongest reflections and shows up as red / purple on the scope . The area downwind of the core is usually very turbulent as well . So the weather radar is merely detecting the presence of water . It is the pilot interpreting the picture who is really detecting the turbulence . <URL> ( CAT ) does not have condensated water in it and is therefore undetectable by conventional radar . There are systems such as LIDAR that can detect CAT but they generally not installed on aircraft . As @reirab noted in a comment , a Doppler radar can be used to detect the relative speed of the particles from an aircraft . This is not used to reliably detect wind speed , but when there are large variations in wind speed ( a.k.a. turbulence ) the Doppler shift in the reflections from the particles causes a spectrum spread . This is an indication for turbulence . The traditional S-band airborne weather radars do not have this capability but the newer X-band radar ( e.g. this <URL> ) can detect wet turbulence to distance of up to 40-60 nautical miles using this technique . LIDAR ( a portmanteau of Light and RADAR ) is a technology that uses light instead of radio waves . LIDAR can measure position and relative velocity of aerosols and therefore it can be used to detect turbulence . It has been used successfully to detect wind shears and map wake vortices on final approach from the ground ( <URL> ) . <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) is going on into airborne use of LIDAR to detect CAT . One of the difficulty is to detect vertical components of the turbulence . This causes very little Doppler shift but at the same time have the most effect on the aircraft ( since the vertical component of turbulence causes changes in angle of attack ) . As far as I know there are currently no commercial applications of LIDAR for airborne turbulence detection .
Almost always a plane going to a boneyeard is flown to the general area . Typically they are taxied , towed or dragged away from the airport itself . CHEAP is the key word in any recycling / 2nd-hand operation . Planes at the end of their economic lives , that can not be flown because of damage or lack of maintenance , tend to be moved out of sight , valuable bits and hazardous materials removed , and the hulk reduced to scrap using normal construction/demolition equipment . The scrappers near Mojave airport work the same way , in a bare dirt lot down the street from the storage adjacent to the airport . I 've been to AMARG * , at Davis-Monthan , to Mojave Airport/Spaceport and a facility for smaller , general aviation , aircraft , Cessna 150s through commuter and business turboprops/jets . The later had a large , grass , field , for last landings . Other planes arrived by truck , in pieces . Most airplane museums are near an airport , but exhibits are less likely to fly in . A plane headed for a museum or restoration shop , even as a donor , is often disassembled and sent by truck , train or ship . But restoration is n't scrapping , the economics are different . * AMARG , or the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group ( previously known as AMARC , the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center )
end question
start question
Is baggage always offloaded when a passenger does not travel ?
Normally , baggage <URL> than self-loading cargo , so your scenario is highly unlikely . In the event of a passenger missing and his/her baggage already on board , all bags need to be unloaded until the orphaned bag is found . When ULDs are used , those must be unloaded first and are then unpacked , mostly on the apron next to the aircraft . Waiting for the missing passenger is an open-ended game . At some point , you must decide on a course of action with a fixed exit so you can move on . Normally , every airline is required to unload an orphaned bag . I am sure <URL> about this than others .
The pilot means : I 'll be back again , so please do n't assign this code to someone else . Less workload for a pilot going in and out of class-B airspaces , and less hassle for the controllers , so they do n't keep assigning a different code to the same plane . The pilot will switch to the <URL> ( 1200 in the USA ) , and then use the one he 's written down and used earlier for future passes .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
How does an oversight like this exist for such an extended period of time ? Because it does n't get reported . Is this something that should be reported ? Yes , it should be reported , otherwise this oversight will exist for an extended period of time . This <URL> contains a link that should be followed to <URL> . Somewhere down those links you 'll find plethora of forms and rather confusing texts which seem not really helpful when you want to report a missing VASI . That brings us back to the answer on your first question . Update : In the comments , Kevin Cathcart pointed out the <URL> which is the appropriate form to flag the problem . Alternatively you can contact the NFDC ( National Flight Data Center ) via phone at 1 - (866) 295-8236 . Does this create a hazard to potential IFR traffic ? Whether it is a potential hazard depends mainly on the presence of other source of vertical guidance . Is there an ILS / gideslope active ? No vertical guidance at all is a safety risk in low visibility conditions .
You assessment is flawed in that it does not take different air density in account . You state the following conditions : FL320 80 kt headwind 355 kt groundspeed 1000 nm distance and you are proposing descending to the following conditions : FL220 40 kt headwind At 32,000 ft , standard conditions are around 275 hPa , 225 K and density of 0.43 kg m $ ^ { -3 } $ . If your 80 kt wind is a pure headwind , a 355 kt groundspeed translates into a 435 kt TAS . If we correct this TAS for the ambient conditions we get an indicated airspeed of about 255 KIAS . This is the airspeed that really matters because it is what the airplane experiences as it interacts with the atmosphere . If we descend to FL220 , where standard conditions are 430 hPa , 244 K and 0.61 m $ ^ { -3 } $ , an airspeed of 255 KIAS yields a TAS of 363 kt TAS . If we have a headwind of 40 its , this yields a groundspeed of 323 kt . This is about 30 kt slower than you were flying at FL320 . A flight of 1000 nm will take about 15 minutes longer to complete . However , it is most likely possible that the airplane you were in is capable of flying faster than 255 KIAS at FL220 and in fact is probably capable of somewhere around 310 KIAS . Flying at 310 KIAS at FL220 will have true airspeed or 440 KTAS and with the 40 kt headwind a ground speed of 400 kt . This will get you to your destination faster , but at the expense of a much higher fuel burn . It is also likely that you could have been flying faster at FL320 ( not sure what max mach number would have been for you ) , but also at the expense of burning more fuel . If the airplane was n't dispatched for the additional fuel burn to go faster at FL220 , then after descending you would probably not have enough fuel to go fast enough to make up the difference in true airspeeds .
There are a few stages where ice prevention or mitigation is relevant . <URL> Very broadly speaking De-Icing activated when airframe ice is noticed . Anti-Ice is activated when a Pilot believes they may enter icing conditions . Ground based De-Ice is applied when icing conditions prevail in the area . Before Takeoff Most , if not all commercial airports offer de-ice facilities if geographically relevant . After the crash of <URL> the FAA took a bit of a harder stance on De-Ice and now stresses the need for mobile De-Ice units to allow planes to be De-Iced without leaving the taxi queue as well as permanent stations as they have always had . A lot of their suggestions are covered in <URL> as well as <URL> . In this case both airline procedure and FAA regulations will dictate the need for De-Ice . Strictly speaking according to <URL> a dispatcher can hold an aircraft if they feel it is not correctly De-Iced . However by the same law a pilot can hold their own departure for the same reason . En Route Once in the air there are a few ways things happen , but generally its ultimately up to the pilot to activate the De-Ice system . On one hand the aircraft POH will more than likely have guidance on when to do this , however , airlines may implement further ( and more strict ) procedures . Some aircraft are equipped with systems that automatically activate in the presence of ice build up . Once in route there are <URL> , Anti Ice : prevents the build up of ice in the first place , heated leading edges etc. . These are activated before entering icing conditions . De-Ice systems : like boots these systems remove ice once its built up . In this case you need to actually enter the conditions and allow the ice to build up first . <URL> The temperature depends on the cloud type but generally speaking low temperature and higher moisture content will create worse issues . <URL> ( <URL> ) Pilots will be alerted to <URL> . These are often quite broad area AIRMET 's . If a pilot believes they are potentially flying into icing conditions they should keep an eye on the airframe for structural icing build up . Many airplanes have icing lights to help at night with this . A pilot can activate the De-Ice system at any point if they feel it is needed .
The claim that de-icing must have been done perfectly in Brussels or the plane would have crashed on take-off is patent nonsense . Ice on the aircraft degrades performance . A little bit of ice degrades performance a little bit ; a lot of ice degrades performance a lot . It 's perfectly possible that they took off from Brussels with slightly degraded performance , realised that there was still some ice on the plane and decided they needed to get rid of it . There 's no reason to suspect a cover-up . If there was even a hint of terrorism , the plane would have diverted to Stansted , not Heathrow . If the plane had some mechanical problem , they 'd have made a vague statement about the plane having mechanical problems , landed , fixed the problem ( which requires maintenance technicians , not a de-icing crew ) , and then said something much less vague to reassure the 227 passengers that the plane was safe . If there was a problem with the passengers , luggage or cargo , the plane would have gone to a terminal . If a vice-president of the company had been served macadamia nuts in the wrong way , they 'd have dealt with that in Brussels .
There is no regulatory requirement for oxygen to be available for anyone on board an aircraft so long as it remains at altitudes of 12,500 ' MSL or less . And only the required minimum flight crew is required to have oxygen if they are flying above 12,500 ' up to and including 14,000 MSL ' IF they will be at those altitudes for more than 30 minutes . <URL> If they were going above 15,000 ' MSL that would be another story . So the short of it is , No , that pilot was not irresponsible , perhaps , maybe slightly inconsiderate , but not irresponsible . The reason for this is the lower density of the air is n't low enough to harm the majority of passengers . Except for extreme cases , such as those with severe and uncontrolled asthma or heavy smokers , the worst thing that would happen would be the passengers would just get sleepy and fall asleep . This is natural , and because the body does not need as much oxygen when asleep . For passengers there generally wo n't be any harm done from a mild case altitude induced hypoxic hypoxia . And YES ! You can ask someone if they will be ' OK ' at higher altitudes ! Just as it is not only ' OK ' but required to ask their weight for weight and balance calculations . ( And quite frankly I believe most people find that more intrusive . ) In fact you should take 5 minutes to tell your passengers that the flight will be in excess of , say 11,000 ' , that way they can be prepared for some unusual effects and not have to worry about them . To take it a step further , remember you are the Pilot in Command and you should be aware of your passenger 's limitations as that may trigger any self imposed safety limitations you have for the safety of the flight . Now , if you just want passengers to be comfortable and/or they absolutely insist on not taking a little nap , then it is entirely up to you if you want to carry a portable aviation oxygen canister with you for your passengers . For further information on hypoxia I would recommend the <URL> on it and the differing effects on pilots , and by extension passengers . Hope this helps !
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
China is well known for having very strict air traffic control , who often are reluctant to give pilots the flexibility to deviate around bad weather or try a different - smoother - flight level ( as I 've experienced first-hand ) . That can lead to aircraft in Chinese airspace encountering more turbulence than in other parts of the world . Secondary to that , China can get some nasty weather : Particularly in the South . Compared to Europe they 'll have more thunderstorms , for example , and that can lead to increased turbulence . This image <URL> gives an overview of the number of lightning strikes around the globe . Aside from a few patches in Italy , China has more lightning - and hence more turbulence due to thunderstorms - than anywhere in Europe . As you mention , the mountainous terrain in some parts of the country also has an effect , although you get that in Europe too .
An aircraft Kitchen is known as the Galley and the picture is from a Lufthansa A380 . Some equipment you will see here are : Food Oven , the door with a black knob in the middle of the picture . Coffee Machine , with the pot , in the right side of the picture . Large Trolleys , filled with food and/or drinks , on the floor . Weight about 25kg empty . Trash Bin , the darker grey unit on the right on the floor . Wheeled off like everything else . Some have proper trash electric trash compactors as well in trolley format . Fuse Panel , located in the middle along the top row . There is in general a fair bit of power going into this area . Smaller Storage Containers , that can handle drinks or bottles for instance . General Storage Space : The galley also provides a bit of space for anything from the children 's toys and newspapers to emergency equipment . You can see some compartments for this in the upper-left corner and a symbol that a smoke hood is stored in one of them . Quick design comment : Aircraft galleys are hotspots for corrosion due to the liquid in the area and is the cause for particular attention during maintenance . Most aircraft galleys are generally very similar in design . Galley equipment comes in 2 basic universal standards - namely ATLAS and KSSU . These have their origins in legacy maintenance resource pools ( ATLAS = Alitalia , TAP , Lufthansa , Air France , Sabena and KSSU = KLM , Swissair , SAS , UTA ) and have subsequently developed into industry standards to enable modular equipment interchange . These standards for instance specify the height , width and depth of trolleys . I gather that ATLAS standard is more prevalent ( 80 % of galleys by one source ) but both exist . Other ideas and concepts have popped up but since changing the stuff is very expensive there 's not been a real push for it . I think I 've also read that the original standard was pretty well thought through . Naturally , this is a long-distance galley that will serve usually two meals . Equipment and size are scaled to the needs of the airline and can vary greatly between operators .
It all depends on the autopilot , but generally no . If for example , you tell the autopilot to climb at 300 fpm , it will keep adjusting pitch to do just that . As you climb higher ( without changing the power ) the autopilot will keep increasing pitch to maintain the set vertical speed . Eventually the airplane will get too slow because of the increased pitch and can even stall . Some autopilots have pitch limits or monitor the stall inputs and automatically disconnect before it gets to this point , but others do n't . It is very important to know your autopilot and to monitor it at all times to make sure that it is doing what you want .
As soon as there 's a fire on board , the absolute top priority is getting everybody out as soon as possible . Aircraft are designed in such a way that , even after a crash landing ( or other serious malfunction ) , the passengers will have a minute or two to evacuate before conditions in the cabin become toxic ( fire , smoke , etc ) ; this is done by using flame-retardant material and burn-through protection , but in an intense fire these wo n't protect the cabin for long , and once they fail no-one will be able to survive inside the aircraft for much longer than that . Smoke inhalation and oxygen deprivation kill just as effectively as being burned . Therefore everyone has to be able to evacuate from the plane within 90 seconds , even assuming the plane is packed to the gills with passengers , and half the exits are inoperative . Given that the aircraft may be damaged after a rough/crash landing , some of the doors may be unusable ( due to fire or smoke just outside them ) , it may be dark in the cabin , and people may be injured and/or panicking , it 's vital that nothing slows down the evacuation . To get an idea of what a 90-second evacuation of a fully-loaded aircraft looks like , see the video of the <URL> - and these passengers were calm , uninjured , and prepared . If passengers take hand luggage with them this is slowed down : The time it takes to get it out of the overhead bins ( with everyone else crushing against you to get out ) . Carrying the luggage down the aisle ( without tripping , hurting yourself or anyone else - again , look at the A380 video , and imagine trying to do that with a suitcase ) . If you lose your luggage , everyone behind you will have to climb over it to get to the exit . Maneuvering your suitcase around the corner to the door , not getting it stuck on the door frame , with people behind you literally shoving you out the door . Plunging down a very steep slide the height of a two-storey building ( or more , in case of the A380 's upper deck ) at high speed , with your suitcase flailing around . At best it whacks you on the head , at worst it punctures and deflates the slide , which given the crush of passengers behind you will probably lead a few people to plummet from the aircraft doors straight to the ground . Assuming you 've made it to the ground , there is someone else plunging down the slide right behind you . If your suitcase slows you down even a little , they will plow right into you , and soon you 'll have a crush of people at the foot of the slide . In this specific case , the fire was fortunately not serious enough to defeat the cabin fire protection before the last passengers had evacuated - but as <URL> said , there are unfortunately other examples where the passengers were not so lucky . To illustrate the risk of fire after landing : <URL> ran off the runway at landing , and despite having little fuel on board , the resulting fire completely destroyed the aircraft ; luckily , everyone evacuated in time . Once there 's been a major malfunction , there is no way to tell how much time you have left to get out - fire can spread very very quickly - and so you have to get out as quickly as possible . Taking luggage with you endangers your life and that of your fellow passengers .
An example of oil labyrinth seal use I 'm taking the bearing sumps example . There are <URL> to maintain the engine rotors and shafts centered within the core and the stators . Some may use labyrinth seals . <URL> <URL> . Pressurized cavity during operation In a bearing sump with classic dry design , oil is provided directly to the bearing , and labyrinths seals maintain oil within a first cavity ( the sump ) . There is another cavity around the first where compressed air is injected . Air is tapped for internal use from a compressor stage ( bleed air ) . <URL> <URL> . This way if oil escapes the first labyrinth of the oil seal , it is contained by the pressure of air coming from the outer cavity on the other side of the seal . Actually air , which is provided at a higher pressure than oil , will enter the inner oil cavity and mix with oil to form a mist . This is why scavenged oil must then be filtered to separate air when returning to the oil tank ( oil must also be cooled has the bearing generates a significant amount of heat ) . Oil is directed to the bearing using jet nozzles , the sump is not completely filled . Someone more knowledgeable may explain why , perhaps an oil <URL> would appear and create unnecessary friction : <URL> Source : <URL> In today 's engines , oil is circulated using pumps . There are two pumps : One to supply with oil and one to scavenge oil . To ensure oil does n't accumulate into the sump , the scavenge pump has a higher capacity . Both pumps are driven by the rotation of the engine . Non operating engine The pumps are mechanical and driven by one of the engine shafts . When the engine is not operating , the pumps stop , oil is not supplied any more and it leaves the sump by the scavenge pipe . Bleed air is n't necessary any longer . When the engine is started , the pumps also start . Oil is therefore injected again into the sump . The bearing can sustain lack of lubrication for a short time , and there can be an emergency system if oil supply from the tank is interrupted . Residual leakage As there will be some limited leakage anyway , oil is extracted by the cavity drain and disposed overboard ( or returned to the oil tank ) .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
The only passenger needs that would result in a non-scheduled landing would be a medical emergency or acts/threats of violence of the level that prompt removal of the passenger is needed ( with law enforcement coordination ) . A passenger forgetting his wallet would not result in a diversion . An aircraft deviation to enplane more passengers and proceeding to the scheduled destination would be a highly unusual situation and would not be for passenger needs , it would be for operational needs .
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
See the <URL> : <URL> 3.9.3.8 Compass Roses Compass roses , as illustrated in Appendix 6 , shall be shown centered on all VHF NAVAIDs , when space allows . Preference shall be given to those serving enroute functions or located in areas not served by other VHF NAVAIDs . <URL> 3.7.4.5 Compasses Roses Compass roses shall be charted centered on those NAVAIDs which have routes predicated on them . Compass roses may be shown around other NAVAIDs where placement of the compass rose does not create additional unnecessary clutter or congestion . If compass roses overlap and congestion hinders readability , the compass rose of the NAVAID with the most congestion may be deleted . Compass roses shall be shown oriented to slave magnetic North . Cardinal direction values shall not be shown . Compass roses shall be .75 " in diameter and in very congested areas may be reduced in size to .5 " in diameter . In groundschool I was taught that this is actually based on <URL> ( which otherwise are n't explicitly marked at all on VFR sectional charts ) : the compass rose is not shown around VORs with Terminal service volumes . This might be a general rule , but it is not entirely true however . You provide a perfect example : OJC and RIS are both Terminal VORs . The key differences : 1 ) OJC has the V10-12 airway , and 2 ) map is more congested around RIS .
end question
start question
What happens when lightning strikes an airplane ?
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
According to <URL> , it is a super-heavy aircraft capable of generating correspondingly super-strong wake vortices . Currently <URL> are the Airbus A380 and Antonov An-225 ( FAA ) .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
In order for a spin to develop , you need two things from the airplane : it must be stalled it must be yawing . Since the airplane is not yawing while in a slip ( it is actually flying straight ahead , although uncoordinated ) , the airplane simply wo n't spin . Instead , when the stall occurs the higher wing ( which has the higher angle of attack ) will stall first , the wing will drop , and the wings will tend level . That being said , it is still a stall and can be dangerous at low altitudes . It can also turn into a spin if you leave the rudder applied as the wings level and you come out of the slip ( and into a skid ) . The best protection for all of this is to watch your airspeed and angle of attack to make sure that you always have sufficient airspeed so that you never stall in the first place . Additional Information Since this has generated some debate , here is additional information : Spin According to <URL> ( emphasis added by me ) : Spins can be entered intentionally or unintentionally , from any flight attitude and from practically any airspeed -- all that is required is sufficient yaw rate while an aircraft is stalled . Yaw So this brings us to <URL> : The yaw axis is defined to be perpendicular to the body of the wings with its origin at the center of gravity and directed towards the bottom of the aircraft . A yaw motion is a movement of the nose of the aircraft from side to side . Skid <URL> actually covers this exact scenario : The skid is more dangerous than the slip if the airplane is close to a stall . In the slip , the raised wing -- the left one if the airplane is turning to the right -- will stall before the lowered one , and the airplane will reduce the bank angle , which prevents the stall . In the skid , the lowered wing will stall before the raised one , and the airplane will tighten the turn , and the stall can develop to a spin . Slip <URL> says : A slip is an aerodynamic state where an aircraft is moving somewhat sideways as well as forward relative to the oncoming airflow or relative wind . In other words , for a conventional aircraft , the nose will be pointing in the opposite direction to the bank of the wing ( s ) . The aircraft is not in coordinated flight and therefore is flying inefficiently . Note that the aircraft is moving sideways . The nose of the aircraft is not moving , and it is therefore not yawing . It also says : Often , if an airplane in a slip is made to stall , it displays very little of the yawing tendency that causes a skidding stall to develop into a spin . A stalling airplane in a slip may do little more than tend to roll into a wings level attitude . In fact , in some airplanes stall characteristics may even be improved .
The FAA has some rules pending about this , you can read <URL> but for drones under 55 LBS one of the proposed rules is , Must yield right-of-way to other aircraft , manned or unmanned . and since you bring up class E it should be noted that Operations in Class B , C , D and E airspace are allowed with the required ATC permission . if/when this goes through it looks like its the drone operators fault since the plane had the right of way According to the <URL> they state that , ( 4 ) the aircraft is operated in a manner that does not interfere with and gives way to any manned aircraft ; this is pretty much a blanket statement that maned aircraft have the right of way but the FAA handles most things on a case by cases basis so in the end of the day it could go either way .
It is very rare for weather to go IMC unexpectedly . A responsible pilot should see that weather is deteriorating , and begin planning for the nearest available landing . If they can not find a landing , they should contact ATC while still in VMC , declare an emergency , and begin working with ATC to get down safely . In some cases , a pilot may inadvertently enter IMC unexpectedly . The standard procedure is to execute a standard rate 180 & deg ; turn , and fly equal time in the opposite direction . That should get them back to VMC conditions . If that does n't work , unfortunately inadvertent flight into IMC is a leading cause of GA accidents , especially CFIT ( Controlled Flight into Terrain - i.e. ' aircraft flew into the ground ' ) . Because of that , even basic private pilot training includes more basic instructions on instrument flying ( BAI ) than it used to .
I believe this is a hoax1 . I 've read through several documents describing the protections provided by Airbus flight laws ( this is not autopilot ; autopilot is a separate layer on top of it ) and have never seen any mention of any kind of ground proximity protection . Only standard ( E ) GPWS which yells " terrain , pull up " . Update : Of course now there is EGPWS that gets aircraft position from GPS and can yell " terrain , pull up " when there is no airport ahead , but 25 years ago there was only GPWS based on radar altimeter which did n't know anything about position and would switch to simply read out2 the radar altimeter value whenever gear ( and maybe also flaps ; not sure here ) was extended . 1Might have been even attempt at <URL> against the then novel technology . 2That is say " one thousand " , " five hundred " , " two hundred " , " one hundred " , " fifty " , " forty " , " thirty " , " twenty " , " retard " 3 ( and " ten " or " five " when it stops saying " retard " and the wheels are not on the ground yet ) . This is useful during approach so the pilot can concentrate less on the instruments and more on outside reference and in the final phase to help judge when flare should be initiated . It will also warn " sink rate " when the sink rate is excessive ( more than -1000 ft/min , the stabilized approach criteria ) . 3At 15 or so feet , if the thrust levers are not in idle gate , the Airbus system starts announcing " retard " and keeps announcing it until the thrust levers are placed in the idle gate ( or reverse ) . This is specific to Airbus . I believe it can also announce " minimums " when approach minima are configured in the flight management system .
It depends on the strength of the tornado and other variables , but in most cases , a plane Vs tornado will end very very badly for the aircraft and its occupants in a low altitude high speed scenario . A good example would be the <URL> , a <URL> that flew into a thunderstorm 8 minutes into takeoff and crashed after the wing was torn off . From the <URL> : At 17:12 the aircraft entered a tornado , which resulted in loads on the airframe increasing to +6.8 G and -3,2 G . The right wing was bent upwards followed by a severe downward sweep . This compromised the structural integrity of the wing , causing a large portion of the outer wing to separate in an upward and rearward motion . Control was lost and the aircraft impacted a railway bridge inverted . Everyone abroad the aircraft perished . FAA is <URL> : Pilots should observe the following rules for any flight routed even potentially near actual or possible thunderstorm activity : • Avoid all thunderstorms . And also , Although pilots have flown through limited state thunderstorms with little or no damage to the aircraft or passengers , these pilots should consider themselves extremely fortunate to be alive . ( emphasis original ) . Note : I 've used both thunderstorms and tornadoes here . <URL> defines them as : Thunderstorm : A storm ( produced by a cumulonimbus cloud ) that includes rain showers , lightning , and thunder . Tornado : A violently rotating column of air that extends down from the base of a thunderstorm to the ground .
You have 3 questions : What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? As mentioned in the other answers : A solenoid removes a retention pin . This allows a spring-driven pawl to engage a worm gear on the drive input shaft . This causes the inner input shaft to disengage from the engine drive . Thus the generator drive rapidly coasts to a stop . <URL> Source : <URL> What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? The primary reason to disconnect the generators is when some mechanical problem causes a risk of serious mechanical damage to them . From <URL> : Condition : Low IDG oil pressure or high IDG oil temperature . Crew Response : Affected GENERATOR DRIVE DISCONNECT switch PUSH . Note : This action prevents damage to the IDG . DRIVE DISC message is displayed . ELECT GEN OFF message is displayed . A lesser reason might be to prevent a seized-up generator drive from adversely affecting an otherwise operable engine . Since whatever caused the loss of oil ( pressure ) and/or overheating almost never can be corrected in the air , then there is no point in being able to reengage the generator drives in the air . Furthermore , to provide that capability would require complex mesh gears , clutches , and mechanisms that would add considerable weight and more points of failure -- all to cover a contingency that is both rare and very unlikely to be critical ( discounting sabotage ) . Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? Most large jet aircraft use some form of Constant speed drive ( CSD ) to power their electrical generators , as the alternatives are not well suited to the large electrical demands of jetliners . From Wikipedia , we see that <URL> .
It depends on the seat . Most modern seats , including the ACES II system common in US Fighter Jets , fall away from the pilot at a pre-determined altitude . <URL> Once out of the plane , a drogue gun in the seat fires a metal slug that pulls a small parachute , called a drogue parachute , out of the top of the chair . This slows the person 's rate of descent and stabilizes the seat 's altitude and trajectory . After a specified amount of time , an altitude sensor causes the drogue parachute to pull the main parachute from the pilot 's chute pack . At this point , a seat-man-separator motor fires and the seat falls away from the crewmember . The person then falls back to Earth as with any parachute landing . Generally , according to that link , this occurs at just over 100-200 feet above ejection height . However , if you eject at high altitude , such as Captain Scott O'Grady did ( 26,000 ft ) , the seat will fall away on a sensor ( either 10,000 or 18,000 feet , I do n't recall which ) . The chute may open automatically , or if it is not set to at that height , you can then pull the chute manually , or wait until its set height to open .
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
It depends on the aircraft . In any aircraft where the two control columns are linked , there 's only one input to command the control surfaces . While most smaller aircraft are connected directly through the control surfaces , Boeing publicizes that on the 787 - a fly-by-wire aircraft - the control columns " <URL> " On Airbus aircraft ( and probably others ) , the controls are not linked : there is no indication on one pilot 's controls of the other 's position . The computer handles this by adding the two inputs : opposite commands will cancel each other out , while both pilots commanding the same input will <URL> . Some Airbus aircraft have a feature which makes an announcement of " DUAL INPUT " when there is input on both sidesticks simultaneously . As of <URL> , this was " an installation " ( optional feature , I believe ) on the A320 and under development for the A340 . Airbus aircraft also have a <URL> , which lets one pilot take control and have the airplane ignore inputs from the other sidestick . As Farhan noted , good <URL> is also very important to ensure that only one command is given at once . Some aircraft have linked controls , which can be separated if necessary . On the 767 , if sufficient force is applied , the elevators will " split " : each control column will control one of the elevators . The pilot who is stronger or better prepared will have <URL> . There 's also the <URL> : The roll input is ... linked at the control column [ . ] Each yoke independently controls its own aileron -- the CA yoke only flies the left aileron and the FO yoke the right aileron . It is only through the control column linkage that each yoke can control the whole airplane . It is done this way so that if there is a problem with a cable jamming , the control interlock can be disconnected and at least half control regained .
The maneuver Bob Hoover is performing is a specific kind of roll called a <URL> . If you look at the path traced by this maneuver it is a corkscrew rather than a linear path that you might be imagining . Because the airplane is rotating about a longitudinal axis as it translates forward there is <URL> toward the axis of rotation , or " up " in the reference frame of the person in the airplane . To the observer in the reference frame of the airplane ( e.g. the pilot or a passenger ) , the centripetal acceleration is interpreted as the fictitious centrifugal force . This is exactly the same mechanism that you experience when driving around tight curves , though the force is in a different direction . The end result in the airplane is that for a properly executed barrel roll , the centripetal acceleration causes the net force you experience inside the airplane to remain constant throughout the roll ( in your reference frame , with the net force pointed " down " ) . If you were to close your eyes you would not know the plane rolled . Likewise , the iced tea does not " know " it is upside down . For a less dramatic demonstration , next time you are on a commercial airplane pay attention to when the plane is banking and turning and note that a cup of water on the tray does n't notice the turn . The cup stays in place and the fluid remains level ( with reference to the airplane ) . You can also demonstrate this with a small bucket and some rope . Put some water in the bucket , tie the rope to the bucket and swing it in a circle vertically ( be careful ) . The water stays in the bucket if you swing it fast enough , and this is the same mechanism you see in Bob Hoover 's video except it is the whole airplane being swung around in a circle like the bucket .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
If an invalid signal is received , then it must be modulated since it is only by measuring the modulation , that the receiver knows if the signal is valid and where it is relative to the localiser and glideslope . An unmodulated carrier on the same frequency is additive . An unmodulated carrier on a different frequency will not affect the receiver ( ignoring possible harmonics of course ) . I suppose that if you could increase the power enough , an unmodulated signal might cause the signal to noise ratio to drop so low that the failure flag would show .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
In the event of a passenger dying on an airplane during flight , each case is different depending on the location of the airplane , the duration of that flight and the wishes of family or friends traveling with the deceased passenger . What happens to the flight ? If the death occurs before takeoff or shortly after takeoff , the airplane is landed back to that airport or the nearest airport . If it happens mid-flight , normally the flight is continued to its destination . Where is the deceased passenger placed ? If there is a seat available in first or business classes , the deceased person is moved there and covered with a blanket . If it is a full flight , that person may simply be strapped in more tightly and covered . This is done to ensure that the body is out of view of other passengers . A deceased person is never placed in the lavatory . It is not respectful and a major security concern . What happens at arrival airport ? The arrival airport is informed in advance about the situation . Hence police , ambulance and coroner are available . Some airlines keep body bags on board . Normally the deceased person is placed on a stretcher and is carried from the rear exit of the airplane using a lift truck and then placed in an ambulance . This might be done after other passengers have exited the airplane . What are the regulations ? FAA have regulations addressing several emergencies , but not specifically this one . An FAA spokesperson <URL> : FAA spokesman Les Dorr said he was unaware of any policies that specifically address what should be done if someone dies in flight . The airlines make those decisions on their own . <URL> mentions some incidents of this situation happening . <URL> is a company which provides airlines with medical help from emergency care doctors on the ground . They <URL> : ... there is one death for every 8 million passengers from the airlines [ they ] serve ...
For decades , there was no wind tunnel testing performed . There will be , of course , more unknowns about performance and flight characteristics , but with modern computer simulation technology those can be greatly reduced .
It is usually required to file a flight plan for international flights ( with very few exceptions ) , and I 'll assume this is the case for Canada/US as well , but I 'm not 100 % sure of this . In this case you have two options You close your flight plan and let ATC or FSS know where you are , they 'll note it 's an international flight that landed somewhere without customs , and you 're likely to end up in trouble . You do n't close your flight plan , and you 'll trigger a search-and-rescue operation as you 'll eventually be overdue , drawing attention to yourself , and you 're equally likely to end up in trouble . Not to mention that you 'll probably be liable for the cost of the search-and-rescue . You could of course file a plan with a drastically reduced TAS , do a very quick stop , and arrive at the original destination within the grace period . I do n't know if that will trigger any surveillance systems though . If you do n't file a flight plan and cross the border anyway , I 'm guessing that you will indeed trigger some alerts though .
These days , with digital recording , it 's likely that nothing special happens . " Mark the tape " is a holdover from when ATC recordings were actually on tapes - you could ask a controller to " mark " a tape to hold it and prevent it being recycled for another recording while your <URL> is being processed . ( Anecdotally I 've been told some facilities had tape rotations as short as 15 days , and a FOIA request letter could easily take longer than that to make it to the facility ) . Today much ( probably most ) of what is said on the frequency is recorded digitally , direct to hard drives , and kept around " essentially forever " as one of our local controllers put it when this came up at a recent event . Basically the virtual " tapes " stick around for as long as the facility 's recording machine has disk space to store them , and since audio files are n't that big facilities can store recordings a lot longer than they did in the days of tape . All that 's really needed to pull a record to review it with a controller/supervisor is the date , time , facility , and frequency ( and your aircraft callsign would probably be helpful too ) - e.g. " April 4 , 2014 - JFK Local Control for Runway 04R ( 119.1 ) - United 123 Heavy " . " Mark the tape and give me a phone number " survives as non-standard phraseology that lets the controller know that you will likely have a bone to pick with someone when you get on the ground and gives them the opportunity to tell their supervisor that an annoyed pilot will be calling the facility in the near future ( and hopefully give the supervisor time to listen to the tape ) . The useful part is really getting the facility phone number so you know who to call when you land .
end question
start question
How are type ratings created for new aircraft types ?
Seems you guessed right , actually . <URL> does indicate that you can get a letter of authorization in lieu of a type rating : B. Requirements for Aircraft Undergoing Certification . During the type certification process , it is sometimes necessary for industry pilots or FAA inspectors with airman certification responsibility to be qualified in a particular aircraft before a pilot certificate type rating designator is established for that aircraft . In these circumstances , and at the discretion of the manager of the aircraft evaluation group ( AEG ) , an LOA ( Figure 5-187 ) may be issued in lieu of a type rating . This LOA and Letter of Application ( Figure 5-188 ) must be in the pilot 's possession when exercising the authorized privileges . The LOA can eventually be surrendered to a district office in exchange for a temporary airman certificate bearing the category , class , and type ratings .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
Wind is measured in true airspeed . That 's why whether it 's surface wind or a jet stream , subtracting the head/tail wind component from the airplane 's TAS yields the ground speed ( tailwind being a negative value ) . And a 25 knots crosswind -- the example you give -- will create the same crab angle for the same TAS being flown . But since pilots fly using IAS , the crab angle will be smaller the higher the airport . Cup Think of a cup anemometer , if the air is lighter ( high altitude , high temp ) , there will be lower resistance and the same wind speed will result in the <URL> : The remarkable thing is that the calibration does not depend on the air density . Who would have guessed ? The cup anemometer responds to wind forces , and those wind forces have a magnitude directly proportional to density . Yet because in a steady state those forces are balanced , density vanishes as a factor . The same thing applies to the propeller-vane anemometer . Tube In tube anemometers ( <URL> ) , corrections are <URL> : [ Due ] to differing temperature , elevation or barometric pressure , a correction is required to obtain the actual wind speed . Approximately 1.5 % ( 1.6 % above 6,000 feet ) should be added to the velocity recorded by a tube anemometer for each 1000 ft ( 5 % for each kilometer ) above sea-level . Ultrasonic Ultrasonic anemometers are like cup anemometers , density is cancelled out since measurements are taken in <URL> : [ Scalar ] values ( temperature , humidity , density ) are eliminated and the result comprises wind speed .
Really not sure what you 're asking , nor do I know what these terms you 've found mean , so let 's start with these drawings and see where we end up . DC-9 Bleed air enters from the engine ( or APU ) at bottom left of this drawing and enters the primary heat exchanger . Then it enters the compressor in the ACM and then on to the secondary heat exchanger . From here it enters the turbine and this is the point that the heat loss occurs and cold air enters the water separator and then the cabin of the airplane . Note the anti-ice screen and the pack anti-ice valve which adds a little heat if the air exiting the turbine is too cold and is causing ice . The water separator is a cone-shaped cage with a heavy cotton bag over it . This collects condensation in the air and dumps it on to the face of the secondary heat exchanger to cool and improve it 's efficiency . Temperature in the cabin is controlled by the temperature control valve on the left side of the drawing . 737 This system is very similar to the DC-9 and really the main difference is that the pack anti-ice valve here is operated electrically , while on the DC-9 it is done mechanically with a pneumatically operated valve . 757/767 This is a much different system , many more electrical sensors and control . The pack cooling fan is an integral part of the ACM , where on the other two systems they are separate components . The water separators are much more advanced and do n't require regular maintenance like on the other systems . As you can see , these three systems are all basically the same with the only real difference being how they are controlled and some of the ancillary components .
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
There is no civillian autopilot for an F-16 , because there are no non-military F-16s . Ditto with the F-117 or or B-1 or B-2 , so who knows what unique modes those autopilots have for their uniquely military missions ( i.e. dropping bombs or low level terrain following ) . However , when the military aircraft has a non-military equivalent ( KC-10 / DC-10 , KC-135 / B707 , C-40 / T-43 / B737 , C-21 / Learjet , T-44 / C-12 / KingAir , etc ) then the autopilots are generally identical . Any differences are more likely to be found in FMC software rather than in the Autopilot , and those differences would be very specific to each aircraft &amp; its mission .
I ca n't speak for General Aviation , but based on the number of tapes I 've seen , it would n't be outside the scope of reality to think the aircraft manufacturers have a partnership with 3M to come up with as many different types of tape as possible . For wiring repairs alone , I know our shop keeps at least 20 various types of tape on hand in our bench stock area to grab in a hurry . There are probably another 20-30 other types of tape we may use in rarer situations , but do n't keep on hand . We 'll usually order that on an as needed basis . There are a number of different types of " Speed Tape " as well . These are commonly used as very temporary structural fixes for small holes , dents , etc. . . on certain parts of the aircraft . It looks a lot like a sheet of aluminum foil , but it 's some of the stickiest stuff I 've ever dealt with . I know we also have different Mylar tapes that are used for a number of different applications . One of the applications , in particular , is when floor panels are sealed . The sealant can take 24-30 hours , in some cases , for a tack free cure . Since we want to use the airplane sooner , we can cover it with Mylar tape . It 'll allow it to cure while under the tape . After the cure , we 'll simply pull the tape up and continue business as usual . There are a number of other specialized tapes I 've seen for various other applications . I do know that I have seen duct tape on bleed duct insulation . This is rare , but sometimes the insulation gets torn and people use duct tape to repair it . Quite frankly , I 've never stopped to look and see what the approved tape is for that , but if there was one and only one application for duct tape , that might be it . I ca n't offer you an exact number , but they most certainly number in the hundreds if not thousands ! Oh , and one other thing I 've noticed is that Boeing tapes are usually different than the tapes specified by Airbus ! So , each manufacturer has chosen certain tapes for certain applications and purposes , although some are interchangeable . If you really wanted to get crazy and technical , each tape comes in different widths too . All of these come in standard widths of 1/4 " , 1/2 " , 1 " , 2 " , and 3 " . I 'm sure there are other width 's too , but I know I 've seen all of those sizes . Quite frankly , it 's dizzying and unbelievable how much tape is on an airplane !
Airbus used standard Intel 80186 and Motorola 68010 CPUs with 2.5 MiB of memory in the FBW system for A320 . Exactly the same chips that were used for computers at the time ( around 1985 ) so they were not expensive and were already tested . Over time they upgraded to newer version of those CPUs . Each computer is composed from two boards with different CPUs , one produces the control output and the other verifies it and shuts the unit down if they disagree . The boards run different standard embedded operating systems and the software was written by two independent teams to minimize risk of the same failure mode in both boards . Each board only does a little bit of work and the important units have backups . There are 4 units processing the sidestick input , 3 controlling elevator and ailerons , 3 controlling spoilers and elevator trim , IIRC 2 for yaw damper ( FAC ) , 2 for each engine digital control , 1 for each display etc. . The requirements did n't really increase much since then . It is still desired that the tasks are split across many independent boards to minimize effects of one of them failing . So a CPU with few MHz clock rate and few MB of memory would still be able to do the job . But such slow chips are not manufactured anymore , so they are probably using whatever was most common chips few years ago .
Are there general aviation aircraft that have more than 2 " ranges " Yes . <URL> . The loading graphs look like this : Note also that the aircraft is certificated in both the Normal and Utility category , and the weight/CG ranges are different ( Utility being a subset of what 's permissible for Normal category operations ) - so there are two different operating envelopes that must be considered .
Testing is performed for specific reasons . As you noted testing for certification and testing production aircraft are not the same . Testing for certification is to establish that the design of the aircraft meets airworthiness standards . A guide is available in the form of <URL> . Testing production aircraft is primarily a quality control issue and serves to prove that the aircraft is built to the drawings -- that it complies with the approved design . It 's only a small part of the process and is discussed in section 2.7 of <URL> . As noted , in the AC a flight test is required ( with one exception ) . Production testing will evolve over time as there is a constant effort to 1 . ensure adequate test coverage to avoid quality ' escapes ' and 2 . to do it as efficiently as possible to minimize costs . One other test that is typically performed is an acceptance test . This is not regulatory . It is contractual and is performed with the participation of the customer . Airlines wo n't accept delivery of an aircraft until they 're satisfied it meets everything they 're paying for . A friend of mine who worked for an airline 's engineering group said it was about a 4 or 5 day process to checkout and accept delivery of a plane .
Two words : chase planes . A few more words : The easiest way to film an airplane in flight is with another airplane in flight . <URL> , including images captured from both sides ; the chase plane ( a Learjet 25B ) getting the shots of the 787 Dreamliner , and crew aboard the Dreamliner getting a few snapshots of the chase plane . Early shots taken from chase planes often used simple handheld cameras ; a two-seater would normally be used with the pilot in front and the photographer in back . This is still a totally viable way to do it , but more modern professional shoots utilize aircraft specifically modified for the task by adding internal or external camera mounts , optical-quality viewports , etc. . Here 's a modified T-33 used by Boeing specifically for air-to-air photography , including some of the initial publicity shots of the 787 in flight ; notice the camera mount between the seats that can be used by the GIB ( he 's using a handheld in this photo : For lower-speed shots , you can also use a helicopter . Many of these such as news choppers have remote-control cameras on gyro-stabilized mounts , so the vibration of the airframe is minimized in the shot even at high zoom : These same camera systems can be used for air-to-air shots as well , however the maximum airspeed of the helicopter becomes a limiting factor . Still great for publicity shots of small prop planes , or takeoffs/landings .
No . There is no single NDT method that can identify all types of structural faults in the aircraft . Active thermography refers to the use of ( thermal ) exciters like ultrasound , ( halogen and xenon ) lamps , eddy current transducers and detecting the defects using that fact that the heat produced is different in those areas , usually using infrared cameras . Though this is a very effective method for detecting defects , especially in composites , there are some disadvantages as well . The test specimen has to be ' hooked up ' to some form of ( thermal ) loading device . This limits the size of the tested part . This is an excellent method for detecting subsurface defects ; however , as the depth of the defect increases , the defect size has to be larger for detection . The method requires that the temperature of the region ( containing the defect ) be uniform . This is a problem especially for materials with high thermal diffusivity like metals , which may require high speed IR cameras . Though automated algorithms are available for defect detection , most of the ( older ) methods of thermography depend on the operator for interpretation of results . The type of excitation technique used can be limited in some cases to prevent damage to the tested part .
They are flown to their customers by either Boeing or pilots from the given airline . As for the Boeing factory its self , the <URL> users Paine Field as their runway . If you look closely there is a <URL> and connects the plant to the main ramp of the airport . This appears to be painted for car traffic but is also used for aircraft . The <URL> lies adjacent to Renton Municipal which it uses to fly the aircraft in and out there <URL> . Similarly the main airbus factory is located next to <URL> . <URL> lies next to <URL> .
By not flying through thunderstorms . For a small aircraft , the lightning is not the most hazardous part of a cumulonimbus ( Cb ) cloud system . Mature Cb clouds have huge updrafts underneath them , which can cause enough turbulence to upset most aircraft . Heavy rain and hail is also commonplace underneath Cb clouds . Even the rain can be heavy enough to damage wooden propellers and any components on your leading edge ( such as the <URL> found on the Tiger Moths I fly ) . Hail can put holes in your canvas , which are expensive to repair - if you manage to get the aircraft home at all . This turbulence and rain persists for a much longer period and across a wider area than the thunderstorm itself . For these reasons , the chief protection against thunderstorms is by training and procedure : student pilots are taught to avoid Cb clouds when they 're visible , and to plan flights to avoid areas where Cb are forecast . Weather forecasts and reports specially call out Cb clouds to help with this , and ATIS messages often warn of " cumulonimbus cloud in the vicinity of the aerodrome " . Protecting a wooden aircraft specifically against lightning is not hugely worthwhile , because it 's unlikely to be able to stay in the vicinity of the Cb cloud for long enough to be at risk of a lightning strike . It just wooden happen .
Almost always a plane going to a boneyeard is flown to the general area . Typically they are taxied , towed or dragged away from the airport itself . CHEAP is the key word in any recycling / 2nd-hand operation . Planes at the end of their economic lives , that can not be flown because of damage or lack of maintenance , tend to be moved out of sight , valuable bits and hazardous materials removed , and the hulk reduced to scrap using normal construction/demolition equipment . The scrappers near Mojave airport work the same way , in a bare dirt lot down the street from the storage adjacent to the airport . I 've been to AMARG * , at Davis-Monthan , to Mojave Airport/Spaceport and a facility for smaller , general aviation , aircraft , Cessna 150s through commuter and business turboprops/jets . The later had a large , grass , field , for last landings . Other planes arrived by truck , in pieces . Most airplane museums are near an airport , but exhibits are less likely to fly in . A plane headed for a museum or restoration shop , even as a donor , is often disassembled and sent by truck , train or ship . But restoration is n't scrapping , the economics are different . * AMARG , or the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group ( previously known as AMARC , the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center )
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
The FAA specifies the airplanes that require a type rating in <URL> : Sec . 61.31 - Type rating requirements , additional training , and authorization requirements . ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . So in short , large aircraft ( meaning that they weigh more than 12,500 lbs . ) , aircraft having turbojet engines , or any airplane deemed suitable complex that it needs it by the FAA need a type rating in order to fly it as PIC .
As a tower controller , in case of an unexpected unusual situation for an aircraft on final approach , this will be my list of priorities : Clear the runway of other traffic Determine if fire and rescue services need to get involved ( Call fire and rescue services ) Call approach and ask them to stop inbound traffic . In case of other traffic on final behind the emergency , coordinate missed approaches Instruct other aircraft on final to go around , in accordance with the coordination with approach The above points will take me no more than 30 seconds to get through . This takes care of the most immediate priorities . I will then await the landing of the emergency plane , and coordinate with fire and rescue as appropriate . As for departing traffic on the ground - aircraft on their gate will be instructed to stay there . Aircraft taxiing to the runway will either continue to the runway holding point or be turned around to a gate , if available - this depends on whether I expect the runway to be closed for a long time ( say , more than 20 minutes ) . The same , more or less , applies to VFR traffic in the control zone intending to land . They can hold in the air if I expect to reopen the runway shortly , otherwise they might have to find an alternate ; I will coordinate any diversions with approach . Once I have a hold of my own traffic , I will call the operational supervisor and inform them of the situation . They will take care of stopping additional inbound traffic if required , and coordinating with adjacent units and sectors . I might also call approach again directly to let them know how the situation is developing . It will be up to approach , in cooperation with the supervisor and based on the information I provide , to determine if aircraft on initial approach should be diverted , or if they can hold in the air awaiting a runway reopening . Each individual aircraft will require individual handling , to determine if , where and how they want to divert . Once the runway is reopened ( after fire and rescue have finished their work , the emergency airplane has been removed , runway inspection carried out and so on ) , I will coordinate with approach and the supervisor to start inbound traffic again ( possibly with a reduced rate ) , and start getting my own departures rolling again . As you can see , there are a lot of " if 's " in the above . A lot of decisions have to be made , and the basis for making said decisions changes depending on the situation . There is no set checklist or rulebook for when something like this happens , because the required actions will vary . But that is what we get paid for after all - as an air traffic controller you have to be creative and flexible , especially when unusual situations occur .
The idle speed adjustment in any engine is to control the minimum RPM that an engine reaches , in other words how quickly it will run with the throttle all the way off . You want the idle speed to be high enough that the engine will not stop running when the throttle is pulled back , but not so high that it wastes fuel . On a carbureted engine the idle speed is typically adjusted using a set screw which allows a mechanic to quickly adjust the idle speed . This would be done when the airplane is serviced as part of its regular maintenance , or out of the service cycle if there 's a reported problem . The idle speed adjustment is unrelated to the mixture control and is not adjustable in flight .
There are two aspects here , one what is required legally and then what may be required locally . From a legal standpoint ( in your case ) the basic PPL will allow you to fly single engine , fixed pitch prop , under 200HP , fixed gear aircraft . If you want to go over 200 HP you will need a High Performance check out and log book endorsement . For a constant speed prop/folding gear/movable flap ( all 3 are required to require this endorsement ) plane you will need a complex endorsement in your log book . You may want to fly something like a Piper Cub which will require a tail wheel endorsement . If you are lucky enough ( and have the funding to do so ) you may find your self in a small pressurized single ( or twin ) like the <URL> or <URL> these planes will require a high altitude checkout as well . <URL> . If you want the full <URL> . Now as for a club or school that depends on a variety of factors including their insurance and their personal limits . I 'll offer some personal experience which seems to be pretty par for the course . The flight school I fly from requires a checkout in type from every new renter before you can fly it even if you have a PPL and the proper endorsements . They do n't have an official amount of time but it usually takes about an hour with an instructor . The former flight school I was at had the same deal with the exception of their Saratoga which they also required an instrument rating ( along with their checkout ) . My buddy 's flight club is somewhat similar . They require a check out in their Archer and Dakota to fly solo . They also have a <URL> . As for your log book you should be logging the full type of aircraft for every flight . For example when I fly the Warrior I make sure to note PA-28-161 and the Archer I fly is noted as PA-28-181 when I record hours this way I can note time in type at a detailed level . For what its worth with the PA-28 airframe it seems that some places to allow you to fly the lower rated planes if you are checked out in the higher power ones . The same basic frame was built in a 140 , 160 , 180 and 235HP variant over the years and has little differences aside from useful load and V speeds . For example at the place I go if you are checked out in the Archer first you are allowed to fly the Warrior with out a checkout . This will also extend to ownership should that be the path you go down . In that case you insurance company may require a certain amount of hours of time in type before you are allowed to solo your plane . Keeping that in mind you are not actually prevented from buying the plane and will be insured under the stipulation that the first hours in the plane are with an instructor . When a buddy of mine ( instrument rated and close to 600 hours at the time ) upgraded from his 72 Archer to a 95 Saratoga HP his insurance company mandated he do 25 hours in type with an instructor before taking the plane solo . The first 25 hours he flew his plane were with an instructor ( this included transporting the plane from the factory in Vero Beach to his home field ) . You can legally fly both planes once you have your PPL . What someone will let you fly should be pretty well addressed above . Neither the 172 or 152 requires a specific type rating like larger planes do .
end question
start question
Am I required to have my Radiotelephone Operator 's Restricted Certificate ( Aeronautical ) on-board the aircraft with me ?
There is no requirement to have the certificate with you on board during flight . The holder of a radio authorization shall , at the request of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Act , show the radio authorization or a copy thereof to the inspector within 48 hours after the request . Source : <URL>
Small aircraft need very low mounted wings to allow for a decent cabin height . The last commercial airliner which required the passengers to climb over the wing spar on their way to their seat was the <URL> . Low wings do not allow the necessary space for engines , so the next best location is on the rear fuselage . Also , small aircraft have a relatively short fuselage , and the gear can be made short ( and light ) without risking a tail strike on rotation . Fighters need to have small moments of inertia , especially in roll , so they can not afford to put engines on the wings . Even the Me-262 was initially planned with fuselage-mounted engines , that 's why it had this peculiar triangular fuselage cross section . Only when the engines grew in diameter during development they had to be placed on the wing . Pros of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : The wing is clean , having low drag and optimum conditions for lift creation . The engines are easy to access ( if mounted at the rear fuselage . Different story with buried engines ! ) . Smaller vertical tail needed for asymmetric thrust conditions . Shorter , lighter landing gear possible ( if rotation capability is not compromised ) . Low roll inertia . Cons of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : No bending relief for the wing ; heavier wing spar needed . No help in flutter supression ( a mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) . Possible interference with wing wake at high angle of attack . Forces the tail to be a T-tail configuration . More structure needed to carry the thrust forces forward . Intake noise is more audible , especially for passengers in the rear seats . This picture of a Cessna Citation X should illustrate the point nicely .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
The AIM gives good advice , but that is really all it is . It is acceptable methods of complying with the regulations , but you are not required to comply with what the AIM says . In questions of what you are required to do , especially in questions of whether you might be at risk for a violation , we want to look at the regulations in 14 CFR . <URL> states , in pertinent part : No person may : ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise [ ... ] -- ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; ( 2 ) Park or move an aircraft in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport unless the aircraft -- ( i ) Is clearly illuminated ; ( ii ) Has lighted position lights ; or ( iii ) is in an area that is marked by obstruction lights ; ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . Note : Position Lights are commonly called Nav Lights Anticollision Lights can include what are more commonly called Strobe Lights and Beacon Lights ( See AIM 4-3-23 ) Lets first look at what the above regulation says about operating requirements . Is your given scenario ( engine off , etc. ) an example of operating the aircraft ? <URL> gives the following definition of operate : Operate , with respect to aircraft , means use , cause to use or authorize to use aircraft , for the purpose ( except as provided in § 91.13 of this chapter ) of air navigation including the piloting of aircraft , with or without the right of legal control ( as owner , lessee , or otherwise ) . By that definition I would argue that towing , pushing , or otherwise moving an unoccupied aircraft with engine ( s ) shut off would not be operating that aircraft anymore than leaving the aircraft parked overnight would be operating it , since you are not using the aircraft for the purpose of air navigation . Thus I would say that you are not required to follow any rules that pertain to operating the aircraft , such as that any installed anticollision light be lighted . ( This is in contrast to an airliner pushing back with a load of passengers , flight crewmembers at their stations , electrical power on , APU running , etc. , which would be operating , since the aircraft is being used . ) This leaves us with the Park or move paragraph . This paragraph specifically pertains to " in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport " . What is a night flight operations area ? Absent any proffered definition , the plain reading of the phrase -- as I read it -- would be an area used , or subject to use , for flight operations at night . In other words , any public use airport with an apron or taxiway that is open to flight operations at night could and should be considered -- by my reading -- a night flight operations area . Whether the area is a movement or non-movement area should n't matter . Could someone else reasonably taxi past you ( or into you ! ) at night ? That 's probably a night flight operations area . Thus , for your given scenario , if you are pushing your aircraft back into a tie-down spot on an apron that is open to night flight operations , by regulation it must be either : a ) clearly illuminated ; b ) have lighted position lights ; or c ) be in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I typically see airport ramps clearly illuminated by large overhead lights . This clearly meets the first requirement . Another means of compliance would be to turn on an internal hanger light to clearly illuminate the airplane when you push an airplane in off a taxiway into a hanger . You are also good to go if you are in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I do n't think I have ever seen these demarcating an area where you would be pushing or towing an airplane ( I 'm thinking of those lighted construction barriers ) , but if you saw them I suppose you would know . In the absence of clear illumination or an area marked by obstruction lights , if you are going to park or move the airplane at night , you had better turn on the position lights . And this , I think , is where you could be at risk for a violation . Note that , even in that case , the requirement is for position lights , not the beacon . Unless the aircraft is being operated , there is no requirement that any installed anticollision light be lighted .
From a private pilot 's perspective , there are two possible options : a foreign-based license or a ' full ' FAA pilot 's license . The first type is defined in <URL> , which starts like this : § 61.75 Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license . ( a ) General . A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section . You apply to the FAA and they check with Germany ( or wherever ) that your foreign license is valid . If it is , they 'll issue a foreign-based license " with the appropriate ratings " with no flight or theory test of any kind required . That 's for VFR only ; if you 're instrument rated then you also have to do a theory test as well if you want to fly IFR . That sounds great - and I suppose it is - but there are two big practical concerns . First , any limitations on the foreign license are applied , e.g. if your license is for daytime VFR only then you 're still restricted to that , even if a regular FAA license would allow night VFR . And if your foreign license expires or becomes invalid for any reason , the FAA one does too . Second , you wo n't have been required to learn anything about US regulations or flying practices . So you might not fly safely or legally because you simply do n't know the rules or even what services are available to you as a pilot ( FSS , Flight Following , TRSA etc. ) . One way to handle this is to get some general orientation or introductory training from a US instructor or school , but as a foreigner that will require TSA approval unless you can do it as ground school only ( which is <URL> as " flight training " ) . But you might find - as I did - that some instructors will not work with a foreign student at all until they have TSA approval , whether or not it 's just ground work . The other option is to get a normal , full FAA license . You have to pass the same FAA medical , written and flight tests as US pilots to the same <URL> . You can count your previous flight time towards the required hours but you do need to be able to pass the tests so you will certainly need some instruction . And as a foreigner you will need TSA approval before you can receive any flight training . The big advantage of getting a full license is that it never expires . If you really want to get one and you have the time and money then you could look into spending a month somewhere suitable in the US ( Florida ? Arizona ? ) at a flight school to get it as quickly and cheaply as possible .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
If I wish to downgrade my software 's design assurance level ( DAL ) from Level A to Level C , what do I need to do ? DAL level A software is software which , if it fails , may have " catastrophic " results , defined as " Failure may cause multiple fatalities , usually with loss of airplane . " DAL level C , " Failure significantly reduces the safety margin or significantly increases crew workload . May result in passenger discomfort ( or even minor injuries ) . " So , to move your software from DAL level A to DAL level C , you 'll have to reduce the responsibility of your software . Your software 's operation or failure to operate can not : result in passenger major injury or fatality produce a large negative impact on safety or performance of the aircraft reduce the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due to physical distress or higher workload ( though significant increases in workload is acceptable at Level C ) At most , your software 's operation or failure to operate may : Significantly reduce safety margins Significantly increase crew workload Result in passenger discomfort or minor injury If you can change your software , or change your customer 's use of the software ( ie , can not be used or installed as part of a safety critical control system ) , then the certifying authorities may allow your software to be certified at Level C . What are the benefits and drawbacks of doing this ? There are only 62 objectives that have to be met , and of those only 8 have to be verified by someone independent of the person who implemented the code that falls under that objective . While the number of objectives is only reduced a little ( 71 vs 62 ) , the number requiring independent verification is cut by over 75 % from 33 to 8 . This significantly reduces the amount of work required to meet certification requirements , mostly in traceability . The major drawback is that your software can not be used or incorporated into systems which require a higher level of compliance . So if your software is designed to control actuators and is currently certified to Level A , you might find that it 's being used to control flight surfaces on some planes . The move to Level C may , in that case , not require any software changes at all . If you stop performing the full traceability , tests , and meeting objectives with independence at Level A , and only perform those necessary for Level C , then your release under this new system will necessarily only be certified under Level C . The software can no longer be used to control flight surfaces , but if a new plane comes out with electronically adjustable air nozzles in the passenger compartment , it may be eligible for inclusion there where failure would , at worst , cause passenger discomfort and increase crew workload managing complaints about air vents being misdirected or opened/closed when the opposite is desired . If your software is an autopilot , though , then it will never be used if it does n't meet Level A . In this case , there 's no way to change your software or process to a lower level and expect it to be used - the usage of the software defines the level to which it must comply . In most cases , the usage will drive which level the software must be certified to , and there 's no real way ( or reason ) for you to change your level . It would cease to be useful software at the wrong level .
I read the FARs for this one , and there is a rule : <URL> From what I gather , the rule is there to get liars in trouble . If you did n't lie , which you clearly have no reason to because your age does not disqualify you , I do n't think you have to worry about getting in trouble because it was the doctor 's mistake . However : ( <URL> ) ( c ) The following may serve as a basis for suspending or revoking a medical certificate ; withdrawing an Authorization or SODA ; or denying an application for a medical certificate or request for an authorization or SODA : ( 2 ) An incorrect entry , upon which the FAA relied , made in any logbook , record , or report that is kept , made , or used to show compliance with any requirement for a medical certificate or an Authorization or SODA . [ My emphasis ] Let 's pull out the important words and we get this : " An incorrect entry ... made in any ... record , or report that is kept ... or used to show compliance with any requirement for a medical certificate ... " A medical certificate is certainly kept or used to show compliance with a <URL> You have discovered an incorrect entry . Call the doctor that issued your medical as soon as you can in order to get it resolved , and do not accept a solo sign-off on this incorrectly filed document now that you have knowledge of the mistake . To give you a straight answer based on my interpretation of the law , yes ; this error would prohibit you from soloing until it can be corrected .
The direction of rotation of the propeller introduces an asymmetry which designers try to mitigate by adding more asymmetries . Specifically , a right-turning tractor propeller ( clockwise from the pilot 's viewpoint ) will swirl the propeller wake in the same direction which adds a negative sideslip angle on the vertical tail ( which sticks up into the upper half of the wake only ) . By pointing the axis of rotation of the propeller slightly to the right ( right sidethrust ) , this sideslip angle can be reduced . Other means of correction like an incidence on the vertical tail would not work equally well : Once the engine is throttled back , such an incidence would require to re-trim the aircraft . On multi-engined aircraft a sidethrust can help to reduce rudder input in engine-out cases . Here each wing engine points slightly away from the fuselage so its thrust will pull the aircraft into a helpful sideslip when the opposite engine has failed . The propeller axis can also point slightly down in order to move the thrust line closer to the center of gravity , reducing thrust-related trim changes , and to reduce the <URL> effect ( sideways <URL> ) at high angle of attack . This is called downthrust . One example would be the <URL> - engined version of the <URL> : When the new engine was installed , its lower thrust line required 2 ° more downthrust . This is one of the few topics where the English version of Wikipedia stays schtum ; only the German version has an article on it ( <URL> and <URL> ) .
<URL> , and I 'll add a few bits to that . Even after having gotten my license , I still use Flight Sims ( mainly Microsoft FSX and X-Plane 10 ) for some practice . Before flying into an unfamiliar airport , or over an unfamiliar area , I 'll often load it up in a simulator , and fly it . Especially when I was a student , I found this incredibly helpful for my long cross country flights . You can look at a map all you want , but its still not the same as sitting in the simulator , and looking around ( " I see the mountain on my left ... and the lake below me . I can follow this valley all the way to the aiport ... " etc ) . And I 've generally found the simulator , with good terrain and textures loaded , can be pretty close to reality . The night before I did a student flight from <URL> , I flew the entire thing in FSX . The next day , it really felt pretty much like making the same flight all over again . Based on the landmarks , timing , views , etc , I knew exactly where I was , and I was confident that everything was going right . That said , in my opinion there are some things simulators do very poorly . Some of these are : Take offsThe application of power and left-turning tendency on the ground just does n't feel realistic at all . The climb out does n't feel right . LandingsGround effect is difficult to observe in a simulator . The flare does n't feel like reality , and touching down ( or bouncing ) is not realistic at all . Cross Control , Slip , Spin &amp; Unusual AttitudesAnything beyond basic maneuvers up to 30 degrees bank or 20 degrees climb does n't match reality . Because of these limitations , I would NOT use a flight simulator to try to learn Take Offs , Landings , or certain maneuvers . ( You can learn the " procedure " in a simulator ... when to reduce power , when to add flaps . But the " feel " will be all wrong ) . If you 're going to try to incorporate Flight Sim into your training , there are some basic things you should do : Spend LOTS of time configuring itUnlike a video-game , this is not " plug-n-play " . Spend time learning all the controls . Turn on RealismWhen adjusting your controls , set all " null-zones " to zero , set " Sensitivity " to maximum , turn off helpers like " auto-mixture " and " auto-rudder " , etc. . ( However , I do keep " Gyro-Drift " turned off in my sim . Its annoying , and adds little practical value ) Turn on WeatherThe flight simulators typically come pre-setup with zero wind , good weather , standard temperature , etc. . Configure yours to pull from real-world weather sources , or add some clouds , a variety of winds , and do n't always fly at noon . Set the timing for early morning flights , twilight flights , night flights , etc. . Another " fun " area where Flight Simulators can be slightly helpful is in Emergency Procedures.Typically in real-world training , my instructor told me : " We 're going to practice engine-out emergencies " and my mind immediately starts preparing for that ... And naturally , we have to do them at a safe altitude in a safe area.In a flight simulator , you can set up the computer to give you a random emergency at a random time . You might get the problem on short-final , or over a metro-downtown area . Something that you just ca n't do in reality.I have n't had any real-life emergencies , so I do n't know how accurate flight simulator is . But I believe that some practice is better than no practice at all , and flight sim lets me fly into storms , icing , get lost in fog , fly approaches below minimums , have an engine seize up on me , etc , all without risking my butt or a $ 200,000 airframe . Since @Lnafziger suggested more specifically addressing flight training : I do believe that Flight Sim can help with certain aspects of training , but in other areas , it is no help at all , or actually harmful . Training Areas simulators can help with : ProceduresReviewing steps and procedures before going in the air . For example , for a student , steep turns or stall recovery can be a little nerve wracking at first . It may be much easier ( and cheaper ) to do it in a sim with an instructor , discussing all the steps and reasons for actions . Then when the student gets in the air , they wo n't have the " feel " for it , but at least the general process is already familiar . NavigationTuning and identifying VORs , and interpreting the needles can be done just as well be done on the ground as in the air . If the sim has good , realistic terrain ( I prefer <URL> ) , it can also be used for some visual reference lessons . Instrument interpretationScanning and cross-checking the 6-pack of instruments can be done in a simulator just fine , and a student can practice doing it for long periods of time for a fraction of the cost of flight-time . Training Areas simulators are very bad at : On the ground &amp; Outside the planeAnything on the ground , such as taxiing and parking , or anything outside the airplane , such as pre-flight inspection , or weather interpretation , just does n't work in a sim . RadiosI have n't seen any flight sims that really work for the
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
The NTSB actually <URL> the use of exterior cameras to the FAA in 2012 . It appears to be <URL> a <URL> , but it looks like you should contact your local FSDO for approval of an <URL> if you 're permanently fixing a camera to a plane . The grey area comes in that if the camera is temporarily attached , you should n't need special approval , but in practicality it could come loose and damage the plane . GoPro says this about affixing their cameras to planes : Industrial strength suction cup . Strong enough to pull dents out of a car door or stay attached to an airplane at 200mph + , proven though not endorsed by GoPro per FAA rules . There 's a <URL> where someone asked the FSDO to sign it off as a Minor Alteration , and it was determined that a short logbook entry would suffice : Temporarily installed a GoPro camera mounted to a standard inspection panel on ( Left/Right ) lower wing in place of the standard inspection panel . There are no electrical connections associated with this installation . This is a minor alteration as it has no appreciable effect on performance , flight characteristics , or other qualities affecting airworthiness ( refer to FAR 1.1 Major Alteration and FAR 21.93 ) . A net weight change of 9 oz is incurred with the temporary installation ; therefore , the weight and balance change is negligible ( refer to AC 43.13 1B , 10-2 ( c ) ) .
If : Your unmanned aircraft weighs between 250g and 25kg ( including fuel and cargo ) , You are not flying under the <URL> , also known as section 336 You intend to operate it outdoors , and You are operating it in the United States , you need to register your drone through <URL> . If your drone is heavier than 25kg , you need to go through the <URL> . If your drone is ligher than 250g , or you are only operating it indoors , you do not need to register it . Additionally , if you are operating the drone for commercial purposes , you must have a <URL> . ( Note : if you are younger than 13 years old , someone who is 13 or older needs to register your drone for you . )
A " circle-to-land " maneuver is basically a low-altitude traffic pattern - albeit one that you arrived at by being guided in on some instrument approach . The magic that makes this low ( and possibly abbreviated ) pattern possible is that the runway ends at airports with circling approaches have protected ( obstacle free ) airspace around them , which looks something like this : ( A more detailed explanation of the size of the circling approach area can be found <URL> . ) Since it 's basically a traffic pattern my understanding is you treat it as such , and that as long as you stay in visual contact with the airport and within the protected airspace ( by visually judging your distance from the field , and knowing your altitude ) you 're unlikely to hit anything , and you can do all your usual pattern maneuvering as long as you can *** visually * be sure you 're within the pretty blue part of the image above ( your GPS cant help you here ) . To see what this means for an example approach with some turns , consider my liberally-stolen and slightly-marked-up diagram below . If you lose contact with your intended runway end for a few seconds because of the turn/bank required at point " A " that 's OK : as long as you can still maintain visual contact with the airport/runway environment when you roll out ( say by looking out the back window ) , and as long as you can remain clear of clouds , and can maintain visual clearance from any potential obstacles you may continue the approach . If you 're flying out and on the leg from " A " to " B " and all of a sudden you look back out the window and the airport is gone in the haze and clouds , you need to go missed : You 've lost the airport/runway environment , and can no longer judge your distance to stay in the " safe " airspace . Similarly if you 're in a high-wing aircraft and your turns at " B " and " C " briefly obscure the airport while you 're turning you can still continue the approach - if you 've any doubt where the airport is just pick up the wing like you would in a VFR pattern ( and if the airport is n't there like it 's supposed to be go missed ! ) Regarding your bird scenario , that 's an interesting one that I do n't think is covered in any diagrams , but if a flock of birds causes you to maneuver in such a way that you lose contact with the airport ( and you ca n't just pick up a wing and have it be right where you expected it to be ) you 're obviously going to have to abandon the approach and go missed . It 's the equivalent of the airport disappearing in the haze on that A-to-B leg . Honestly though , if a flock of birds shows up and hangs out in a way that requires you to start maneuvering around them while you 're trying to shoot a circling approach in real IFR you may want to just go missed anyway ( given the odds this probably wo n't cost you too many approaches ) . In a real world situation with poor visibility , possibly precipitation , and likely a cloud ceiling really close to your altitude , do you really want to try to be maneuvering down low to avoid some stupid bird that could n't even be bothered to call the tower ? Would n't you feel much better pointing the aircraft in a generally " upward " direction and following the nice friendly needle again for a little while ? I 'm just starting my IFR training , but I think I 'd feel better with that option :-)
It is a joint decision of the entire flight crew ( flight crew consists of pilots and cabin crew ) . It is mostly a decision by the most senior flight attendant because it is mostly a cabin issue . The prerequisite is , obviously , the cabin has to be cleaned and prepared . There are " cabin checks " to be carried out when the plane is empty . Typically , each flight attendant will be assigned an area . When everyone reports they 're ready , then boarding can begin . But there are factors from the cockpit that can delay the boarding process too . For example , ATC informs them that takeoff will be delayed for 2 hours . Or a maintenance is being carried out . So , the pilots would always been informed before boarding begins , but in most cases there 'd be no objection .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
The 'N' numbers you 're referring to are <URL> . The FARs ( Federal Aviation Regulations ) specifically mention registration as not being required for military aircraft : <URL> ( b ) No person may operate an aircraft that is eligible for registration under 49 U.S.C. 44101-44104 , unless the aircraft -- ( 1 ) Has been registered by its owner ; ( 2 ) Is carrying aboard the temporary authorization required by § 47.31 ( c ) ; or ( 3 ) Is an aircraft of the Armed Forces The FAA issues these registrations in accordance with its responsibilities under the <URL> , which required ( in <URL> ) that : Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appropriate nationality and registration marks . As per the above-cited 14 CFR 47.3 , though , the U.S. specifically requires that all eligible aircraft have registrations unless it 's either a military aircraft or it has temporary authorization under 14 CFR 47.31 ( c ) .
What you need is enough lift to remain in the air . For that , the maximum lift of your hang glider needs to exceed the total weight . When you know the total weight of the glider ( you included ) , you can derive the theoretical minimum airspeed from the lift formula : $ $ L _ { max } = \ frac12 { \ rho } V ^ 2C _ { max } S$ $ $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2W } { { \ rho } C _ { max } S } } $ $ Where : $ L$ = lift $ \ rho $ = air density $ V$ = air speed $ C _ { max } $ = maximum lift coefficient $ S$ = wing surface $ W$ = weight Now you have to know your maximum lift coefficient . Suppose this is 1.2 , and for safety and initial manoeuvring , let 's add a margin of 40 % to the weight . Let 's say your mass is 85 kg , and the glider has a mass of 35 kg . The total weight would be 120 kg -- that is about 1,177 N weight , which for the sake of safety margin is increased to 1,650 N. I 'll estimate the surface of the wing to be $ 16m ^ 2 $ . Assume a normal day , the air density will be about $ 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 $ . Filling in the numbers is the formula : $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ times1650 } { 1.225 \ times1 .2 \ times16 } } \ approx 12 \ textrm { m/s } $ $ Any wind speed you get you can subtract from this figure : what is left you have to achieve by pushing , running or diving .
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
end question
start question
How are aeronautical procedures created in the US ?
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
Where can the requirements for US aircraft registration be found ? The registration procedure is outlined in <URL> . See also the <URL> . 3 . The owner of an aircraft must apply to the Aircraft Registration Branch , P.O. Box 25504 , Oklahoma City , Oklahoma 73125-0504 , to obtain a certificate of registration . The applicant must submit an Aircraft Registration Application , AC Form 8050-1 , accompanied by evidence of ownership and a $ 5 registration fee . Requirements for registration of aircraft are contained in the <URL> ( For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 . ) Basically , the registrant ( whether an individual or a corporation , trustee , etc. , all of which are defined in Part 47 ) must be able to prove legal ownership of the airplane . What is the penalty for flying an aircraft without a valid registration ? The violator would be subject to any of the <URL> : administrative action ( a " Warning Notice " or " Letter of Correction " which goes on your record ) , reexamination ( " 709 ride " ) , certification action ( suspension or revocation ) , or civil/criminal penalties . The exact penalty would likely depend on the circumstances : whether the violation was intentional and the degree of the pilot 's negligence under the FARs . What should someone do if they believe an aircraft to be operating without valid registration , and how could they determine this ? The <URL> reporting FAR violations by calling the FAA 's toll-free telephone number , 1-866-TELL-FAA .
No . It varies from state to state . <URL> , for example , requires tax payment but no aircraft or pilot registration . <URL> does n't require any registration and did n't mention any taxes . In <URL> , registration is required but taxes can be waived if you register your aircraft under your corporate , instead of your own name . <URL> requires registration and so does <URL> . I could not find a single resource which lists all states and their aircraft and pilot registration requirements . FAA does not have this information , probably because FAA does not care about state regulations . We can create a Wiki on this topic here .
Two words : chase planes . A few more words : The easiest way to film an airplane in flight is with another airplane in flight . <URL> , including images captured from both sides ; the chase plane ( a Learjet 25B ) getting the shots of the 787 Dreamliner , and crew aboard the Dreamliner getting a few snapshots of the chase plane . Early shots taken from chase planes often used simple handheld cameras ; a two-seater would normally be used with the pilot in front and the photographer in back . This is still a totally viable way to do it , but more modern professional shoots utilize aircraft specifically modified for the task by adding internal or external camera mounts , optical-quality viewports , etc. . Here 's a modified T-33 used by Boeing specifically for air-to-air photography , including some of the initial publicity shots of the 787 in flight ; notice the camera mount between the seats that can be used by the GIB ( he 's using a handheld in this photo : For lower-speed shots , you can also use a helicopter . Many of these such as news choppers have remote-control cameras on gyro-stabilized mounts , so the vibration of the airframe is minimized in the shot even at high zoom : These same camera systems can be used for air-to-air shots as well , however the maximum airspeed of the helicopter becomes a limiting factor . Still great for publicity shots of small prop planes , or takeoffs/landings .
For an application that were controlling a hobbyist UAV one could use something like the Google Maps API . It provides services and data that will scale as the user scrolls in and out and as the UAV transitions to different areas . It also has the advantage of having visual and road data as an option . The downside is that unless you download enough data ahead of time you must have some sort of data connection to the application . But , with the greater availability of the fast cell based data connections this is becoming less of an issue .
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
Well , pretty much anything can be given a US airworthiness certificate provided it 's not literally falling to pieces . You could certificate such an aircraft as a <URL> -- Specifically one of : Experimental -- Research and Development To conduct aircraft operations as a matter of research or to determine if an idea warrants further development . Typical uses for this certificate include new equipment installations , operating techniques , or new uses for aircraft . or Experimental -- Showing compliance with regulations To show compliance to the airworthiness regulations when an applicant has revised the type certificate design data or has applied for a supplemental type certificate or field approval . If your goal is to ultimately get this aircraft a <URL> you would probably want the latter , to allow you to conduct test/certification flights in the modified aircraft . To then get a standard airworthiness certificate things are a bit more murky . You could get a US STC based on the European STC &amp; using this aircraft as the example for conformity inspections and flight testing , but that would require going through <URL> . The other option would be the 337 process , in which case you are also going to need an A&amp;P mechanic ( preferably one with Inspection Authorization ) and the cooperation of your local FSDO to approve the modification as a " major alteration " ( <URL> - Instructions <URL> ) . As you alluded to in your question , something like installing a Rotax engine in a Cessna 150 is a " Major Modification " that has no " FAA Approved Data " ( STC procedure/drawings/etc . ) to include with the 337 , so you would need to submit " Acceptable Data " for your modification ( the European STC is a good starting point ) and work with the FAA to obtain approval for the modification . This is something you would want to talk to the FAA about before purchasing an aircraft with such a modification ( there 's a good chance they may not approve the modification , which would leave you with an unairworthy aircraft , or one restricted to the Experimental category ) .
Not just helicopters . It happens all the time in my neck of the woods ( Alaska ) in small planes with big bouncy tires . We probably have more " field landings " ( called bush landings , or " off airport operations " ) than landings at actual airports . OK , well maybe not quite that many - but enough that my local aviation college has an entire semester course dedicated to it for it 's professional piloting program . The first act is usually a low pass to inspect the conditions and determine the best landing direction ( if there is more than one option ) , assuming that the winds will allow it . If there are other aircraft in the area , which sometimes happens at popular hunting/fishing/floating drop-off locations or glacier tours , then self-announcing on frequency is done like at a non-towered airport . But , it 's usually remote enough that it 's not done . Quite frequently , it 's two planes for one party 's charter - one to carry the people , and one to carry their gear . In that case , they 're usually talking to each other the whole way , and know each other 's intentions anyway .
Most of the action for ETOPS flights takes place during planning and dispatch stages - the planning for alternate airports , gathering of weather reports for diversion cases etc. . Before ETOPS entry point , the weather reports are updated and checks are made ; after that there are no ' special ' procedures to be followed during a ( normal ETOPS ) flight . From <URL> : 3 - IN-FLIGHT ETOPS PROCEDURES b ) Weather update − after ETOPS Entry Point : The crew should continue to update the weather forecasts and reports for en-route alternates . As for a normal flight , the crew must make every effort to keep themselves informed on the weather at the destination and the destination alternate . c ) Fuel monitoring The procedures normally used as per airline policy is also applicable for ETOPS . This is true even for flights where ETOPS fuel planning is the limiting factor . In case of diversion ( say due to an engine failure ) , the PIC will take a decision like any other flight , though he/she can not fly beyond the nearest suitable airport . One way of looking at this is that the main purpose of ETOPS certification is to improve the robustness and reliability of the design and operator to a level that the ETOPS flight could be conducted like any other normal flight in the ETOPS segment .
Does the position of the controls for the second motor really influence the behaviour of the first one ? No , it influences the activation of various other systems like the autothrust , the airbrakes , as well as the thrust reversers . how it is more efficient ? Because in the new procedure the engine with non-functioning reverser starts to spool up before the system realizes the reverser did not deploy and cuts it again , so for a moment it produces forward thrust . The old procedure avoids this .
The definition of a " Flag Carrier " , although somewhat vague and frequently disputed , is generally accepted to mean : an air carrier that is owned by , or subsidized by , the government of the country of registration , especially for the purposes of flying international routes . <URL> : A flag carrier is a transportation company , such as an airline or shipping company , that , being locally registered in a given state , enjoys preferential rights or privileges accorded by the government for international operations . The term also refers to any carrier that is or was owned by a government , even long after their privatization when preferential rights or privileges continue . <URL> : Airline ... registered under the laws of a country whose government gives it partial or total monopoly over international routes . The US has no carriers in this category . All subsidizing of major domestic and international routes ended with the <URL> . ( Note : there are still some small airlines and routes that are subsidized to serve very small communities ... If you want to read more about this program , it 's called <URL> . )
No they are not , at least not fully . There have been instances of equipment failure caused by coffee spills , resulting in the need to abort the flight . <URL> shows a flight that needed to divert because a coffee spill disabled the communication equipment . <URL> <URL> had smoke in the cockpit because the previous flight crew spilled coffee and sugar over the avionics . <URL> suffered control problems ( resulting in Dutch roll ) after a coffee spill cause a short circuit in the yaw damper . Source : Transport Accident Investigation Commission of New Zealand
Seems you guessed right , actually . <URL> does indicate that you can get a letter of authorization in lieu of a type rating : B. Requirements for Aircraft Undergoing Certification . During the type certification process , it is sometimes necessary for industry pilots or FAA inspectors with airman certification responsibility to be qualified in a particular aircraft before a pilot certificate type rating designator is established for that aircraft . In these circumstances , and at the discretion of the manager of the aircraft evaluation group ( AEG ) , an LOA ( Figure 5-187 ) may be issued in lieu of a type rating . This LOA and Letter of Application ( Figure 5-188 ) must be in the pilot 's possession when exercising the authorized privileges . The LOA can eventually be surrendered to a district office in exchange for a temporary airman certificate bearing the category , class , and type ratings .
The probability of two jets surviving such a close encounter are extremely remote . Setting aside the fact that it is difficult to imagine two aircraft flying in the same altitude in opposite directions ( commercial aircraft are separated by 3 miles laterally and 1000 ft. vertically ) , if the scenario unfolds as in the movie and the horizontal separation between the aircraft on approach is as shown , the pilots would not have time to react and take the necessary evasive actions . Assuming that the jets are cruising towards each other at 900 kmph , the combined speed is around 1800 kmph , or half a kilometer per second . If the TCAS is not working and the aircraft come within five km ( the distance in the video is considerably lower , less than a km ) of each other , the pilots have less than 10 seconds to get out of each other 's way . The civil aircrafts are not designed for such rapid roll rates . The inertia of the aircraft ( especially the 747 ) will limit it . Another thing to note is that the modern flight control systems will not allow airline pilots to carry the maneuvers shown in the flight . The pilot can override the Flight control Computer.However , in this case , they would not have time to react . If by some miracle the aircrafts cross each other , they will fly right into the other aircraft 's wake turbulence , which will have disastrous consequences , especially for the smaller aircraft . <URL> Sources : airpower.maxwell.af In case of small aircraft flying behind a heavy jet , FAA regulations require a minimum separation of 5 miles , lesser than which the effect of the wake turbulence ( wingtip vortices ) can have serious consequences . <URL> Source : Aeronautical Information Manual FAA conducted <URL> on the effects of wake turbulence by flying a 737 behind a 727 , which shows the loss of control associated with flying in the wake of another aircraft . Once ( if ) the aircraft pass each other , they should be brought to level flight as quickly as possible ( whether it is possible or not is another question ) to prevent stall . In this critical juncture , if the aircraft wings encounter wake turbulence , the control of the aircraft will be loss , resulting in stall . Finally , in case two aircraft do approach each other in the same altitude in opposite directions , there are laid down procedures to follow . None of them involve the stunt shown in the movie . When two aircraft are flying head on , each must move to their right . <URL> Source : planefinder.net If two aircraft are at the same height and on converging courses , the aircraft with the other on its starboard side has to give way . <URL> Source : planefinder.net
No . The transition attitude in a defined area is fixed . For example , in the USA it is 18.000 ft and in many European countries it is 5.000 ft. It 's impossible to have different transition altitudes at one airport , because that would make it impossible to use vertical separation between aircraft close to the transition layer .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
It is still possible ( and in my experience not that difficult ) to get FAA tower tours ( and sometimes even TRACON or Center tours ) , though you should be reasonable in your expectations here -- You are probably NOT going to get a tour of the tower at JFK or LAX . The FAA used to actively encourage pilots with an instrument rating ( or pursuing instrument training ) to sign up for ATC facility tours under a program called <URL> -- This program is still running , though it 's been substantially scaled back ( Poke around on the FAA Safety Team 's <URL> , or sign up for notices in your area and keep a sharp eye out . <URL> ) . ( As an example of how quickly the slots fill up , when N90 ( New York TRACON ) last had a Raincheck event it was full within a few hours of being announced . No , I did n't get a slot . ) At towered GA airports - particularly ones with a lot of flight training - you can also contact the tower directly . <URL> but that 's a little out of date . You can also get the phone number from Flight Service , the local FSDO , or ask the tower/ground controller for the number if they 're not too busy . When you call the facility explain that you 're a pilot/student pilot and would like to arrange to tour the facility ( and if possible shadow a controller ) . They will usually ask for your name , address , airman certificate number , and a few other things to run a check and get approval to let you in to the facility . You will also be expected to have government issued photo ID with you when you show up . My experience arranging a tour of our local tower was extremely pleasant - they are happy to do the tours and let you shadow a controller , and I even got to pick their brains about some peculiarities in local procedures . It 's a great educational experience , and I would recommend it for any pilot/student pilot .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
The 747-200 derivatives used for transporting the President of the United States are VC-25 's operated and maintained by the United States Air Force . The US Air Force tends to keep planes for a long time , as they still operate 707 and B-52 aircraft twice as old as these 747 's . The <URL> , also based on the 747-200 , have been in service for 40 years . The reasons for keeping the VC-25 aircraft flying are similar to these other examples . A lot of work went into the VC-25 aircraft . They have been modified to add aerial refueling capability , defensive mechanisms , and include extensive additional electronic equipment for communications . Installing the special interiors was also a major task . As with a bomber or AWACS , there is a large initial investment in development to design the systems and build the aircraft . Upgrading components and providing proper maintenance allows these aircraft to perform their missions long after their entry into service . Another difference is the engines . The 747-200B model has GE CF6-50E2 engines producing 52,500 lbf thrust each . The VC-25 aircraft have newer CF6-80C2B1 engines producing 56,700 lbf thrust each , which is the same engine as the 747-300 . Newer engines go a long way towards improved performance . As DeltaLima notes , these aircraft do not spend nearly as much time in the air as commercial aircraft . Yet there are many commercial aircraft in service with similar or greater age , including some 747-200 aircraft .
end question
start question
Why are there two IRS switches on the 737NG ?
Inertial Reference System is a solid state set of <URL> which navigate using <URL> . The system measures accelerations in and rotation around each of the 3 axis so can calculate where it is by adding how much it has moved to the initial position . A simple example : The aircraft is stationary pointing North . Over a 10 minute period , it measures the accelerations in the X and Y axis and calculates that is has moved +100 kms in the X axis ( i.e. North ) and +100 kms in the Y axis ( i.e. West ) . By simple trigonometry , we can calculate that the aircraft is approximately 141.4 kms on a bearing of 45 degrees from it 's initial position . The gyros must be aligned with the aircraft frame of reference when it is stationary . This is the " alignment " process and generally must be completed before the aircraft moves . It may also take inputs of the current position from a manual keyboard or from some other system , e.g. GPS . More modern IRS fits can align when the aircraft is moving , taking an updated position from GPS . There are 2 systems on the 737 , simply for redundancy . <URL>
I can give you lots of reasons , but as with most things they all really boil down to one : MONEY . Perhaps the first challenge with preserving any classic warbirds in airworthy " flying exhibit " condition is finding one , but let 's assume you can locate a mostly-intact Avro Lancaster ( in a field somewhere , or as a static display at a museum that has n't done anything to it that would render it unflyable ) . The next major hurdle is restoring it to airworthy condition economically : A side effect of their role in the military is that these aircraft are flown hard ( they have to accomplish their mission and a little airframe stress or engine damage in the process is OK as long as you still get it back home in mostly-serviceable condition for repair ) , and of course they do tend to get shot at ( 9 out of 10 structural engineers surveyed agreed that bullet holes are a Bad Thing for airworthiness ; The 10th wet himself and ran out screaming ) . They 've also been sitting around for decades suffering the effects of time ( corrosion ) . Once you find the aircraft you have to determine what repairs it will require to render the airframe airworthy . You will probably be replacing skin panels , control cables , hydraulic and pneumatic lines , etc. at the very least . The longer it 's sat , and the worse the environment , the higher the chance of more major repairs ( structural corrosion requiring ribs or spars to be replaced/spliced ) , and as these aircraft are out of production there are some parts you ca n't just get off the shelf : Custom fabrication for skins , control surfaces , ribs , etc. adds to the price tag . Once the airframe is addressed you can look to the engines , since an aircraft without a powerplant is still just a static display . Much like with the airframe you may find engine parts are hard to come by ( the two airworthy B-29s , <URL> and <URL> , both required a lot of effort to get working engines ) . Now that you have a working engine you need to outfit the cockpit -- Many of the instruments the aircraft originally shipped with were likely pulled by the military or intervening owners as service spares for other flying aircraft , so what 's left in the cockpit may be non-functional or so obsolete as to be useless . If you want an aircraft you can safely/legally fly to shows you 'll probably need to invest tens-of-thousands of dollars in outfitting it with instruments and radios that are some functional combination of " authentic " and " modern " . Finally once it 's all assembled , airworthy , and navigable you still have to pay to operate and maintain it like any other aircraft . When you 're talking about a Lancaster with 4 fat engines on it you 're racking up quite a fuel bill ( and burning a good amount of oil with it ) . The engines will of course need routine maintenance ( oil changes , etc. ) and eventually things will wear out or break , requiring repairs and leaving you with the " out-of-production parts " issues again . Most of the " big " flying warbirds like the two airworthy B-29s and the two airworthy Lancasters are maintained by organizations that do it as a labor of love &amp; out of respect for the history of these aircraft , but they do not have unlimited funding and there are n't a large number of near-airworthy airframes to choose from for these projects ( with the pool of available hulks ever-dwindling ) , so in that respect there 's certainly a financial factor as to why there are n't more of these flying . Psychologically there 's also probably something about having " at least two " airworthy examples flying that may make folks look at restoring a different type as well : Having two flying examples of aircraft from this period provides a decent level of insurance in so much as if one is lost in an accident or develops a problem that ca n't be fixed at least there 's still the other one flying . ( When FiFi was the only flying B-29 there were some folks who felt it should n't be flown , as an accident would cost the only airworthy example . Doc joining the flight line has muted some of those objections . )
As <URL> you do n't necessarily pull a flap on airplane seatbelts -- Sometimes ( particularly in newer light GA planes from the 1990s and on ) you push a button just like you do in a car , other times it 's the " utility buckle " ( flap buckle ) - sometimes with a shoulder harness attach peg or other attach mechanism , and sometimes you 'll find rotary buckles , where you turn a knob to release the belt ( particularly common in aerobatic aircraft , with 4-point or 5-point restraints ) . I 've attached a little gallery of belt types below ( and this is n't even complete - military aircraft hafe some downright funky buckles ! ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> This variety is why the FAA requires flight crew to instruct passengers in the operation of the seat belts . So , why are the belts in airplanes different ? And why are there so many types ? Each belt is good at something different , and each belt has its own set of drawbacks . The automotive style push-button belt is very familiar to infrequent flyers . Most people who are going to get on a plane have been in a car ( they probably rode in one to the airport ) , so familiarity with automotive-style seatbelts can generally be assumed . This is great when you take someone for a flight who is n't a frequent airline passenger . The drawback to the automotive belt is it 's not as easy for rescuers to operate , and the push-button mechanism can jam - particularly in fires where the plastic shell can melt/fuse ( in cars the belts are often cut by rescuers because it 's easier/faster than dealing with the button ) . If your passengers are injured in an emergency and ca n't operate the belt it may be difficult for you to locate and press the button to assist in evacuation . The " utility buckle " flap belt is easy for rescuers &amp; cabin crew to operate . The exact opposite of the push-button belt 's chief drawback : It 's really easy for cabin crew or rescurers to find a utility buckle on a belt by feel and yank the flap to release it ( try it some time : Buckle someone into an airplane seat , close your eyes , and find/release the buckle . The hardest part is finding the belt if they 're wearing bulky clothes ) . It 's also relatively hard to jam a utility buckle , and relatively easy to inspect them to determine if they 're damaged . The drawback to the utility buckle is that not everyone has been on an airplane ( or in a really old car that uses them ) , so they might not be familiar with " Lift the flap to release the belt " , and in a panic situation it may take them a few seconds to remember what to do . The rotary buckle is unique and kind of awesome for what it 's built for . Rotary buckles make it easy to attach 4 or 5 point restraints , and to release all or part of them quickly . ( The buckle shown in the photos is single-function - turn to release - but dual-function buckles exist where you can press the button in the center of the buckle to release the shoulder straps , or turn the knob to release everything . ) The big drawbacks to rotary buckles are their novelty : On the ground you usually only find them on 5-point racing harnesses , and in the air they 're pretty uncommon too ( mainly aerobatic aircraft as I mentioned earlier ) . They 're probably the last type of buckle a passenger or rescuer would expect to have to deal with , and particularly with the dual-action buttons they can present a challenge in a panic egress ( passengers will hit the button and release the shoulder harnesses , but they 're still restrained by the lower portion of the belt - this can cost precious time for them to realize they have to turn the knob ) .
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
In normal operations there are regulations against this sort of thing ( as Dave has said ) . But there have been a few emergencies where the First Office or the Captain have become incapacitated ( due to medical emergencies ) , and the remaining pilot has declined to ask if there is another pilot on board to help fly the plane . Here is an example from 2011 of a <URL> ** , I have heard of others but ca n't find references . So , admittedly , that may be the only actual occurrence . So , to finally answer your questions : Very rarely , in an emergency situation , there can be a single pilot on a commercial airliner . Granted , there were passengers on board , so I 'm not sure it fits your narrow definition of " solo " , but it 's about as close as it 's going to get . For completeness ( though I do n't think it counts ) , there have been a few instances of a single pilot stealing a commercial jetliner . For example <URL> . There were actually two people involved , one was a mechanic , the other had a private pilots license ( hence the pilot was " soloing " ) . The aircraft has not been seen since ... so it 's assumed it ended badly , and , for the record , it 's also assumed the pilot was coerced ( if indeed he was even flying the plane ) . There are a couple more incidents , namely this <URL> , which was stolen by a mechanic , circled for an hour , then crashed . And also this <URL> , which was actually stolen by a Captain form Air Botswana . He circled the airport for a couple of hours demanding to speak to everyone from his girlfriend , to his boss to the President of Botswana . They were actually arranging to have him speak with the president when he crashed his plane into two other Air Botswana ATR-42-320s that were parked on the ground . He was the only one killed . Again , though , I 'm not sure if these fit the criteria you are looking for . But in that last one , at very least , he was the only person on board the aircraft , it was a commercial aircraft and he was in fact a Captain . But to say all this an irregularity would be an extreme understatement ... ** For clarification : The reason I state this is the only example I could find is because it 's the only one where I could find a report where it was specifically stated the remaining pilot had no help . To quote from the report : Once the initial Cabin Crew assistance was complete , the Captain indicated that he did not need assistance in operating the aircraft , although this was suggested in the operator 's procedures for pilot incapacitation . The First Officer took no further part in the operation of the aircraft . No inquiries as to the possible presence on board the aircraft of either medically trained personnel or qualified pilots were made . All other examples I saw either specifically stated that a new co-pilot was found , or they skipped that detail entirely . All of that being said , I somehow doubt this is the only case , it 's just the only one I could explicitly verify .
Depending on certain factors , you can accept a SID clearance knowing that you can not make the required climb gradient with one engine inoperative ( OEI ) . The FAA <URL> 5-2-8 ODP and SIDs states this : ODPs and SIDs assume normal aircraft performance , and that all engines are operating ( AEO ) . Development of contingency procedures , required to cover the case of an engine failure or other emergency in flight that may occur after liftoff , is the responsibility of the operator . This answer begs another question and what are some contingency procedures you can consider when accepting a SID when the required climb gradient is not possible with OEI procedures ? The FAA lists two possible places for this information : <URL> <URL> Chapter 1 . AC 120-91 talks about how runway analysis is used to comply with Part 121 / 135 obstacle climb requirement . Instrument Procedures Handbook provides additional information on how OEI takeoff obstacle clearance requirements are different than TERPS requirements . Besides using runway analysis , there is n't a lot of additional information on contingency procedures . Here are my contingency procedures in the preferred order Runway Analysis - Let an engineer figure out the maximum weight to takeoff and be able to climb above the obstacles Radar vectors - Once ATC issues the words " Turn left / right heading xxx ° " they are equally responsible for terrain clearance See and avoid the terrain ( VMC only ) - If we can see the obstacles ... hopefully we can miss them . Of course , mountains do n't care if you can see them or not . They do n't move . Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODP ) using OEI calculations . SID using OEI calculations . It would be great if others come up with a different set . I would love to see them . I will typically work through this listing and if I am taking off from an airport without radar services in IMC where I do not have runway analysis , I need to be able to make the ODP or the SID on OEI performance .
Could somebody explain a little bit why they need 2 separate GPS and 2 separate IRS ? So that if one fails , the other can still be used to complete the flight . Airbus even have 3 . What is meant by " alignment " ? Initialization of the system and solving the " heading problem " through a magnetometer . But this is a different question .
The signs on top of the jet bridges are useful in identifying your assigned gate . Without these signs it would be easy to misidentify a neighboring gate if it also had a ground crew ready to accept an airplane . They are also useful for keeping an eye on an occupied gate from a distance while you wait for an aircraft to leave . They are also illuminated which helps locating the right gate at night or in low light . The electronic signs high on the terminal building are helpful to aircrew and ground crews . They often list aircraft info , departure/arrival airports and time to scheduled pushback . The on ground painted lines are useful for initially lining up for a gate and in making the elaborate maneuvers required getting into certain tightly spaced gates . Once you get this close you are being guided by ground crew and have wing walkers watching your clearances . The final painted ground positions for nosewheel position ( by aircraft type ) are only useful to the ground staff guy with the wands -- you ca n't see them yourself when needed .
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
It says it <URL> : 1-1-8 . Navigational Aid ( NAVAID ) Service Volumes c. Standard Service Volume limitations do not apply to published IFR routes or procedures . So V267 has been flown at the MEA by an FAA plane , and it obviously met the signal accuracy requirements to be usable at the distances charted .
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
The robot , or better the software analyzing the sensor output , needs to be programmed for every eventuality . After all , wear and tear does not leave standard traces , and a human is still better in spotting when something does not look quite right . This does not concern the obvious cases , but those where experience and intuition make the difference . Next , aircraft structures are made with human inspectors in mind . A robotic system would need to be able to access all points at least as well as a human can . This puts some heavy restrictions on the robot 's physique . Eventually , a robotic system will surpass most humans , but only after thousands of man-hours of training . Maybe someone is developing just such a system right now , but I am unaware of this . One point remains , however : Who will be liable if the robotic system makes a mistake ? The manufacturer will need to buy insurance to cover those corner cases where the robot fails , and this will come on top of the hefty expense for developing and training such a system . I expect that the military ( e.g. <URL> ) will be the first to make the plunge , and only when the robot has a positive track record will civilian operators start to consider using it . The EasyJet drones are just helping to get a camera on top of the aircraft ; the eventual monitoring of the feed will still be performed by humans . They are a high-tech version of a periscope , if you want .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
The three main reasons are : Prevent theft of headphones due to incompatibility with home systems Redundancy , if one connector breaks , the other will still provide audio Before the 3.5 mm jack was used , a pneumatic system was in use , which required two connectors . This question has been asked on different websites already , but here is a detailed explanation that sums it up nicely : There are a couple main reasons : First , the airlines were trying to prevent theft of headphones . The two-pronged plugs have been around on airplanes since way before the airlines started charging for headsets . Back then , headphones were not usually easily carried around as the portable earbud style had not become popular yet . By using a two-pronged setup that is not used in most other audio systems , the motivation for passengers to steal the headsets went down immensely . The second reason is redundancy . When a standard stereo headphone jack with three internal connections ( right , left , and ground ) breaks , you will often lose audio in both the left and right channels . However , with the two-pronged design , if one of the jacks breaks then there will still be audio going through the other channel . While this is annoying for the user , it is an easy way for the airline to defer maintenance on that individual seat 's audio system until both the left and right channel are non-functional . The two-prong design is a relic of the past , before headphones were bundled with so many of the mobile devices we now buy . Planes with updated inflight entertainment ( IFE ) systems usually have the standard stereo jack as most passengers prefer using their own headsets now . Slowly these old connectors will be completely phased out . Another less obvious ( and probably less likely , but interesting nonetheless ) reason , though , is based on airline complacency . Airlines , especially US based airlines , are notoriously slow in changing their tactics . Back before the 3.5 mm jack became the standard for headphone audio connections for IFEs , airplanes used a pneumatic headphone design . These headphones were similar to stethoscopes where hollow tubes would be plugged into the armrest which had actual soundwaves coming out ( instead of analog electrical signals ) . These systems were much more reliable than the standard electrical system and the headsets themselves were very cheap to replace . Since the pneumatic system required two separate plugs for the left and right channel ( since you can not mix physical sound waves into a single hole ) , all armrests were designed with two holes for audio . Airlines were likely so used to having two jacks for audio that they continued with the same design when they switched to electrical audio signals . ( Source : <URL> - Author : Raj Misra )
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
In the United States , the FAA has published <URL> , which includes recommendations for parallel runway separation . In summary , " For simultaneous landings and takeoffs using VFR , the minimum separation between centerlines of parallel runways is 700 feet ( 213 m ) . " For simultaneous IFR operations , " Dual simultaneous precision instrument approaches are normally approved on parallel runway centerline separation of 4,300 feet ( 1311 m ) . On a case-by-case basis , the FAA will consider proposals utilizing separations down to a minimum of 3,000 feet ( 914 m ) where a 4,300 foot ( 1311 m ) separation is impractical . This reduction of separation requires special high update radar , monitoring equipment , etc. " Note : Simultaneous Offset Instrument Approaches allow as little as 750 ft between runway centerlines . International regulations do differ . ICAO have their own standards . <URL> of a document which prescribes airport standards compliant to ICAO Annex 14 .
There is nothing I can find in the FARs requiring that a pilot keep their hands and feet on the controls at all times . Such a requirement would be impractical and dangerous in many situations ( such as when writing down a clearance in the air : For most people if you keep your hands on the controls while writing you will have a tendency to push , pull , or twist them , resulting in unintended attitude changes ) . The most relevant sections of <URL> would be 91.3 and 91.13 : 14 CFR 91.3 ( FAR 91.3 ) says : § 91.3 Responsibility and authority of the pilot in command . ( a ) The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for , and is the final authority as to , the operation of that aircraft . ... and 14 CFR 91.13 ( FAR 91.13 ) says : § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . ( b ) Aircraft operations other than for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft , other than for the purpose of air navigation , on any part of the surface of an airport used by aircraft for air commerce ( including areas used by those aircraft for receiving or discharging persons or cargo ) , in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . So basically it 's perfectly legal for a pilot to fly with their arms crossed and their feet flat on the floor , even without an autopilot , as long as the pilot in command remains able to exercise operational control of the aircraft as required to ensure the flight remains safe and legal , and as long as they are not acting in a " careless or reckless manner " ( like letting their altitude wander all over the place while sitting with their arms crossed ) .
<URL> In short The longer time required to align an inertial unit is the price to pay for its independency on any external equipment or signal , but Earth itself . A GPS receiver is faster , but is only one small piece in a huge system . The GPS ground segment ( control and monitoring stations ) and space segment ( satellites ) are necessary for the GPS receivers ( user segment in the jargon ) to work . They have multiple possibilities to fail , this critical dependency can not be afforded by an aviation navigation system , GPS must be backed up , and this is done using inertial ( can be INS , IRS , IMU or combined with air data units like ADIRU ) . During inertial alignment the unit accurately senses local vertical and true north ( actually Earth polar axis ) . The problem is that sensing true north requires knowing latitude , and determining latitude requires knowing true north . This is solved using successive approximations of both data -- fortunately this iteration is convergent -- until the desired precision has been achieved . It 's slow because Earth rotation produces tiny effects at small time scale , and we have n't found more practical sensors yet . The effects depends on the distance from the rotation axis , larger at the equator than at the poles . While GPS relies also on very <URL> , they can be easily retrieved by digital signal processing as soon as the random generator algorithm and seed are known . An IRS provides the position like a GPS receiver . IRS also provides the horizontal plane ( attitude reference ) and the north direction which are inaccessible to the GPS alone . This is another reason inertial systems are still used . <URL> Details Gimballed vs strapdown Gimballed inertial systems principle is simple : Accelerometers are maintained oriented with Earth using a gimballed platform , and all measurements are done in the Earth reference system . In strapdown inertial systems , accelerometers and ( laser/optical ) rate gyros are aligned in the aircraft reference system , and measurements are done related to this system . Except this difference , the principles for alignment are quite the same . <URL> Overall principle of a strapdown inertial system , <URL> Old gimballed inertial are longer to align because gimballed gyroscopes are less precise than fixed laser gyros . For the explanations , let 's assume a gimballed stable platform . The alignment consists of getting the Earth orientation and speed , and inertial unit initial position . After alignment , current speed , attitude and heading will be determined by integrating accelerations and rotation rates and adding the result to the initial values . Alignment time vs accuracy obtained Alignment aims to determine two axis : Vertical of the location ( direction of gravity ) and true north azimuth ( parallel to Earth rotation axis ) . For this phase , both accelerometers and gyroscopes are used . While vertical is relatively easy to determine with accelerometers , true north direction direct determination is not possible : True north direction can not be sensed without knowing local latitude , and latitude can not be determined without knowing the direction of true north . The practical way to proceed is : Set an initial value for latitude ( it can be assumed ) , determine approximate north direction . Knowing approximate north , determine approximate latitude . From approximate latitude , refine north direction , etc. . See detailed inertial principle and alignment process in : <URL> . Accuracy of true north bearing increases with alignment time : <URL> Source : <URL> Alignment requires the unit to be motionless , hence any erratic motion decreases inertial signal/noise ratio which slows this process ( passengers boarding , wind acting on the tail surfaces , etc ) . Inertial does n't need external equipment or signal Inertial is a stand alone device , completely independent of any external equipment or man-made signal . It relies only on Earth rotation speed and gravity . That 's why it 's still used for navigation in spite of existing radio aids and GPS ( GPS is actually another radio aid ) . <URL> Today , inertial is mostly used to backup GNSS One may wonder why inertial systems are still used at the GPS era , in spite of their limited accuracy and long alignment procedure . The main reason is that you can not blindly rely on GPS constellation availability . Let 's list some of the possible failures . GPS is the US solution for satellite positioning or <URL> . While defense organizations can obtain credits for different reasons , the difficulty to set up a civilian GNSS has been striking with the numerous delays encountered building <URL> , the European GNSS . It needs to design , launch and maintain the satellite constellation ( more than 20 satellites are required for accuracy and availability ) . The constellation must be permanently monitored and controlled from ground stations all over the World . GNSS signal can be perturbed by natural phenomena : <URL> , weather and volcanic ashes may partially or totally
end question
start question
What are the different wing planforms ? What are each 's advantages ? Where are they commonly used ?
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
Have you ever heard of <URL> ? This was the preferred material before synthetic materials became available . What is it ? Wikipedia says : Goldbeater 's skin -- the outer membrane of a calf 's intestine -- is a parchment traditionally used in the process of making gold leaf by beating , reducing gold into mere 1 μm-thick leaves . [ ... ] To manufacture goldbeater 's skin , the gut of oxen ( or other cattle ) is soaked in a dilute solution of potassium hydroxide , washed , stretched , beaten flat and thin , and treated chemically to prevent putrefaction . From the 1880 's on it became the preferred material for gas bags , displacing rubberized cloth or silk which would become brittle quickly . The <URL> used already silk which had been rubberized by varnishing it with rubber that had been dissolved in turpentine . Again Wikipedia : Large quantities of goldbeater 's skin were used to make the gas bags of early balloons created by the Royal Engineers at Chatham , Kent starting in 1881 -- 82 culminating in 1883 with " The Heron " , of 10,000 cu ft capacity . The method of preparing and making gas-tight joins in the skins was known only to a family from Alsatia called Weinling who were employed by the RE for many years . The British had a monopoly on the technique until around 1912 when the Germans adopted the material for the internal gas bags of the " Zeppelin " rigid airships , exhausting the available supply : about 200,000 sheets were used for a typical World War I Zeppelin , while the USS Shenandoah needed 750,000 sheets . The sheets were joined together and folded into impermeable layers . There is a more detailed description in the <URL> which reveals that the goldbeater 's skin was reinforced with cotton cloth : The gas cells were made of goldbeater 's skins , one of the most gas-impervious materials known at the time . Named for their use in beating and separating gold leaf , goldbeater 's skins were made from the outer membrane of the large intestines of cattle . The membranes were washed and scraped to remove fat and dirt , and then placed in a solution of water and glycerine in preparation for application to the rubberized cotton fabric providing the strength of the gas cells . The membranes were wrung out by hand to remove the water-glycerine storage solution and then rubber-cemented to the cotton fabric and finally given a light coat of varnish . Today the preferred material is <URL> , a polyester , which is also used for blister packages or soda bottles . By itself , it would have far too high a rate of <URL> , therefore it is sealed with a metallic layer of a thickness of only a few atoms . Such <URL> are also used for thermal blankets , in spacesuits , on satellites and for toy helium balloons . To increase its tensile strength , the film is stretched in two perpendicular directions such that the molecule chains become elongated and the film becomes thinner . The result is called biaxially oriented PET ( <URL> ) and metallized by <URL> of a thin layer of aluminium .
They are flaps or doors on the engine cowling that open up in order to provide increased cooling airflow for the engine . <URL> when open . They are generally controlled by a handle in the cockpit ( some aircraft have electric cowl flaps with an open/close switch ) . <URL> The disadvantage is that the open flaps also increase drag . So on airplanes equipped with cowl flaps , they are generally opened for low-speed , high-power situations such as takeoff . This is the harshest operational regime for the engine since it is at its highest power and relatively low cooling airflow due to low airspeed . They are then closed either reaching cruise or reaching a point where the airplane can transition to a lower-power , higher-speed climb profile . They 're not specific to radial engines , but do tend to be more common in older aircraft ( there are exceptions though ) . Newer airplane and engine designs are more likely to have sufficient inherent cooling airflow to not require cowl flaps . The photo above comes from AVweb , which also has a <URL> .
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
All-moving control surfaces are like regular surfaces , only that the moveable part extends over 100 % of the chord . Since the effectivity of a control surface grows with the square root of the chord fraction $ \ lambda $ of its moveable part , an all-moving ( also called full-flying ) control surface has twice the effectivity ( defined as normal force change per degree of movement ) of one with a 25 % chord length of its moveable part . <URL> Effectivity of a control surface over chord fraction $ \ lambda $ <URL> was the first to calculate the inviscid lift due to control deflection , and the result of his work is shown above . The truth ( as defined by wind tunnel results ) is somewhere between his curve and that of my simple approximation . Control surface in subsonic flow Deflecting a flap causes the camber of the control surface to change . This is a positive effect in subsonic flow and allows the resulting airfoil to create more lift in the desired direction . Also , the orientation of the leading edge is maintained , causing much smaller suction peaks there than when the full surface is deflected . Suction peaks require a long pressure rise , which promotes <URL> when its gradient is too steep . Control surface in supersonic flow In supersonic flow , camber increases wave drag , so the full-flying control surface is more effective . Pure supersonic flow has no suction peaks , and flow separation is less of a concern . Therefore , full-flying surfaces are better for supersonic flight , while hinged surfaces are the better choice in subsonic flow . Especially in transsonic flow , at least a moveable stabilizer is necessary to <URL> due to the contour break of a hinged control surface . Stealth aircraft Stealth aircraft benefit from large , coherent surfaces , and the gap of a control hinge will increase their <URL> . Even subsonic stealth aircraft like the <URL> and the <URL> use full-flying control surfaces for their <URL> , as does the supersonic <URL> . Why the SR-71 rudders are special An <URL> at Mach 3.2 is a violent event , and the SR-71 needed all the yaw control authority available to compensate for the sudden asymmetric loss of thrust . Its rudders were optimized for supersonic use , and the actuator could be driven to its extreme position by an explosive charge which was fired automatically when an intake unstart was detected . To ensure optimum intake operation , the engines were positioned at mid-span , and the yawing moment of thrust changes was much higher than that of conventional fighter aircraft which have their engines close to the centerline for better roll agility . In addition , they use their rudders mostly in subsonic flight ; only the size of the vertical tail is determined by yaw stability at top speed .
There is a description of this route page <URL> . <URL> The scan is not good , you may get the textual content <URL> . It says terrain following activities may take place , as well as visual contours ( which I assume to be navigating without radar , looking at the outdoor and searching in a catalog the same relief contour to know where you are ) . As you commented , taking into account the local relief : For terrain following should be for newbies . For visual contours navigation should be for top-guns only . There are different routes like this , starting from nowhere and ending in the Smoky MOA . They seem to be routes avoiding nearby airfields . On the image below , I 've emphasized the area without airfields , including MOAs . It looks like IR-504 is drawn along the centerline . <URL> Based on <URL> Other possible selection criteria : Unpopulated areas ( noise from low flying jets ) Low radio noise areas . Flat terrain for UAV training .
Accelerometers are used , however for lower latency and higher definition , tracking infrared emitters is the better choice1 . The A-10 as you wrote uses inertial or magnetic trackers . The Eurofighter helmet uses infrared tracking . <URL> ... the Typhoon 's HMSS features lower latency , higher definition , improved symbology and night vision . It 's the one on the left ( <URL> ) . You can already see it has an organic brain of its own ; those bumps are the IR LEDs <URL> .
VERICOR POWER SYSTEMS has a patent for these valves , number and title The patent includes the following image : SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide for a control and method for arresting flashback in a gas turbine engine combustion system having a venturi for delivering a mixture of air and fuel to a combustion chamber and a valve for controlling the amount of air flowing to the venturi . The present invention achieves this object by providing a flashback control system and method having a flashback detection routine , a valve position trim routine , and a reference flame temperature adjustment routine . The flashback detection routine detects a flashback in the venturi by comparing the temperature at the venturi to the temperature of the air entering the valve . The valve position trim routine receives this flashback signal and in response causes the valve to open until the flashback is arrested . Finally , to prevent the flashback from recurring , the reference flame temperature adjustment routine adjusts a reference flame temperature in the control system so as to prevent the valve from returning to the position at which the flashback occurred . These and other objects , features and advantages of the present invention , are specifically set forth in , or will become apparent from , the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings . The patent can be <URL> , however , it has expired .
What a fix is has been answered <URL> but for now let 's just say it 's a known location that a pilot can navigate to if he has the right equipment . Fixes are shown on various charts and approach plates . As for using those fixes on an instrument approach , there are lots of variations and details but again , let 's ignore most of that for now . The basic concept is very simple : Fly to an Initial Approach Fix ( IAF ) Fly to other fixes as needed to execute the approach Land ( or go missed ) For example , here 's the RNAV ( GPS ) 36R approach at <URL> : <URL> You can see at the bottom of the map portion of the plate that both MASHA and FEWER are IAFs , so that 's where the approach starts . Let 's say you 're approaching from the south-west and you 've already descended to a reasonable altitude for starting an approach , following a <URL> or vectors from ATC . ATC says something like " N12345 proceed direct MASHA , cleared for the RNAV 36R approach " . That means that you are now cleared to execute the approach as shown on the chart , with no further instruction from ATC ( although they might have vectored you towards the IAF initially ) . The chart tells you that at MASHA you need to be at at least 3000ft MSL so you simply fly there at or above that altitude . Since it 's a GPS approach , you load it and activate it in your GPS unit , and you can follow the GPS track to MASHA . After MASHA , the next fix is ENIKY and the GPS track will lead you east to that fix ( which is a heading of 091 ° from MASHA ) . The profile view at the bottom of the plate shows that you must still be at or above 3000ft at ENIKY . Then you turn left to 002 ° and fly to UJOTY , where you must be at or above 2700ft . Then you continue to GEPDE at or above 1180ft . Then you land :-) Of course , I 'm ignoring a huge amount of detail here - like everything else printed on the approach plate ! - but since this question is about fixes the main point is that they 're simply a series of waypoints that you fly over ( <URL> ) to get to the runway . And obviously you also have to control your altitude as you descend , but the altitude is defined by the approach procedure , it is n't part of the definition of the fix itself . The same fix can be used in multiple approaches : MASHA and FEWER are also the IAFs for the <URL> ) . Even though different approaches define and use fixes in different ways , the basic idea is always the same : just fly from one fix to the next until you get where you 're going .
You are right , more blades are bad for <URL> ( follow the link for the definition ) . <URL> . Every additional blade will cause disturbances which interfere with the flow on the other blades . When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that , the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . This is done by either increasing blade chord or the number of blades . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way to transform that engine power into thrust . Take the Supermarine Spitfire : The prototype , powered by the 1,030 hp <URL> , had a two-bladed propeller From the Mk II , a three-bladed propeller was fitted to accommodate the increasing power of the RR Merlin ( 1,470 hp for the Spitfire Mk V ) . With the <URL> , a four-bladed propeller was needed for the 1,575 hp of the supercharged Merlin 61 . From the <URL> , the more powerful Rolls-Royce Griffon made a five-bladed propeller necessary . Engine power was raised from 1,735 hp to 2,300 hp for the last variant , the Mk XXIV . <URL> Rolls-Royce Griffon-powered Supermarine Spitfire ( picture <URL> ) A lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction . Consequence : You can not make the propeller bigger and spin it more slowly for a given power . An extreme example for a propeller with a high activity ratio is the <URL> contra-rotating propeller of the <URL> powering the <URL> : <URL> SV-27 propellers on the An-70 ( picture <URL> ) . Eight blades in the forward disc and six in the rear , running at only 1200 RPM . In order to reduce Mach effects , all blades have a swept tip and deep chord . This can only be topped by something like an <URL> . A turbofan , in other words .
<URL> lists a number of specific ways that PIREPs are used by meteorologists : To " assess the strength and position of the jet stream " For thunderstorm and snow level forecasting For <URL> of regional weather phenomena , like " downslope wind storms in the lee of the Sierra Nevada " To " determine the likelihood of clouds thinning or burning off " Their summary is : Better reports and observations , not only from PIREPS but also storm spotters , Webcams and road weather networks help improve the picture of what 's going on in the atmosphere . Automated temperature , wind and humidity reports from MDCRS and the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System in commercial aircraft also get incorporated into computer models . All of these observations lead to improved forecasts and warnings . There are a few very generic references out there too . A 2014 edition of <URL> says : The information will then be added to the distribution system to brief other pilots , help generate inflight advisories like AIRMETs and SIGMETs , as well as updates to the Current and Forecast Icing Products ( CIP/FIP ) , and improve overall forecast accuracy . And an <URL> has a brief mention : when the Aviation Weather Center ( AWC ) receives a pirep , meteorologists use it to verify that their weather forecast is correct or amend it if the pirep contradicts the forecast . Finally , PIREPs ( and <URL> ) are shown <URL> , although that probably is n't what you had in mind by meteorologists ' using ' the information .
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
Both are predefined routes through the air which connect the airport areas ( terminal areas ) to the enroute airway system in a way remotely similar to local roads that everyone follows from and to highways . This ensures ( in theory ) an orderly fashion of after departure reaching ( SID ) and leaving towards the airport ( STAR ) the enroute airspaces for all aircraft . SID stands for <URL> . STAR stands for <URL> . The links touch upon everything else .
The magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube , that works as self-excited microwave oscillator . They are used mainly in radar transmitters as either pulsed or cw oscillators at frequencies . In ( civil ) aircraft , they are mostly used in weather radars . They have relatively simple construction but have been replaced in almost all aircraft due to their disadvantages : They can usually work only on a constructively fixed frequency . They have poor reliability . They have high power consumption and have noise issues . They have finite life , considerably lesser than solid state devices . Most of the aircraft operating today use solid state devices in their Radars . It may be still used in some older aircraft and helicopters , but they are becoming increasingly rare . Weather radars are regularly used by pilots to detect the weather conditions in front of them . According to Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Notes : Optimum Use of the Weather Radar The weather radar only detects : Rainfall Wet hail and wet turbulence Ice crystals , dry hail and dry snow . However , these three elements give small reflections compared to water droplets . It does not detect clouds , fog or clear air turbulence . Most of the aircraft in the list were designed 25 + years ago and have ( mostly ) switched over to solid state devices . Aircrafts are rarely used after 30 years as maintenance becomes expensive . However magnetrons are still used in some aircraft due to their simple construction and high power output . For example , the WU-880 Radar Receiver Transmitter Antenna in Honeywell Primus 880 radar used in Falcon 2000EX uses magnetron . Note : Almost all commercial aircraft use convection ovens to heat food ( they wo n't have aluminum foils if they microwave ovens were being used ) ; however , microwave ovens are available for aircraft and are used in some executive aircraft .
How does adding more options for engines for potential customers act as an advantage for the Aircraft Manufacturer ? There are a couple of ways of looking at this Why new options ? Why multiple options Change The A320 has been around a while , engines have improved a lot and newer types of engine exist now that were not available before , even though the A320 type airframe is still competetive . According to Airbus , new choice of engines allow for Lower fuel costs Lower maintenance costs Airbus is working on offering a new engine for the A320 known as the New Engine Option ( NEO ) . The choice for new engines include the CFM International LEAP-X and the Pratt &amp; Whitney PW1400G/PW1500G . The new engines will burn 16 % less fuel : the actual fuel gain on an A320 installation will be slightly less , since 1-2 % is typically lost upon installation on an existing aircraft . Airbus CEO said to be " comfortable " with the projections of 20 % lower maintenance cost for the Pratt &amp; Whitney 's PW1000G family , compared with today 's engines . From <URL> Choice Speculating a little : The people who buy and operate aircraft like having a choice of engine manufacturers . It helps keep the engine market competitive and it means they can , if they want , operate a range of aircraft all using engines from one maker - potentially allowing for savings in engine maintenance infrastructure . Aircraft operators sometimes do n't actually buy engines with their aircraft , they buy thrust from an engine maker and the engine maker ( effectively ) install their engines on the operators aircraft . The engines might remain the property of the maker . It may also be that aircraft makers do n't wish the future of their aircraft to be tied to a single supplier of engines . It makes negotiating harder and it makes their future prosperity dependent on the continued existence of one manufacturer .
Aviation headsets are just like gaming headsets on a computer or console gaming system , except they are sturdier and much more expensive . At the basic end of the spectrum , an aviation headset is just a big clamp style pair of around the ear headphones with a microphone . The cable from the headset has 2 plugs ( for airplanes ) or one plug ( for helicopters ) . These two plug styles are equivalent electronically , with the helicopter cable having an extra conductor in order to include the microphone and headphones in the same plug . The two-plug variant has one plug for the headphones and one of the microphone . These differ from gaming headsets in that the headphone plug is 0.25 " ( the kind a nice stereo receiver uses ) and the microphone plug is 0.206 " . This difference in sizes is to avoid mixing up which plug goes in which jack . Aviation headsets fall into two broad categories : passive noise reduction and active noise reduction ( ANR ) . The passive noise reduction headsets rely on a good seal around the ear and a strong clamping force ( e.g. David Clarks ) . Active noise reduction are somewhat less " clampy " and provide less passive protection but make up for this with the active protection . An ANR headset is money well spent , but these do top out at around \ $ 850 - \ $ 1000 for the top models from Lightspeed and Bose respectively . ANR headsets must be powered to work properly but all ANR headsets still function without power as passive noise reducing headsets . Power for an ANR headset can come from a battery box or from aircraft power but not interchangeably . Aircraft power requires panel installation of a plug specific to the headset brand ( a single connector provides power , headphone and microphone connections ) . In general , unless you happen to own an airplane and install the power plug , you should get the battery version of a headset . The primary purpose of these headsets is to reduce the noise in the cockpit ( they can be very loud ) in order to avoid hearing loss ( yes , it is that loud ) and to facilitate clearer communication with ATC . For quieter airplanes there are in-ear headsets that have more in common with earbuds than the bigger headsets . Some of these are just earplugs wired for sound and some use molds of your ear to provide the seal . The headset is connected to the airplanes audio panel . Audio panels vary in complexity but their basic job is to provide an intercom for communication between occupants of the airplane and access to the com radio for communication with ATC . The audio panel is also able to monitor ( listen ) the navigation radios certain types of beacons . In transport aircraft the audio panel is also tied into the passenger address system and the flight attendant 's phones in the cabin . The headsets can be operated in a hot mic setup or the mic can be explicitly turned on and off . The hot mic is the usual method and the audio panel provides a squelch control so you are n't broadcasting the cockpit noise when not talking . The ATC transmissions are via a push-to-talk ( PTT ) switch . Aviation headsets for the most part do not need to be approved to use in airplanes , but in some situations for US registered aircraft , the requirement of an approved headset can be mandated ( some ( all ? ) 121 carriers ) . The FAA standards for approval are specified in TSO C-57a and C-58a . You 'll find many , but certainly not all , aviation headsets conform to these orders . They define minimum performance characteristics of the electronics , speakers , microphones , etc that make up the headset . How much hearing protection is needed depends greatly on the specific airplane in question . Jets can be on the very loud end of the spectrum ( EMB-145 ) or they can be quiet enough that even passive noise reduction is largely unnecessary . For the noisy end of the spectrum peak wavelengths can be well in excess of 100 dB . I can find reports of 130 db in some smaller airplanes and reports of 84 db in a 737 during cruise , but these numbers are all anecdotal in nature . What is important to take from these is not the specific numbers but that they are high enough to cause hearing loss during prolonged exposure . The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders defines 85 dB as the threshold for hearing damage from long or repeated exposure . Passive headsets generally advertise noise reduction around 20 dB ( 23 dB for the venerable David Clarks ) and some people will wear earplugs under a headset to further increase the passive noise reduction . A cursory look at ANR headsets reveal that they tend not to advertise their performance and instead specify maximum ambient noise levels for ANR to properly function ( around 120-125 dB for Bose and Lightspeed headsets ) . I can personally add an anecdote that both the Lightspeed Zulu and Bose X make dramatic changes in noise level ( both of these headsets are now outdated and replaced by newer versions ) . For most smaller airplanes you will wear the head
end question
start question
What is the stress tolerance of landing gear of commercial aircraft ?
First off , the thud and deceleration may be more related to the conditions as well as the runway length than pilot skill , but lets discuss some of your questions . 1 ) Please elaborate on the stress tolerances built into various parts of the landing gear of common commercial aircraft , such as the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 ? This is a complex question to answer simply as airplane gear sees lost of loads and some compromises are made for simplicity of operation . For one the rubber used on the tires is quite thick since some of it does wear away on every landing since the gear is not spinning when the plane touches down ( you can <URL> ) The tradeoff here is weight ( you need to haul the tires around with you ) but they can be used for many cycles . The vertical load is generally handled by an <URL> these allow for a margin of error but they ( or the gear system ) can be bottomed out and a <URL> . The last serious load that gear sees is usually side loads when a crosswind landing is made . These are tough to mitigate and its generally the job of the pilot to reduce these loads they will manifest them selves as tire wear and mechanical wear . Perhaps the coolest solution to this was the B-52 's full rotating gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) One of the more interesting non Oleo designs for GA gear is the rubber disks used on Mooneys . These are said to require less maintenance and are easier to replace but are far less forgiving than Oleo struts . <URL> ( <URL> ) Some of the vertical force is absorbed by the tire its self when the plane touches down the tire does ballon out a bit . As such it is of vital importance that the tire pressure is within a small margin since low pressure can cause excessive ballooning which would lead to side wear depending on gear design . 2 ) What kind of stress testing is done on crucial parts of the landing gear , such as tyres , wheels , axles and hydraulic parts ? These parts are generally made by different manufactures and are designed to comply with the aircrafts specs as set fourth by the builder ( Boeing etc ) . Like everything else on a plane these parts have a cycle life ( TO/LD ) and are replaced when necessary . Since they are high impact I would assume the life is on the shorter side generally speaking . Here is <URL> on how to care and maintain tires for aircrafts . Heres some good info on <URL> as well . 3 ) What are the backups and fail-safe measures designed into such landing gear ? This depends on the plane , bigger planes generally need to spread the load out over more axles/tires which gives them greater redundancy a plane like a 747 has 2 sets of twin axle main gear on each side of the plane so you could lose an axle and still be ok ( relatively speaking ) <URL> ( <URL> ) compare this with a 737 and you will see that the main gear is less redundant as its a single axle only system . In this case losing one of two tires would be less catastrophic than losing all the gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) Compare this all to a smaller GA plane where you generally have a single wheel situation <URL> ( <URL> ) The one thing all these planes have in common is that the nose wheel is the most delicate part of the landing gear . Hard landings on the nose wheel can collapse the gear or cause porpoising both of which are bad . This is what happens if the gear does not <URL> in other words that nose gear saw complete side loads . Planes have be successfully landed with collapsed nose gear or nose gear that wont come down . Its a sight but generally speaking its not the worst thing to happen . Sensors : The only sensor I know of on the gear ( and this is plane dependent ) is the <URL> which is a simple on off for being on the ground or not . The FDR will record 3-axis acceleration but that will be of the airframe which is behind the Oleo struts so the gear its self may see higher loads .
Using TLAR ( That Looks About Right ) . Pilot turns off a runway onto a taxiway spur and sees the runway safety area lines and just estimates a point beyond roughly equal to or greater than the length of the fuselage and places the cockpit over that point . Other methods include geo-referenced airport diagrams on a moving map display showing the position of the aircraft .
14.5 % given in the article is the ( maximum ) thickness to chord ratio , expressed in percentage . It is usually used to explain how thin ( or thick ) the airfoil is . Note that this is a characteristic of the airfoil . From the NASA page <URL> : <URL> Airfoil thickness to chord ratio , image from NASA page <URL> ... The straight line drawn from the leading to trailing edges of the airfoil is called the chord line . ... The maximum distance between the two lines is called the camber , which is a measure of the curvature of the airfoil ( high camber means high curvature ) . The maximum distance between the upper and lower surfaces is called the thickness . Often you will see these values divided by the chord length to produce a non-dimensional or " percent " type of number .
As you have intimated in the question , how hard you hit the ground is very dependent on a number of factors . When I did my training to jump using a classical tethered round chute we practiced landing from a platform of about 5 feet , so six is perhaps a hard landing . That 's , roughly , hitting the ground at 12mph . Folks like the Red Devils typically use an parafoil chute . Basically a self inflating wing . These can be steered and pitched upward to bring the trooper to a stall or even go up if they have enough forward velocity . So yes , you will often see them stop in mid-air and step down . This means this type of parachute has NO equivalent jump height . In fact if flown incorrectly you can crash into the ground at serious speeds . <URL> Regular " military style " parachutes provide no control over lift and only minor control over direction . With these your descent rate is totally dependent on size , weight and air quality . <URL> Interestingly , with a regular chute , what makes landings " harder " is not so much the effective height but the amount of horizontal velocity . You are trained to drop and roll when you hit the ground to absorb the impact . <URL> This works great if you have any horizontal velocity to help you initiate the roll . If however you are coming straight down it 's not so easy . . and your knees end up in your chest ... as I found out the one and only time I jumped out of an aging Cessna . Too much horizontal velocity and that roll gets rather violent .
The landing gears are manufactured by Messier-Dowty , a Safran group company . According to <URL> , Safran Landing Systems is responsible for the design , development , qualification testing , manufacture and support of the main landing gear for the A350-900 aircraft . Also , Safran Landing Systems also provides wheel and carbon brakes for the A350 , as well as the landing gear extension-retraction system , monitoring system , steering system and braking system . The landing gear design <URL> : The A350-900 main landing gear ... includes the increased use of advanced materials , in particular high strength titanium , corrosion resistant steels and HVOF coatings . <URL> A350 landing gear materials , from <URL>
It 's not there because it 's like driving with the handbrake on . [ The flight ] was climbing out of Kolkata , however achieved an unusually poor climb rate , was not able to accelerate to normal cruise speeds and leveled off at FL200 after a continuous climb for about 30 minutes ( <URL> ) . And because the flight crew should have run the ' after takeoff ' checklist , which includes checking that the landing gear is up and locked . <URL> ( <URL> ) A typical Airbus A320 checklist . Related : <URL>
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
It looks like the first plane that actually flew and had at least a partially-retractable undercarriage was a German racing plane , the Wiencziers Renneindecker , from 1911 : You can see the undercarriage designed to collapse to the rear , using a hand crank in the cockpit to lift the gear . Not a great idea by today 's standards as the gear would be prone to collapse on landing , but it apparently worked well enough at the time . There are plans for retractable landing gear dating back to the late 1800s , before powered flight in such a craft was ever achieved , but they did n't become common on planes until just after WWI . Even then , for relatively slow planes ( < 200mph ) it remains common even today to keep the gear fixed and wrap the wheels in a cowl , as for only a ~ 4 % increase in drag over a full retractable setup , you save a lot of weight and mechanical complexity . Notable fixed-gear craft in military service through WWII include the German Ju87 Stuka and the Nakajima Ki-27 " Nate " . Though most of the American wartime air fleet had retractable gear as of just after the start of WWII , practically every WWII air corps draftee trained on either a BT-11 or one of the biplane trainers like the PT-13 / 17/18 . Today , plenty of civvie small craft have fixed gear , such as the Cessna 150 , 172 and variants , Piper Cubs and Cherokees , some Beechcraft Musketeers , etc etc. .
According to <URL> , is defined as : ... the period between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , or such other period between sunset and sunrise as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority , as defined by the Member State . ( The FAA and ICAO use a similar definition . ) You can get the Civil Twilight times from <URL> , but ignoring the specifics , the same rule of thumb the FAA uses for purposes of night currency will likely work for you too : Night starts one hour after sunset ( Sunset being when the last of the visible sun disc drops below the horizon . ) Night ends one hour before sunrise ( Sunrise being when the first of the visible sun disk breaks the horizon . ) This actually cheats you out of a few minutes of " night " on either side of the calculation , but it 's conservative guidance if you 're conservative in what you log you wo n't accidentally mess up and give yourself more night time than you 're really entitled too ( i.e. you wo n't make yourself " night current " when you really are n't ) . Note that I 'm a US pilot -- since all my flying and training is based on FAA regs in the US if I 'm completely off the mark and any European pilots or CFIs want to set me right it would be much appreciated :-)
Skew is essentially when the flap does n't extend or retract straight back . Picture a situation where you have a 1 meter wide board you 're pushing down a track that 's slightly wider than the board . Your left hand is about a quarter of the way in from the left edge , and your right hand similarly in from the right edge . As long as you push straight down the track , evenly , with both hands , the board slides along and does n't contact the edge . Now suppose that your right hand pushes harder than your left hand : the board will start to turn , and the edges of the board will contact the edges of the track . The skew sensor detects that this sort of misalignment is starting to happen , and causes the flap drive to stop . Ideally , this takes place before the flap makes physical contact with any other hardware , so nothing is damaged ! Edit : <URL> . You can see that there are multiple flaps on each wing , and while normally everything moves in synch , you can envision how if one actuator stopped working , the errant flap could get turned pretty far out of alignment , make contact with other hardware , and cause some significant damage . So before this happens , the skew sensor sends the command back to stop everything from moving . From Boeing 's <URL> : The 757-300 has incorporated a flap skew detection system . Flap skew occurs when either the inboard or outboard edge of the flap moves farther than the rest of the flap . The flap skew detection system monitors , detects , and shuts down the flaps if a skew condition occurs . The heart of this system is the flap slat accessory module ( FSAM ) , taking the place of the flap slat electronic unit ( FSEU ) number 3 . The new LRU was introduced because the existing configuration of the FSEU would not accommodate the addition of the flap skew circuits . The flap skew sensors are mounted on the trailing edge of the flap jack screws ( fig. 4a ) . The sensor ( fig. 4b ) is fixed to the flap track , and a target ( which contains magnets ) is mounted to the jackscrews . As the jackscrew begins to turn , the target also turns . This will pulse the sensor , and a signal ( distance traveled ) is sent to the FSAM , which compares this signal with the opposite side of the same flap . If the distances traveled by either side of the flap differ by a predetermined amount , the FSAM will shut down the flap system to help eliminate damage to the flap and surrounding structure and the possible loss of a flap in flight . The alternate flap mode will override the normal flap skew detection function , allowing maintenance personnel to move the flaps after maintenance has been performed . Maintenance personnel must verify the flap fault and also ensure that moving the flap will not cause any damage .
None . While a number of aircraft are certified for autoland with automatic rollout until safe taxi speed , and some can have the autopilot control rollout until the aircraft completely stops , no commercial aircraft has autopilot control of various critical parts for landing such as the flaps and the landing gear .
I want to measure a commercial speed for Concorde flights . The answer was given by Andy in his comments providing links to websites that recorded past timetables for Concorde : <URL> and <URL> Timetable schedule must take into account time difference between cities so that a British Airways Concorde flight JFK 12h15 to LHR 21h00 with -5 hours difference will give a 3h45 of commercial flight duration . Surprisingly , to me at least , trade winds did not seem to play a significant role in this measurement because timetable on the reverse route exhibit similar duration . Air France flights follow the same rationale . The measurement indicate a general figure of 3h45 for transatlantic Concorde flights . Next step is determining the kilometre distance . As I want a geographical time-distance I care only about <URL> and do not care about the exact path followed by the flight which would tell about aircraft/pilot/airline performance . I used the <URL> website . My only issue is measuring the performance ( speed ) of the transport system in getting from point A to point B . So I finally have my figure : 5 850 km / 3h45 = 1 560 km/h was the commercial speed of Concorde ( or 969 mph in non international units ) .
Based on its fixed-wing hypersonic design and inordinately high wing loading , I would predict that the X-15 has the highest recommend landing speed of any earthbound aircraft , with a preliminary search seemingly bearing this hypothesis out . According to an ostensibly legitimate NASA source ( link below ) , the X-15 's normal landing speed was 200 + mph ( 173.8 kts = 321.9 kph ) , <URL> But if unofficial sources are to be believed , its actual landing speed was much higher , closer to 390kph = 208kts ( although these numbers are admittedly more dubious ) : " According to an early edition of ' the Guinness book of world records ' the X15 also holds the record for fastest landing speed at 242 mph compared with 210 mph for the space shuttle . " <URL> If only powered aircraft are open to consideration , then the F-104 Starfighter would have to be up there as well . It needed a blown-flap flow control system just to be sane during landing ... " To make landing speeds " reasonable , " The F-104 forced engine air through the wings to smooth the airflow and give more lift . With bleed air , the Zipper could land at the challenging but not extreme speed of 160 to 165 knots . If the air-bleed system was not working , landing speeds climbed to 240 knots . " <URL> So , if mechanical failure scenarios are deemed admissible , then the F-104 without its crucial boundary layer control systems would be the clear winner for powered landing speed , weighing in at an absolutely terrifying 240 kts . Otherwise , it would appear that the X-15 ( unofficially ) reigns supreme .
The scheduled time is the EOBT . Flights that depart within 15 minutes of it are considered on-time . Standard taxi times for each airport are included in the scheduled flight time .
Baggage , yes , landing gear , no . The fuselage of an airliner is typically " capped " by two bulkheads , the forward and aft pressure bulkheads . These are roughly spherical sections that seal the central " cylinder " of the aircraft 's fuselage . Here 's a 787 's forward bulkhead : <URL> ... and a 767 's aft pressure bulkhead : <URL> Practically all the space in the fuselage itself between these two bulkheads is pressurized during high-altitude flight . This includes the baggage compartment . Gear assemblies , however , are typically not pressurized . For some jets like the 737 , this is fairly obvious : <URL> Other designs with full doors for the gear assemblies are n't as obvious , but in general it 's neither feasible nor desirable to pressurize the landing gear housings when airborne .
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
There are lots of forces acting on the gear at the point of landing . The best way to minimize loads on the gear is to land smooth ( I know that sounds obvious ) . For what it 's worth you do not necessarily want to spin up the gear before landing for a few reasons . First off you would need to spin up the gear to precisely ( or at least very close to ) the speed that the plane was going to touch down at . If you spin the gear up faster you actually will create a problem by accelerating the plane when it touches down . Spinning the gear up can also have a serious <URL> ( since you now have a fast rotating mass ) ( <URL> ) that will affect the handling of the aircraft . On top of that remember that in aviation it 's often about cost . What are the costs to maintain a system that pre-spins the gear vs the cost of tires . Some times its actually cheaper and easier to make a part that wears out some what quickly and replace it often , then design a complex system that require maintenance and up keep . It appears that <URL> for spin up have been looked into but the rotational inertia problem seems to be more of a concern than wheal wear . I would imagine that unintentional side loads on gear are a bigger issue and bigger cause of wear on the landing assembly . Keep in mind that the addition of an assembly like this also adds weight to the aircraft , and no one likes weight that is not needed . This is a great <URL> on the topic that suggests ( in their conclusion ) a pre spin situation would see 1.07 % of the wear of a static situation . They go on to state that that they used a simple linear approximation and only accounted for forces in one direction but it would seem that it is beneficial for the tire . On a side note <URL> even suggests the tires can be remolded so even if the are replaced often it seems they are recycled a few times . an A340 will complete roughly 6,000 take-offs and landings , calling for about 25 sets of replacement tires , each 1.30 m high and weighing about 200 kg . The tires can be remolded several times before they are finally scrapped . In general , it 's the job of the pilot to reduce the forces on the landing gear when landing . One of the best descriptions I have ever heard of landing is that the goal is not to land but to " transition " . In other words what you really want to do is transition the load from the wings to the landing gear as smooth as possible , this will reduce the load on the gear . In some cases ( short runway heavy plane ) your landing may see more force on the gear . I have never flown a 737 , but I can tell you that I can put a Piper Warrior down on a 7000-foot strip with out ever feeling that you have touched the ground .
<URL> shows the following table for two aircraft ( the large commercial jet the B747-100 , and the military jet the C-5A ) . You can see that if differs quite a lot between the B747 and the C-5 already , so it 's hard to give a definitive answer for all aircraft in general . Also , it depends a lot on how you break down the components , for example , here the Nacelle and Propulsion system are shown seperately , but if you combine the two ( and some others as is done in the dry engine weight , I think ) things could change . The Aerospace Engineering e-Mega Reference points to <URL> as the source for the numbers . Perhaps you could find some information there about what belongs to which group . However for both aircraft , it can be seen that the Wing and the Airframe are significant contributors ( and for the B747 furnishing is also a large part of the weight ) I think they included all the wiring in the Avionics part ( that would make sense to me ) , but still it is a relatively small part of the total weight . <URL>
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
end question
start question
Does load factor limit actually change with aircraft weight ?
Yes , the limits are always set by the worst combination of weight , loading , flight speed and expected gust speed . They are valid over the full range of parameters for simplicity reasons . Note that the load factor limits are not directly proportional to the aircraft 's overall weight , but the <URL> . An empty fuselage and full wing tanks allow the aircraft to pull more gs or fly faster until the maximum wing bending moment is reached when flying through the maximum expected gust . Calculating the precise load limit during each stage of a flight would put excessive demands on any pilot and increase the risk of errors . All components should be sized so that they fail at 150 % of calculated maximum loads . In real aircraft some secondary considerations like the availability of sheet metal gauges or extruded profiles put a limit to this local optimization , but technically the chance for breaking is the same for all structural parts . All the failures described in your question have happened in the past when aircraft were overstressed or improperly designed .
If the airflow is parallel to the axis of rotation of a propeller , the resulting thrust force will also be parallel to the axis of rotation and act on the center of the propeller disc . If , however , the airflow hits the propeller at an angle of less than 90 ° , the resulting force will tilt towards the flow direction and shift away from the center of the propeller disc in a direction orthogonal to the directional change . Example : You fly in a single-engined plane , the two-bladed prop is spinning clockwise when seen from the pilot 's view and you push the left pedal such that the aircraft flies in a sideslip . If both propeller blades are level , nothing much changes , but if the propeller turns another 90 ° , both blades will see very different flow conditions ( see the sketch below ) : For the upper blade , which moves from left to right , the sum of circumferential speed ( $ \ omega \ cdot r _ { Prop } $ , red ) and air speed ( $ v _ { \ infty } $ , blue ) is bigger than that of the lower blade ( black arrows ) and hits the blade at a larger effective angle of attack $ \ alpha _ { eff } $ . Thus , the lift force created by the upper blade is much bigger , and as a result it will act at a point on the upper half of the propeller disc . The same happens when the plane flies at a high angle of attack and high power ( ground run of a taildragger , or climb ) and the airflow hits the propeller disc slightly from below . Now the thrust force will move to the right and tilt slightly downward . This will cause the aircraft to turn to the left and must be compensated with right rudder . This effect is sometimes called p-factor , but this is not a factor in an equation , but something you need to factor in when flying at high angle of attack . Note that the rotational component of the prop wash will cause a similar effect when it hits the rudder at an angle , adding to the leftward tendency of the plane .
Yes , it should . In the end , <URL> is just a funny word for the out-of-center shift of the thrust vector , and if the vector is larger , the effect should be equally larger .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
<URL> shows the following table for two aircraft ( the large commercial jet the B747-100 , and the military jet the C-5A ) . You can see that if differs quite a lot between the B747 and the C-5 already , so it 's hard to give a definitive answer for all aircraft in general . Also , it depends a lot on how you break down the components , for example , here the Nacelle and Propulsion system are shown seperately , but if you combine the two ( and some others as is done in the dry engine weight , I think ) things could change . The Aerospace Engineering e-Mega Reference points to <URL> as the source for the numbers . Perhaps you could find some information there about what belongs to which group . However for both aircraft , it can be seen that the Wing and the Airframe are significant contributors ( and for the B747 furnishing is also a large part of the weight ) I think they included all the wiring in the Avionics part ( that would make sense to me ) , but still it is a relatively small part of the total weight . <URL>
Besides aluminum alloys , most of an airplane 's weight is steel , titanium , and composites . Here is a chart comparing the 747 and 777 structural weight , with a breakdown <URL> : <URL> Steel is used in components where strength or part life is most important , like landing gear and other important structural elements , as well as many fasteners . Titanium is used where weight and high temperature are important , such as around the engines . Composites are traditionally used for many less-structural applications such as panels and fairings , but may also be used in the empennage ( tail surfaces ) or on the interior as floor beams . Other materials will include alloys like nickel , as well as specialty materials like rubber , plastic , and fabric , which are used mostly in the cabin . New aircraft like the 787 and <URL> use composites much more extensively , replacing much of the aluminum . Titanium is also used more in these aircraft because it does not tend to corrode in contact with carbon fiber composite like aluminum does . <URL> Federico pointed out that the two graphics differ in the amount of aluminum on the 777 ( 70 % on the first vs. 50 % on the second ) , because the first chart shows only structural weight , while the second is overall .
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
Boarding takes a long time , true . There are <URL> which <URL> to speed up boarding by between 20 % and 50 % , still they are not adopted . Why ? You need to load the baggage , too . Also the catering . And fuel . You need to inspect the aircraft , run through checklists and brief the new crew . This all takes up time , too . Airlines do not see a big saving by loading passengers faster , and then waiting for all other jobs to be completed . Your radical idea of containerizing passenger transport would certainly speed up things , but it would cost a lot of payload . The most efficient pressure vessel is a sphere , and the next efficient is a cylinder with spherical ends . Pressurizing a boxy container is structurally very inefficient . Loading passengers on palettes first and sliding those palettes through a narrow opening takes time in itself . And the palettes have their own weight , their own floor , their own support structure for the baggage racks , their own cabeling for the entertainment system . They would , however , not need their independent pressurization , so their weight impact would be moderate . A possible " flatbed " airliner which could attain the shortest boarding times has only half as much fuselage height ( or less ) to transmit bending loads along its length . <URL> for an example of buckling in a fuselage skin due to bending loads . Now consider that reducing height by 50 % will need four times more cross section in the longerons to keep stiffness constant . That will make the fuselage much heavier . In the end , airlines go with the solution which maximizes their profits . By using a hollow cylinder and let their " cargo " self-load , they can maximize their payload and get tolerable boarding times . Tolerable for them , that is . That better loading procedures could allow you to come to the airport later is of no interest to them . If they would see an advantage in shorter boarding times , there would be ample of opportunity by improving strategies , even with existing airplane designs .
The components of attitude vector are called : yaw ( or heading ) is the angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis in horizontal plane , pitch is angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis from the horizontal and roll is angle of lateral ( y ) axis from the intersection of the yz ( orthogonal to longitudinal axis ) plane with horizontal . And their derivatives are usually yaw-rate , pitch-rate and roll-rate . Second derivative names probably vary . Regarding coordinate system , the first axis , called x , is always longitudinal and positive direction is forward . The second axis , called y , is usually lateral one , but positive direction is right in some systems and left in others . And z completes a right-handed coordinate system ( so your vector products work the usual way ) , so z down if y points right . Edit : I thought u , v , w is sometimes used as alias for the axis , but actually they are usually rather used for the velocity vector components .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
That ground instructor is giving you bad information . You can not make a blanket statement like " full nose up trim " and expect it to be valid for any and all situations . You are correct that the best L/D speed will yield the best glide ratio and that the speed will vary with weight . The best trim position is the one that will maintain the best glide speed hands off . Any other trim position will require an additional control input to fight the trim and that input will cause additional drag . So no , full nose up trim will not yield the best glide unless by some remarkable coincidence that is also the trim position for hands off best glide speed .
Depending on how long you are storing the plane , there are different options . Some planes may be used or sold in the future . They are just waiting for the market conditions to improve so that the owner can afford to operate it again , or someone else would be willing to buy it . Some planes are too old for anyone to want to buy them . In this case , they are most useful to the current owner , so they store them in case they will be useful in the future . Another possibility is spare parts . While the plane is stored , it can be slowly disassembled to provide parts for other aircraft still in service . Once all useful parts are removed , it will be chopped up into scrap metal . Recently , some new aircraft are being stored <URL> . There is also a case where the Air Force decided to purchase some planes , but later decided they did n't really need them . It 's cheaper to send them to storage than cancel the contract , so <URL> . You can rent hangar space somewhere to store the plane . This is much harder to do for larger planes , and hangar space is expensive and limited . However , it obviously offers the best conditions for the plane , where it can be protected from the weather . This is more likely to be a short term solution unless the plane is very important ( or the owner has deep pockets ) . Another option is the " <URL> : " <URL> Areas like the US southwest have very low humidity year round , which reduces the amount of corrosion on an airframe . Airplanes are designed to be outside most of the time anyway , so they will hold up pretty well . Windows may be covered to keep the internal temperatures down , and certain gaps may be covered as well . Small airplanes may be completely wrapped in plastic . Some examples of this include the boneyard at <URL> in Tucson , AZ , where the US military parks its planes , and nearby <URL> , where many civilian aircraft are stored .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
The compression ratio of the turbo machinery will not change with altitude as long as the speed of the compressor does not change ( excluding Reynolds number effects ) . This will lower the maximum pressure in parallel with the outside pressure . However , to create the same lift at altitude , the aircraft has to fly faster . In 10 km , where the air density is roughly 1/4 of sea level density , the airplane has to fly twice as fast . Also , air temperature drops with altitude , so the <URL> even more . And this Mach number determines how much <URL> happens ahead of and in the intake . Flying fast will increase the intake pressure level , which partially compensates for the lower atmospheric pressure . Since the pressure rises with the square of the Mach number , fast airplanes have a clear advantage here . Take the <URL> : Its <URL> had a compression ratio of measly 12 , but the precompression around the intake added another factor of 7 at Mach 2 , so the total pressure ratio between the peak pressure in the engine and outside air was over 80 ! Admittedly , this air pressure was only 76 mbar at the cruising altitude of the Concorde , so the absolute peak pressure in the engine was a much less impressive 6 bar . Typical compression ratios To answer the question about typical compression ratios : This correlates strongly with the age of the design : The first operational turbojet , the Junkers Jumo 004 of 1943 , had a compression ratio of just 3.2 using 7 compressor stages . The more recent <URL> of the Eurofighter achieves a compression ratio of around 26 with a similar size and weight using 8 compressed stages , but produces almost 7 times more thrust . The main difference is better aerodynamics . The <URL> achieve a pressure ratio of around 50 using 15 compressor stages . They can afford to compress the air more because they try to heat and accelerate the air as little as necessary during the combustion process . Since the maximum heat inside the engine is limited by the materials used , a higher compression in military engines would leave less thermal margin for combustion heating . The higher nozzle velocities of supersonic-capable engines are best achieved with less compression and more combustion heating . Here is a plot of the pressure ratio trends for commercial transport engines ( <URL> ) <URL>
Your question is about friction drag while the text is mainly about aspect ratio . You seem to explain the choice of aspect ratio to be based on friction drag . This is not correct . <URL> and <URL> are some good answers to explain the choice of aspect ratio . You will see that it has mostly to do with structural strength and wing volume to pack enough fuel . For supersonic aircraft the <URL> provides a highly swept leading edge , a stiff , light wing and good low-speed characteristics even with the thin airfoils which are helpful in supersonic flight . Generally , aspect ratio becomes less important the faster the aircraft flies , because it has more air flowing past per unit of time for creating lift . At supersonic speed some of the drag is proportional to the local inclination of the surface , so the designers try to make the aircraft <URL> . To put it bluntly , a subsonic aircraft likes to be as wide as possible to reduce <URL> , while a supersonic aircraft likes being longer to reduce <URL> . Friction drag will go up with the square of velocity if all other parameters are constant . Since a higher velocity increases the Reynolds number ( the ratio of inertial to viscous forces ) , in the real world the increase is slightly less than with the square of velocity . Since lift also goes up with velocity squared , the airplane can <URL> where the density is lower , which reduces both lift and drag . Now you need to consider the change in temperature over altitude : Air gets cooler when it expands , and cooler air causes higher viscous forces . By flying higher , the Reynolds number goes down again and the viscous drag goes up . In total , flying faster and higher will result in a <URL> at the same lift . If you <URL> you will find that lengthening the flow path will generally increase drag less than proportionally . Only when the boundary layer is laminar and lengthening the flow path adds a turbulent transition will you find that <URL> more than proportionally . <URL> , but mostly it comes sooner than the engineers like . Please follow the links and read the linked answers , only then is this answer complete .
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
Your instinct is correct ; almost all of the key airspeeds -- those at which something special happens aerodynamically -- vary with weight . There 's a distinction , though , between " speeds at which something special happens aerodynamically " and " regulatory limiting speeds that prevent you from doing something bad . " For example , VNE is a regulatory value ; it is prohibited to exceed this speed at any weight . This value includes a safety margin and is determined from flight test data . Nothing special happens aerodynamically at the published VNE speed . ( Thank goodness ! ) The special stuff , like <URL> or structural failure , happens at some speed well above VNE , regardless of your weight ( as long as it 's within the allowable CG envelope of course ) . Another example , VFE , is similar . Nothing special happens at this speed . It 's just a safety value : as long as you 're below this speed , you wo n't tear the flaps off the plane if you extend them , regardless of your weight . Almost all speeds that are n't " regulatory limits " do indeed change with weight . Some examples : VA design maneuvering speed VX best angle of climb speed VY best rate of climb speed VR rotation speed VS0 landing configuration stall speed VS1 " specific " configuration stall speed For larger multi-engine airplanes that you 'll encounter later in your flying career : V1 engine failure recognition speed ( or takeoff decision speed ) V2 takeoff safety speed VMC minimum control speed ( Note that a lot more factors besides just weight can go into these latter speeds , such as atmospheric conditions and <URL> . ) For small airplanes , it is common to publish these speeds as single values , measured at gross weight . For many of them there are also graphs in the performance section that show you how the actual speed varies with weight . For larger aircraft , the performance graphs ( or calculations ) are always used . For example , you wo n't use a single " stall speed " value from a handy table in the " POH " of a 747 . In these types of aircraft , key numbers are calculated as needed on each flight for current weight .
The empty weight of airplanes can only be given to single-pound precision for one specific airplane . Minute differences in metal sheet thickness , equipment and paint will make sure that there is a difference of many pounds between airplanes of the same type and furnishing . Add to this the difference in seating , galleys and instrumentation between airplanes of the same type which are operated by different airlines , and a precise number as in your question becomes almost meaningless . A better way would be to give a range in which most airplanes will fall , or to round the number like the Concorde weight of your question . Weighing is quite straightforward : All tires of the landing gear are placed on scales and the weights are summed up . If the attitude of the airplane does not change , the weight on the tires can even be measured consecutively , so only one scale is needed . Small floatplanes can be suspended from a crane with a scale in the line holding the aircraft . In <URL> 's biography he remembers an aircraft deal with the Soviet Union in the late 1920s . He had to deliver five floatplanes of a specified weight , and the Russian approval inspectors insisted on all planes having the exact same weight . Of course the planes were not identically heavy , but his advantage was that the scale in his factory was indicating the weight by printing it on cards . So the evening before the inspectors came , he let one aircraft be weighed five times , put the cards back into the machine and had the printing mechanism disabled . The next day he closed the business successfully with his very happy Russian guests .
These weights are all based on the maximum an aircraft will ever see . The maximum allowed weight of passengers ( + luggage ) and cargo ( called payload weight ) is the difference between the Operational empty weight ( about 270,000 kg ) and the Zero fuel weight ( 361,000 kg ) . This means the payload weight is about 91,000 kg . The passenger and crew weight can be estimated by the following numbers : 175 lbs per pax + 30 lbs of baggage for short medium range distance ( or 40 lbs for long range ) 175 lbs per crew member + 30 lbs of baggage $ ^ 1 $ So let 's say that ( for easier calculations ) the average passenger + luggage weight is 100 kg . When we assume 530 passengers and 25 crew , then the weight would be $ 555 \ times100 = 55,000 kg $ . That leaves 36,000 kg for cargo . All the weights listed are , of course , maximum weights . That means that an aircraft in general does not meet these values . The maximum fuel weight is the difference between maximum ramp weight and zero fuel weight ( which is $ 562,000-361 ,000 = 201,000 kg $ ) . About 2,000 kg is taken for the time the engines are running while the aircraft did not yet take of ( for taxiing etc ) . This is the difference between maximum ramp weight and MTOW . The amount of fuel varies so much per flight that I really ca n't say anything about it . It depends on the air pressure in the flight path ( aircraft choose their routes depending on that , for a faster flight ) , weather along the route , and much more . For quite a good overview I suggest for you to read <URL> . I hope I answered your question sufficiently . $ ^ 1 $ Source : Jan Roskam , Airplane design , Part I : Preliminary Sizing of Airplanes ( 1985 )
The tricky part is that a de facto rule is unlike a de jure rule , it 's hard to pinpoint its origin as it is not based in law . The more I dig , the more it seems it is indeed a de facto rule that found its way to Annex 11 . It would take a team of aviation historians hunting through countless meeting points to get to the bottom of it . However , I gathered some clues , mostly in reverse chronological order : For the 250 knots during climb I found : ICAO 's REVIEW OF NOISE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE RESEARCH &amp; DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS Target climb speeds are given as V2 plus , no attempt was made to specify the actual target speed as it is accepted that the segment is flown to the manufacturer 's specified safety speed . It just so happens 250 is a numerical rounding that matches most aircraft , except for heavies loaded up for long-haul flights . Numerous parties were involved : ... various parties , including universities , regulatory agencies , manufacturers , air carriers and airports . So everyone came together , and agreed to 250 knots . But that 's recent and has to do with noise . ICAO Journal TOWARDS A PERFORMANCE-BASED NAVIGATION SOLUTION Pilots should also avoid airspeeds of more than 250 knots below 10,000 feet above ground level ( AGL ) , especially at times of the year when birds are migrating . Aircraft speed is more critical than bird size ( body mass ) in causing collision damage . Someone should tell the geese to stop flying at <URL> . ( <URL> . ) Activities of the European Office from 1954 to 1958 ( <URL> ) They discussed the advent of the jet age , and how the prop aircraft speeds of 250 knots are being exceeded leading to research into the consequences . At that time , namely what affected the ATC and navigation systems because jet planes were relatively crossing sectors much faster . It 's not much but this section hints at the origin of 250 knots : ... significant increase in cruising speed of the jet-aircraft over the propeller-driven airline [ ... ] around 400 knots = 750 km/h versus 250 knots = 450 km/h ... REPORT OF THE EIGHTEENTH MEETING OF THE APANPIRG ATM/AIS/SAR SUB-GROUP Appendix 4 to Annex 11 speed limitations of 250 kt below 10 000 ft AMSL are required for certain airspace classes . Annex 11 history : In October 1945 , The Rules of the Air and Air Traffic Control ( RAC ) Division at its first session made recommendations for Standards , Practices and Procedures for Air Traffic Control . These were reviewed by the then Air Navigation Committee and approved by the Council on 25 February 1946 . They were published as Recommendations for Standards , Practices and Procedures -- Air Traffic Control in the second part of Doc 2010 , published in February 1946 . Chapter 2 2.6.3 The requirements for flights within each class of airspace shall be as shown in the table in Appendix 4 . Appendix 4 lists the now de facto limit . It does n't say why , so it 's most likely it 's what everyone agreed on at that convention and consequent meetings . 8 December 1959 is likely the date when an amendment was added to Annex 11 that detailed those figures in Appendix 4 we now know . That 's 8 years before the FAA . Check <URL> for the FAA 's side of the story if interested . Without access to meeting points , that 's the most I could find . Short version of the above : At numerous conventions and meetings beginning in the 50 's , many parties met again and again to discuss the jet-to-prop traffic separation , the noise impact of jet planes , and the dangers of bird strikes . They concluded V2 plus speeds should be used , but since civilian jet aircraft have the same performance more or less , the 250/10 ,000 rule found its way to the requirements of airspaces . It 's not hard evidence , but given what I found , it 's not far fetched to assume the above is correct . Over to you .
end question
start question
What special handling characteristics or techniques do biplanes have ?
Short answer : For clarification : Equivalence between biplane and monoplane means than both have the same wing area and the same engine . Then the main differences in maneuvering are : The biplane has better roll acceleration than an equivalent monoplane . The biplane has a higher roll rate than an equivalent monoplane at the same speeds . All biplane flying takes place at lower speeds , resulting in a lower space requirement for all maneuvers . This also means that inertial effects are less pronounced : When pulling up , there is less kinetic energy available for climbing , so ( for example ) hammerhead turns will end with less altitude gain . Differences in handling : The biplane has lower aileron forces for the same roll rate at the same speed lighter control forces overall due to lower flight speed Differences in performance : shorter take-off and landing distances a lower stall speed a much lower maximum speed a lower optimum cruise speed and range a lower power requirement due to the lower flying speeds , or if both use the same engine , a better power-to-weight ratio when compared to an equivalent monoplane . These differences are most pronounced if the airplane carries just the pilot and not much payload . Flying techniques are the same as for monoplanes . Indirectly , differences are likely due to differences in design . Example : Few biplanes profit from having a retractable landing gear while gear retraction makes sense for monoplanes with higher power loading ( installed power relative to wing area ) . Explanation Biplanes have two major differences : Smaller wing span at the same wing area , and Wire bracing results in very lightweight biplane wings . The smaller span reduces roll damping and roll inertia , so a biplane will accelerate into a roll more quickly than an equivalent monoplane and will reach a higher roll rate . This is the main difference in maneuvering . The smaller wing span results in more induced drag if both have the same mass and the same speed . With wire bracing , this condition is unrealistic , and an equivalent biplane will be much lighter . If the structure is a substantial part of the aircraft 's mass ( this is typical for aerobatic airplanes ) , the result can easily be less induced drag , despite the lower span , and also lower wing loading . This in turn means that both fly at different speeds : The biplane will be able to fly much slower , but the aerodynamic drag of the bracing will restrict it to low speeds . This also means inertial effects are less pronounced : The lower mass and lower speed of the biplane combine for a marked difference to the equivalent monoplane . For aerobatic displays this is ideal : All action takes place close to the audience , and the biplane will need a much smaller area for all maneuvers than an equivalent , but heavier monoplane . The downside are low maximum speed and low range . Another difference in performance are much shorter take-off and landing distances due to the lower wing loading , which results in a lower stall speed . The optimum endurance and optimum range speeds are lower than those of an equivalent monoplane as well , so all biplane flying happens at lower speeds , which is beneficial for training aircraft . Since control forces are proportional to dynamic pressure , a biplane will have lower control forces than an equivalent monoplane . Here equivalence also means that the relative chord of all control surfaces is the same . In reality , a good designer will select a higher relative chord for the biplane 's control surfaces to ensure that control forces are above their required minimum . The heavy , unreliable engines of the early years made biplanes the ideal way of taking to the air . Once engines became more powerful and allowed higher payloads , the monoplane became better suited to carrying passengers and freight at higher speeds and over longer distances .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
In case of a total electrical failure , the aircraft can still be controlled using rudder pedals and manual pitch trim . The airbus EFCS ( Electronic flight control systems ) are configured as below : <URL> Airbus EFCS ; Image from <URL> From <URL> : MECHANICAL BACKUP In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . Both controls require hydraulic power . The A340 also seems to have a similar system . From the <URL> : Mechanical back-up • To sustain the aircraft during a temporary complete loss of electrical power . • Longitudinal control of the aircraft through trim wheel . Elevators kept at zero deflection . • Lateral control from pedals . Roll damping is provided by the Back up Yaw Damper Unit ( BYDU ) . <URL> A340 mechanical Backup system ; image from <URL> Note that this is given only as a temporary measure . Also , See <URL> and <URL>
According to the <URL> ( 2 ) Private aircraft . The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP , pursuant to § 122.22 . Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22 ( a ) , from a foreign port or place , the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport . This only matters if you are inbound from an out of country origin . An LRA airport is Landing rights airport . A landing rights airport is any airport , other than an international airport or user fee airport , at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land .
Before I comment I have to ask your training habit : Do you fly one lesson each week , or only occasional lessons because you 're so busy , or 3 flying days each week , or full time ? Sometimes life gets in the way In terms of progress , 70 hours and just starting cross country flights seems to be on the slow side . But then , if you 're not training regularly , you ca n't blame the CFI for spending some time reviewing previous materials during each lesson . Ideally , the flight lesson pre-flight should go like this : CFI : Today we will be practicing steep turns . We will takeoff , head North to this area on the chart and practice there . Then we will fly North East and proceed to this airfield to practice some touch and go . Our weather report says there is weather system South of us , we need to keep an eye on it in case it moves North . I will work on the radios and navigate , you will be doing all the flying . Questions ? This establishes clear goals of the lesson . A good lesson should also conclude with a post-flight debriefing : CFI : Today I noticed that you did not enter the traffic pattern correctly . You entered like this , which is not good because of that , that , and that . Given the situation , you should have went like this . We will be practicing more traffic patterns in our next lesson . If the agenda is driven by the instructor instead , you 'll get more benefits : The goals of the lessons are clear . The instructor can adjust lessons based on your weakness . For example , if you were rather sluggish during engine-out emergencies , the CFI should review emergency procedures with you on the ground and give you more practice in the air . You may not be aware that you are not getting enough practice in some areas . You can prepare for the next lesson ahead . For example , if your next lesson is a cross country , you can review flight planning , navigation principles &amp; airspace regulations . Is your situation normal ? I 'm not an instructor so I do n't know , but it can be better . Then again , if your flying schedule is rather random , learning efficiency would be lower , and you end up spending more flying time and money . Now , falling asleep ... . To me , this is a big No No . I am just a student . I have not been certified ( yet ) that I can operate an airplane safely : What if I make a navigation error and end up heading to Area 51 ? What if I 'm heading into IMC and need to turn around ? What if the fuel level is reducing at a dangerous rate but I did n't notice ? What if I got a stuck elevator ? A flight instructor is seated in the same cockpit with the student to correct mistakes or react to situations in a timely manner . To fall asleep during a flight lesson is an irresponsible behavior to the student and other people on the ground who might get hurt if your plane crashes . Of course , flight instructors are all humans and we all tend to make mistakes . Perhaps he was overstretching himself . Perhaps he got a family emergency the night before and stayed up really late . If it was just one flight , I would pass but keep an eye on . If it happens continuously , it might be a good time to turn away and look somewhere else while you 're still safe .
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
You report unable , and ATC will come up with a different plan . To provide some context : If I ask you to expedite a vertical manoeuvre , it is probably because you are on crossing tracks with another aircraft , and I want you to pass them either above or below . This could be to meet certain level restrictions , or simply because I want to provide you with continuous climb/descend as a service . At your current rate , you will probably pass them , bot not quite with the 1000 ft vertical separation I need . Because you are so close to fitting into my plan , asking you to expedite is the easiest - it requires the least effort from me , and I wo n't have to vector you around , giving you a longer than needed flight path . If you respond with unable , I have other options to choose from , depending on the situation . Typically I would either instruct you to level off or turn . If you are descending through FL160 and I wanted you to go below someone at FL130 , I would simply instruct you to level off at FL140 , and then descend you further when you are clear , which would only take a few minutes . I could use the phrase " Stop descend FL140 , expect further descend in 3 minutes " , in which case you could adjust your vertical rate so that you reach FL140 about 3 minutes in the future , resulting in a smooth descend . Alternatively , a turn of 20-30 degrees is often enough to establish lateral separation , which then allows you to descend unrestricted . 3 or 4 minutes later , when you have passed the other traffic , you will be turned back on your track . The key thing here is communication . As an air traffic controller , when I instruct you to do something , do n't think that I do n't have backup plans . We are taught to always evaluate situations thoroughly , and come up with 2-3 different solutions to every problem or situation we face . I will start by presenting the easiest solution to you , but if that does n't work for you , please do n't be afraid of informing me - I will then simply choose another solution , and adjust my plan accordingly . And remember , air traffic control is a service . We are here to make your life easier - not the other way around . You can help us doing so by communicating clearly and in due time .
There are numerous methods for air-to-ground communications . I may be missing a few , but off the top of my head , here are the ones I can remember : normal VHF comms Operational staff at the airport maintain an operations frequency that you can use just as you would would ATC . The limiting factor here is the requirement of line-of-sight with the ground antenna and this limits range . We could normally raise ops about 30-40 minutes out , at altitude , if someone was actually listening . This is similar to a GA pilot calling unicom to arrange ground services . This method is also used for maintenance at some stations and for talking to fuelers and deicing operators . <URL> This is a selective calling protocol that operates over HF and VHF frequencies . Each participating airplane and ground station ( typically a dispatcher or ATC ) has a code and if you know the code you want to communicate with , you can establish two-way communications with them . To use this in the air required tuning a specific frequency and using a hand-mic with a keypad to dial the ground station code . On the ground I 'm not sure the exact method they use ( phone patch ? ) but when they called us we 'd get an aural " SELCAL " announced by the airplane along with a light to alert us . <URL> This service provides VHF-to-PSTN patches and allows you to call your dispatchers actual phone , medlink , or anyone with a phone you feel like calling . This worked by calling an operator over the normal radios and having them dial a number and connecting us together . Satellite phone Works just like any other satellite phone and use the Iridium network . <URL> This works just like text messaging . Select your recipient , type a message and hit send . You get alerts when messages arrive . The interface I 'm familiar with in the airplane is a program in the FMS with limited pre-set recipients you could contact ( dispatch and perhaps a few others ) . The ACARS software can also be setup to send specific messages to specific stations , e.g. an " In-Range " message which is routed to operations at your destination . From the ground side , this is usually baked into the dispatch flight-following software . Our dispatchers could right click on an airplane , get a menu , pick " text message " and type a message that would be sent to that airplane .
Display of ownship 's position has a very strong effect on the mental model that the pilot has of it 's navigation . When the EFB displayed position is wrong , the change that the pilot will detect that by comparing to other instruments or outside visual are very limited . This is a safety concern . To have the EFB approved to display ownship 's position , the most straightforward way would have been to certify it under TSO C129a " Airborne Supplemental Navigation Equipment using the Global Positioning System ( GPS ) " TSO-C129a has now been superseded by TSO-C196 which has slightly different requirements . Often class I or class II EFB will have a GPS receiver that technically could be used as the source of ownship 's position . The GPS receivers chips used in are not designed and certified against the " Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Airborne Supplemental Navigation Equipment Using Global Positioning System ( GPS ) " ( RTCA document DO-208 ) , which is a requirement of TSO-C129a or " Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Global Positioning System/Aircraft Base Augmentation System " ( RTCA document DO-316 ) which is a requirement for TSO-C196 . The major technical difference between simple commercially available GPS chips and aviation grade GPS chips is that the latter include a Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) function which does Fault Detection ( and Exclusion ) . If a GPS satellite would drift out of it 's orbit or GPS data gets corrupted in the receiver , an ordinary GPS chip would most likely display a position error , while an aviation GPS chip would either indicate a failure state ( fault detection ) or still display the correct position ( fault exclusion ) . This protects the pilot from being mislead by a map shift .
This depends on the airline , but to answer your question : Yes , some airlines do have electrical outlets in the cabin . It seems that since the FAA relaxed the rules on portable devices that the airlines are seeing the need to add them to more of their fleet . For example : US Airways has a <URL> which tells which of their aircraft have outlets . There are some in both coach and first class . United has an <URL> whichs shows that a lot of their fleet has electrical outlets and more are coming . There are different types of outlets , and some of them require an adapter to use while others do n't .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
I 'm no expert , but I can think of two general reasons : risk of incapacitation , and general physical limitations ( reaction speed , stamina , the ability to maintain concentration for extended periods etc. ) . The age 65 limit only applies to part 121 ATP pilots , by the way ; you can still be a commercial or private pilot for as long as you can keep getting a valid medical . Older people are simply at <URL> and many other medical conditions , and they 're also much more likely to require medication that may not be approved by the FAA or other national authorities . Of course that does n't mean that every older pilot is the same but I guess that the FAA has decided that since the risks increase with age , at some point they become unacceptable . To understand the specific reasons for that decision you would probably need to dig up the original <URL> or transcripts of the public debate/hearings , but I have no idea if that 's possible or not . Then the other aspect is general physical and mental condition . They both deteriorate with age , and the NTSB sometimes <URL> as a potential factor in accidents : On the day of the accident , the pilot had flown several formation sorties . The day was hot , and the formation activities were demanding . The accident flight was relatively long , and the co-owner of the airplane guessed it was about 45 minutes long . Most formation sorties were 30 minutes or less . The accident pilot was in his early 70s and was by far the oldest member of the flight . Due to the pilot 's age , the demanding schedule , and the length of the formation sorties , fatigue could have been a factor , although it could not be conclusively determined . Of course , any discussion like this is a generalization and I 'm sure it 's easy to find individual 70-year old pilots or controllers who are ' sharper ' than younger ones ( after all , experience counts for a lot too ) . But there 's no escaping the overall pattern that older people in general are more prone to medical issues and less physically/mentally capable than younger ones , and at least one US court <URL> that there 's no effective way to determine individual risk so a general rule is not discriminatory : The court also concluded that ExxonMobil had established , through the testimony of several medical experts , that the risk of sudden incapacitation in flight significantly increased with age , and that there are no adequate means of individually testing each pilot to determine whether a pilot was at risk to suffer such an incapacitation .
The two things are completely different and exist for different reasons : Fan and turbine blades are mounted loosely , so they can self-balance . This is because at the very high RPM fans and turbines spin at they are extremely sensitive to imbalance . On the other hand , the self-balancing only works at high RPM . It also requires the blades to be connected at the tips with the " shroud " . Rotors have lead-lag hinges because the rotor spins parallel to the flow so in forward flight the advancing blade meets the air at significantly higher speed than the retreating blade . Propellers spin slower , so they are not as sensitive to imbalance , and they do n't have the shroud , so they ca n't be mounted loosely anyway . They spin perpendicular to the airflow , so all blades meet the air at similar speed and angle of attack , so they do n't need to deal with as big differences in the aerodynamic forces . And they are smaller and more rigid .
RTCA documents are not FAA documents , although the FAA is usually a member of the Special Committee that creates the documents . If an example is to be added , it is the decision of the SC , not of the FAA . The reason that no examples are given is that the recommendation is clear by itself . A good V&amp;V engineer will read this recommendation and use his skill , experience and creativity to find an other acceptable means to validate the software requirements that can not be validated in a realistic environment . This alternative means is then documented in the SVP . Giving an example is not helpful at all , since the solution will depend completely on the software under test and the nature of the requirements . If the hardware is not available , an emulator may be the solution . In other cases artificial test inputs have to be generated , because failing a test in a realistic environment may prove to be catastrophic .
Small planes tend to have keys , but not all . The bigger the plane the less likely a key is needed and once you get into jets , I ca n't think of any that need keys for engine starts . The starting and securing of engines with no keys comes down to switches and knobs . Likewise with exterior doors , on smaller planes including private end executive jets , you can find keyed exterior doors and luggage compartments . With transport jets at airlines you wo n't find keys . To secure those doors the jet bridge is pulled away from the airplane so there is no physical access to the boarding door .
Aerodynamically , you want the aspect ratio to be as high as it can be ( for a given wing area ) . You want infinite wingspan , because that results in no induced drag . But that is not very practical at airports , and a bit heavy . Structurally , you want short stubby wings because they have a very low bending moment . In fact structurally , you want zero wing span . But that is not very practical at take-off time . As always , aerodynamic desirability implies structural objections , and vice versa . The aerodynamicists need to strike a deal with the structures engineers : a balance needs to be found . As long a wing span as possible , with as thick a profile as possible , using a material that is as light as possible . So a long wingspan is desirable and is only limited by structural constraints : as you say , at a certain point the longer wing span 's increased weight will offset any aerodynamic advantages . In aluminium , the optimum was reached over the course of a few decades . But now there is a new material with a better strength/weight ratio : composite carbon fibre . Carbon is much stronger than aluminium , and it is woven in a matrix of resin , with most wires running in the direction of highest stress . With carbon fibre , even the direction of material strength can be optimised . And the B787 and A350 have even higher aspect ratios than the B777 .
It is a turbo charged piston aircraft ( much like turbo charged car , the engine is somewhat similar to that <URL> ( think <URL> ) ) . <URL> is generally short for Turbine-Propeller which is a propeller aircraft powered by a turbine engine . Turbo charged piston aircraft are piston driven engines with a turbo charger , many often may carry the T or TC designation after the model number . Such as the <URL> or <URL> In this case we can reference the <URL> Airframe &amp; Powerplant <URL> 315 HP Turbocharged Engine
The magic regulation for minimum equipment on a balloon ( in the USA ) is <URL> . The FAA requires that balloons be equipped with : For all balloons [ Reserved ] An altimeter . A rate of climb indicator . For hot air balloons ( additional equipment ) : A fuel quantity gauge . An envelope temperature indicator . For captive gas balloons ( additional equipment ) : A compass . Beyond what 's required by regulation , in most free balloon operations I 've seen they also carry an aviation radio and/or a CB radio ( to communicate with their ground crew ) - this is usually a handheld transceiver . <URL> also makes for interesting reading . They talk about required and optional instruments and equipment found on various types of balloons in Chapter 2 .
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
end question
start question
Was a 7300-mile non-stop flight possible in 1979 ?
Even for zero payload , no B707 model is able to fly more than 6000nmi ( 11111km ) . B727 even has less range . However , Iranair planned to run Tehran-LAX flight , which length is 12222km , but never materialized because of 1979 revolution . The flight could have been operated by the 747SP ( introduced in 1976 ) , similar to their Tehran-JFK route . <URL> <URL>
The biggest problem is that thrust reversers take time to move . During that time they are still producing reverse thrust ( even if only at idle ) and slowing you down . They must all completely close before you get forward thrust and can add power to start accelerating again . Then , what happens if they do n't stow , or only part of them stow ? Now you 've used up valuable runway that could have been used to stop ( or at least slow down more ) and are no longer in a position to takeoff from . The consequences can be pretty severe .
It would appear that the aircraft you flew was D-AGWR , a A319 with MSN ( Manufacturer Serial Number ) 4285 delivered in April 2010 ( hence fairly new ) . There is a switch at the bottom of the overhead panel , next to the seat belt sign , slightly right of the middle . Flip it and they will extinguish . The functionality is a bit more complicated than it would appear , since it feeds into the central aircraft electronics . <URL> <URL> Out of interest , this button no longer exists on the Boeing B787 , suggesting that it is on the way out . Only the seat belt option remains . The slots for no smoking are being increasingly ' redeveloped ' into a sign for electronic devices instead on some types . They just put a no smoking sticker on the seat in front of you to fulfil the same function . I do not know if they cockpit text has been modified on the aircraft that undergo this modification . <URL>
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
During that time , the in-flight entertainment mostly available on flights was radio1 and/or TVs . Although it was not on all flights . Oops , that is true even today . The radios may or may not have channels . If they had , there was a knob on the armrest , next to headset jacks , to switch channels . The headsets were pneumatic units like this : The in-flight movies were shown using one or more common CRT TVs mounted on ceilings or walls and audio could be heard using the headsets . The <URL> was in 1962 by <URL> . It was more like the picture below but instead of LCD monitors , there were CRTs . In mid-seventies , <URL> was the first airline to offer <URL> . By 1979 , electronic headsets replaced their pneumatic counterparts , which improved audio quality . Wikipedia has a <URL> about the history of in-flight entertainment : In 1971 , TRANSCOM developed the 8mm film cassette . Flight attendants could now change movies in-flight and add short subject programming . In the late 1970s and early 1980s , CRT-based projectors began to appear on newer widebody aircraft , such as the Boeing 767 . <URL> has nice slideshow about the history . 1 : Not actually a radio , but recorded audio
The current QNH at an airport is included in METARs so you can grab it form there . There are a few online services to retrieve the METAR automatically , such as <URL> ( using Vienna airport as an example ) . The latest METAR when I wrote this answer was : which shows a QNH of 1012 . Note that depending on the country the format may vary slightly , but in Austria ( and European countries ) you should always find a value in the report .
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
A GPS needs a line of sight to ( at least ) 4 satellites in order to compute a position . Given that you were able to get a position during the cruise , I assume that you were close to a window and had a clear view of a part of the sky . During the cruise , the aircraft trajectory was close to a straight line ( or changing slowly ) , so your receiver was able to keep a line of sight to the same set of satellites . But during the approach , the trajectory was much more dynamic ( lots of turns ) , so your receiver did n't had a constant line of sight toward the same set of satellites and " lost " them . It takes time for a receiver to " lock " on the signal of a given satellite , so the receiver it could n't compute a position from other satellites because they were not in sight long enough .
Summary No . The aspects that are talked about now are not the ones talked about then . My ( hazy ) recollection is of concerns that the A320 lacked a system of cables and pulleys of the sort used by the Wright brothers . Perhaps pilots of the time had more focused concerns but I do n't recall them making the front pages of newspapers . In the 1980s there was discussion of Airbus flight control systems but the discussion focused on factors that were not involved in the most notable A320 crashes in the late '80s and early 90 's . Several Airbus accidents seem to be at least partly the result of pilots lack of familiarity with sophisticated aircraft systems in general rather than with features that are not found in other aircraft . The Airbus control system The main innovations by Airbus were the application to civil airliners of designs that had previously only been used on other types of aircraft . Fly by wire . No mechanical cables , pulleys and associated friction . Sidesticks . To provide clearer view of displays and greater pilot comfort . Flight envelope protection . To prevent excessive inputs stalling or damaging the airframe . Transfer of control Airbus spent some time comparing and investigating support for transfer of control between pilots , including in emergency situations . They investigated pilot preferences for several approaches to this . They revisited this aspect over the years and it has become a point of focus since the AF447 report . However it does n't seem to have been a particular point of controversy in 1987 . Perhaps few people in the 1980s fully realized the extent to which pilots can operate independently and antagonistically in severe emergencies and the degree to which teamwork and communication disappears . There were multiple severe accidents briefly after the entry into service of the A320 You mean these : 26 June 1988 , <URL> . Pilots flew aircraft into trees during unrehearsed demonstration flight at unfamiliar aerodrome after mistaking trees for grass on approach . 14 February 1990 <URL> . Idle/open descent mode engaged and pilots failed to act as aircraft descended into terrain near airport . 20 January 1992 <URL> . Aircraft flown into terrain after autopilot incorrectly put into vertical speed mode and entered numbers appropriate for flight-angle mode . Air Inter had chosen not to equip aircraft with ground proximity warning system . The total number of hull-loss accidents for the 320 does n't seem high compared to other aircraft , but it 's hard to compare the numbers if you do n't take into account fleet size , cycles flown etc. . the A320 seems to have a very aggressive manipulation of the aircraft controls I 'm not sure what you mean by " aggressive manipulation " but that seems an extreme view . The Airbus systems are a progressive development of existing trends . The accidents were largely the result of pilots setting inappropriate modes in systems like the autopilot . The accidents apparently did n't arise because of , for example , the way the control sticks operate . Was there ever any questioning of the Airbus augmented control prior to the introduction to service ? By " augmented control " I guess you mean features like the flight envelope protection that prevents pilot inputs from overloading the airframe . That does n't seem to have been controversial . The only controversy was over two items that had been used in military aircraft but not in commercial passenger aircraft fly by wire sidesticks These do n't seem to have been a large factor in the specific accidents mentioned above . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Airline food is usually <URL> and loaded on the aircraft , where it is reheated and served . In some cases , the food is half-prepared on ground and completed in air ( in onboard ovens ) . However , in some cases ( Emirate Airlines , for example ) business class customers can have ( some type of ) food prepared in-flight .
Engine thrust is measured in flight by EPR - Engine Pressure Ratio . EPR is the ratio of the turbine exhaust pressure divided by the pressure measured at the fan or inlet . Indeed this is the measure used for a number of engines for setting thrust . More detailed airborne testing of engines is done during development , most manufacturers have airborne testbeds . The parameters recorded here probably measure in the hundreds or even thousands ...
Anyone who has ever flown at Zar ( EPZR ) in Poland knows how much a runway slope can reduce the needed field length . For aircraft which need a 2 miles long level runway , a 1 mile long one with a 15 % slope at its end will do just fine . Make the slope shallow at the bottom and increase it the further up the runway goes , just like the hillside runway at Zar . If the end point is 183.5 m higher than the touch-down point , the height difference is equivalent to a speed reduction from 60 m/s to zero . Take-offs work in the opposite way , giving the same speed boost on the way down . A 1 mile long runway will do just fine . You do not even need to run it diagonally across the island . Yes , this does not exactly answer the riddle , but is an engineering solution to a simple problem .
Nothing in the regulations seems to preclude it - but there are <URL> per the FAA : An individual who is a United States citizen , A partnership each of whose partners is an individual who is a U.S. citizen , A corporation or association : organized under the laws of the U.S. or a State , the District of Columbia , or a U.S. territory or possession , of which the president and at least two-thirds of the board of directors and other managing officers are U.S citizens , and in which at least 75 % of the voting interest is owned or controlled by persons that are U.S. citizens , An individual citizen of a foreign country lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S. , A U.S. governmental unit or subdivision A non-U.S. citizen corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the U.S. or one of the States as long as the aircraft is based and primarily used in the U.S. ( 60 % of all flight hours must be from flights starting and ending within the U.S. ) ( emphasis added ) So Toyota could not buy an aircraft and register it to their main company in Japan on the US registry , nor could they buy &amp; register it under a US Subsidiary and subsequently fly it off to Japan to live out the rest of its days shuttling executives around Asia . A Toyota executive with Permanent Resident status could buy themselves a nice Cirrus and register it on the US Registry though .
An airplane can slow down and reduce its speed while in flight . The easiest way to do so is to reduce the amount of thrust that the engines are producing . This will produce an almost immediate reduction of the airspeed , especially if the plane is maintaining the same altitude . There are also devices called <URL> and <URL> that can be further used to reduce speed . These , however , are never1 used in normal , level flight by passenger2 aircraft and are normally only used to reduce speed during the descent and landing phases of the aircraft3 . If an airplane reduces its speed too much , it will of course stall and start dropping precipitously , at which time the airspeed usually also increases again . The slowest speed an aircraft can maintain at a given altitude without stalling is listed in its <URL> However in the scenario you mentioned ( obstacles ahead ) , it 's usually easiest to simply fly around the obstacle . 1 : <URL> 2 : The situation is different in military aircrafts , you can see the approaching Su-27 using its airbrake in <URL> 3 : The wheels of most aircraft also have brakes , similar to those found on automobiles . Obviously these can only be used when the plane is touching the ground . Lowering retracted landing gear will also increase drag . There are also <URL> on some aircraft that are used in the final stages of landing . Use of thrust reversers during flight can be <URL> although some older aircraft ( including the C-17A ) were designed to use thrust reversal to scrub speed in-flight . Finally , some gliders and larger aircraft have <URL> to help slow them down , for example for use on short runways .
I 'd advise against " flying around aimlessly " . Even if it is a simple , routine flight between two nearby airports , fly it fully , and try to fly it as professionally as possible ( can you keep your heading to within + / - 3 degrees ? can you keep your altitude spot-on ? ) Another good exercise is to do all your navigation planning in detail ( each heading for a certain number of minutes ) , then try to take off , and using nothing but the compass and stopwatch , find out how close you get . ( and when you end up off-course , figure out where you went wrong ! )
Ground vehicles are really problematic at an airport . The problem is not so much a matter of regulation as a problem that the people driving the vehicles sometimes are unfamiliar with flight processes so they create hazards without really understanding the danger they are creating . The " regulations " are that nobody is supposed to be on taxiways or runways without approval whatever that means , but since the FAA can not revoke the license of somebody that does not have a license , it 's a toothless rule . Also , the typical runway intruder does not even have a radio , so getting approval is problematic for them . Cops are the worst offenders . I have seen some very dangerous situations evolve from ignorant cops with no idea what they are doing just driving onto runways acting like they are god or something . The main way the FAA interfaces to the ground control problem is to <URL> hoping that somebody will read them . Some airports have elaborate safety training for ground personnel , but the main risks usually come from untrained personnel at smaller airports where there is little or no training . This is one of the main reasons why most airports work hard to get good fencing set up , so some bozo does not drive onto the runway . In general , ground control takes care of authorizing vehicle movement and utility trucks are supposed to coordinate their actions with ground control . In untowered airports , utility trucks are supposed to call on CTAF to notify nearby pilots what they are doing , but unfortunately most do not have radios . Once I was landing and there was some truck on the side of the runway because the guy was removing a turtle or something . The truck had flashing lights so it was easy to see luckily .
As long as you remain VFR then the equipment requirements for the airplane and the flight are VFR . § 61.57 says " Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device ... " . It does n't say anything about having an IFR certified airplane or having a current pitot/static and altimeter check . If you are maintaining SEL IFR currency , then all you need is a SEL airplane . MEL IFR , then a multi-engine plane , etc. . And if you are missing some of the 6-pack instruments , all the better for practicing partial panel .
Here 's another article from Oct 15th . They <URL> . As of the 15th , it was n't clear yet if this engine will be connected and running during the flight , or if it 'll just be there to complete the airframe and act as a counterweight . Leaving the broken engine in place would do more damage to the engine , complicating the investigation . Pieces breaking off from the engine may have damaged the wing , the pylon or the connectors on the pylon ( power , fuel , electronics etc. ) , they need to inspect for damage before deciding if the spare engine can be connected and running . The plane will be empty for the recovery flight , so there 's some margin to fly on 3 engines . They have to account for the possibility of an engine failure , leaving 2 operational engines , so the flight is planned to ETOPS rules . It seems <URL> is to take off with 2 engines at full power and the third at idle , to reduce the effects of asymmetric thrust . If the engine is left off and windmilling , it needs lubrication , this may limit the length of the flight .
What was the first airplane fitted with hydraulic system ? / Where was it used ? If we exclude hydraulic disk brake systems . <URL> <URL> What are the fundamental differences between the first systems and those that are used now ? Depending on how you look at it , little . Hydraulics are hydraulics . The systems have gotten more powerful but that may be related to the available power to drive the pumps . We arguably have gotten better at building them and they are perhaps more reliable but they are still more or less the same in operation .
It 's not easy finding out which aircraft rolled-out with the first standard CVR/FDR combination . In fact it 's so hard Google thought I was a robot , maybe I am . Here 's why , first this piece : 16 July 1964 COCKPIT voice recorders that will record all flight-deck conversations between the crew and ground control will be required in large passenger aircraft under new rules issued by the Federal Aviation Agency . Designed to assist in accident investigation and prevention , approved cockpit voice recorders will be required by July 1 , 1966 , in jets and turboprops weighing more than 12,500 lb . Pressurized four-engine piston aircraft will have to meet the requirement by January 1 , 1967 . The installation of cockpit voice recorders supplements the existing requirement for critical-data flight recorders on similar aircraft . The latter , says the FAA , have been found indispensable in helping investigators determine probable accident causes , thus aiding development of ways to prevent accidents . FDR 's preceded CVR 's and were already standard equipment on jets and turboprops weighing more than 12,500 lb . Then came the above CVR mandate to take effect by July 1966 . But , the CVR was not a new invention , and was already fitted to many aircraft , in fact , five months before the above piece we find this : 6 February 1964 Trans Canada Airlines has taken a world lead by announcing that it will spend \ $ 1,360,000 to equip all its 78 aircraft with maintenance recording equipment . The airline has been investigating the use of the Royston Midas system for more than a year and last October took the decision to equip its fleet . Final details of the actual installations are now being decided , preparatory to placing a firm order , some additional steps having been taken as a result of the DC-8 accident at Montreal last November . TCA are to have a 93-channel system covering engines , movable surfaces , hydraulic and electrical systems and 15min of cockpit voice , installed in a safe location in the tail of its DC-8 , DC-8F , Vanguard and Viscount aircraft . The installation will cost \ $ 20,000 for each of the larger aircraft and \ $ 15,000 for each Viscount and will be performed at Montreal and Winnipeg . Next airline to place a major order for Midas may well be TWA , who have been conducting a systematic and successful investigation of its application for some time . The RAF first equipped one Britannia of Transport Command and has now ordered five recorder systems and four complete playback installations , presaging much more extensive adoption . British United Airways have also been flying a Midas-equipped Britannia for some six months . Trans Canada Airlines being the first to equip a CVR/FDR / <URL> combo well before the FAA mandate . The CVR being an Australian invention , some sources say CVR 's were required in Australia before the US , but given how many aircraft manufacturers were there in the mid-60 's , it 's impossible to know which one was the first . No one was eager to market their know-why-you-crashed plane . Most articles I found from the 60 's were CVR manufacturers promoting their new products , but no aircraft manufacturer mentioning them . Example below : <URL> I 'm happy to take down this answer if someone else finds a definitive first . Source used : <URL>
end question
start question
Would it be more effective to increase the length or chord of a rotor blade for better performance ?
It 's not so easy . The blade length , chord and engine power are connected in complex ways , and for each desired performance there is an optimal combination of those parameters . Rotors ( and wings ) generate lift by accelerating air downwards . The lift is proportional to the rate of change of inertia of the air . This , however , also changes kinetic energy of the air and therefore requires power . This is called induced drag . Since inertia is proportional to velocity , but kinetic energy is proportional to the square of velocity , it is more efficient to accelerate a larger amount of air to a lower speed . The amount of air affected is proportional to the area of the rotor disk ( the whole area in which the blades move ) and that is simply ( $ \ pi \ times $ ) square of blade length . So in a sense the answer is easy : only blade length has effect , blade chord does not . However , increasing the blade length also increases the form and skin drag of the blades , so beyond some point the form drag will exceed the induced drag and any additional increase in blade length wo n't improve efficiency further . Even more importantly , a longer blade will be heavier and therefore will have to be stronger to withstand the centrifugal force when turning , and stiffer so it does not bend too much when not . But that will make it even heavier and you 'll reach a point where you simply exceed the capabilities of the material . And of course higher weight also means more lift is required . These effects will further reduce the optimal length of the blades . The blade chord is then a secondary parameter governed by two concerns : the chord has to be long enough so the blades can generate the necessary lift without stalling and they have to be strong enough , strength being proportional to chord times thickness . So if you want to improve load , you can try to improve efficiency , which you could do by making the blades longer , but you need to find a material with higher specific strength , otherwise the increased weight will outweigh the improved aerodynamic efficiency . If you do n't have that , you will primarily have to increase power of the engines . The optimal blade length may then be longer too , but you will be hitting the limits of the material quickly ; that 's why there are multi-rotor helicopters . If you instead meant speed , that 's a completely different issue and neither blade length nor chord play a significant role there . In forward motion , the speed of a helicopter is limited by two constraints : sufficient portion of the retreating blade has to move aft relative to the airflow and the tip of advancing blade must not exceed speed of sound ( actually , critical Mach number , which is somewhat lower ) . The first requirement means the tip speed must be around three times higher than the maximum forward speed , otherwise the retreating side of the rotor wo n't be able to generate enough lift and the aircraft will roll to that side . Together with the second parameter , it limits the speed to about a quarter of the critical Mach . There are some experimental twin rotor ( intermeshing , side-by-side ) helicopters that do n't mind the lift asymmetry and can fly somewhat faster . But it has nothing to do with blade length ; blades of larger rotor spin at lower rpm to maintain similar tip speed .
It is not " this causes that " - all is happening together . Let me explain : For me to understand aerodynamics , it helped to disregard all that talk of vortices and induction , but focus on the pressure field around a wing . When the theory of flight was developed , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that electric induction could be transferred to lift . Now every author still copies the explanations from a century ago , but they are totally unintuitive . Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects . Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they experience . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour , but not without spreading out ( = pressure loss ) . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . What is lift ? Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Induced drag The misconception about those " wingtip vortices " and induced drag is hard to eradicate . Most authors copy what has been written before without clearly understanding the issue . Therefore I repeat it here again : <URL> is the <URL> of the <URL> . The vortices are only a consequence of downwash , which in turn is a consequence of lift creation . At the same speed , more induced drag is indeed linked to more lift , but the causality is different : Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
Good thought , and it does happen . Tilt the jet exhaust or propeller downwards at a shallow angle $ \ phi $ , and there is lift created at sin $ \ phi $ while thrust is reduced by cos $ \ phi $ . If we take small angles , let 's say 3 degrees : $ \ Delta L$ = T $ \ cdot $ sin ( 3 ° ) = 0.052 T $ \ Delta T$ = T $ \ cdot $ cos ( 3 ° ) = 0.9986 T So 5.2 % of engine thrust is converted into lift , for a loss of 0.14 % of horizontal thrust . Free lift ! Slight angles like this are found in aircraft installations , for instance in tail mounted jet engines which are angled horizontally to reduce yawing angle with a failed engine . With engines mounted underneath the wing , the downwards pointed thrust would help a tiny bit in lift and reduce the take-off length . As @mins points out , with tail mounted engines the nose down pitching moment may counteract the lift benefits . <URL>
It 's different for everyone , but I 'd expect stress/anxiety to be a contributing factor for many , which is an ultimately self-defeating cycle ; if you " know " you 're going to get sick , you 'll be anxious about that , and that 'll make you sick . The trigger for me is inadequate ventilation . I 'm fortunate enough to rarely get motion sickness , but when it does happen it 's usually because I 'm in a hot , still cabin without a good source of fresh air .
CNN has applied for and received multiple waivers for <URL> as allowed by <URL> . <URL> -- This allows " Small unmanned aircraft system ( sUAS ) operations over human beings in accordance with the CNN UAS Operations Manual , Fotokite Pro 1 Operator Guide , and Fotokite Pro 1 Specifications Sheet . " It allows operation " over private or controlled-access property with permission from a person with legal authority to grant access " and prohibits operations over open-air assemblies of people . <URL> -- This allows operations " conducted over human beings for the purpose of closed-set motion picture and television filming " . Make and model of sUAS not specified , but all operations must comply with the operator 's manual . <URL> -- This waiver is granted for the Vantage Robotics Snap only , and allows " operations over all human beings ( including Nonparticipants ) " . It also limits the altitude when operated over people to 150 feet AGL , as opposed to the normal limit of 400 feet AGL . I assume this is the waiver you are interested in . The simple reason why only one particular model of UAS is allowed is that CNN only submitted that model for waiver and no others , and the FAA approved that . This is a somewhat unsatisfying answer , but neither CNN 's nor the FAA 's reasoning is included in the text of the waiver itself . The rest of this answer is speculation on my part . As can be seen on <URL> , the Snap is reasonably lightweight ( 1.37 lbs / 620 g including battery ) , has caged props , and has a high-quality camera . ( The camera is n't a matter of safety , but it is presumably something a cable news provider is interested in . ) If a prop were to fail catastrophically , the cage would hopefully contain at least some of it , thus eliminating risk of a crowd being hit by sharp objects . The height restriction of 150 feet AGL reduces the potential for injury of a nonparticipant should the sUAS fall on them , and the prop cages prevent contact with moving parts . I suspect that CNN applied for a waiver specifically for this model and the FAA approved it based on the following : It 's specific . The more general the application , the more likely it is to be rejected . If you know what you 're working with , you can evaluate all the parameters and come up with a safe solution . If there are more variables , it 's harder to reason about . It has certain safety features as discussed above , which make it more suitable for flight over nonparticipants than some other models . It 's standard . CNN has a single platform to train their over-crowd operators on . Once again , this also has safety benefits , because the operators are extremely familiar with one model of unit , instead of broadly familiar with many different ones . This particular model of sUAS had all the features that CNN wanted and that the FAA was interested in for this application . This may include such factors as weight , safety features , well-written operation and maintenance manual , and ease of maintenance . Additionally CNN may have liked the cost ( the FAA would n't care about that ) . The FAA maintains a list of <URL> .
Let 's do some quick math . Air has a density of about 1.3 g/L and hydrogen has a density of about 0.09 g/L . The best case for lifting force would be storing the hydrogen at the same pressure as the surrounding air . This means that every L of hydrogen can displace 1.21 g of air , reducing the density of the aircraft . The amount of air displaced by the aircraft ( and therefore the <URL> ) would not change , but the density of the aircraft in that space would decrease . This would decrease the lift needed , but let 's see by how much . The greatest amount of free volume in an aircraft ( that is n't part of the pressurized section of the fuselage ) is the fuel tanks . An A380 has a fuel capacity of about 323,000 L . If we consider filling half of that with hydrogen , this would result in a total reduction of about 190 kg . An A380 has a max takeoff weight of 575,000 kg . This change would help but would be very small compared to the total lift needed . As David Richerby points out , <URL> would need to be pressurized ( if not liquified ) to fit enough onboard . This would increase the density above that of any displaced air , which would instead add weight to the aircraft . Perhaps the hydrogen could be produced instead of stored . Newer aircraft do have something called an <URL> , or onboard inert gas generating system . This system generates nitrogen which is used to fill the space in fuel tanks after the fuel is used . Being an inert gas , nitrogen can lower the amount of oxygen in the space below what would be required for ignition of the fuel vapors . However , this system splits nitrogen out of air , considering that our atmosphere is mostly nitrogen . Hydrogen would have to come from somewhere else , usually water , which would add more weight . Another problem with hydrogen is that when added to air <URL> , which would make the situation even worse . Considering the minor benefit , this would not be a system worth installing on an airliner . Regarding the feasibility of a hydrogen powered aircraft , <URL> and decided that this is not a good source of power for an aircraft . <URL> to store even liquid hydrogen would be too much for the aircraft to be very useful .
Dogfight is about energy management . You care less about climbing than about being able to turn your nose and weapons into the right direction as quickly as possible without falling out of the sky . Maximum climb would be required in those scenarios : Fly as efficiently as possible . Flying higher means flying faster and in colder air , so the engines are <URL> . Note that todays airliners climb as fast or faster than fighter aircraft in WW II . Evade ground threats . After delivering its ordnance , an attack aircraft would desire to get away from hostile fire as quickly as possible . Sometimes this is achieved by flying with the <URL> , though . Break off combat : If you know you can climb faster than your opponent , you can choose whether you fight or get away , a luxury the other guy does not have . Intercept : If you were ordered to intercept an unknown aircraft flying high above , maximum climb speed is helpful . If you need to be fast as well , your optimum climb profile is that of <URL> , though . I interpret minimum rate of climb as maximum descent rate . Typical scenarios are : Pressure loss in an airliner , when higher density air should be reached in order to <URL> . Dropping parachutists : If the aircraft lands ahead of the skydivers , it can fly more often and earn more revenue . Extreme case : Dive bombing . Actually , most dive bombers employed air brakes to limit the speed in a dive .
the <URL> is the line stretching from the leading edge of the wing to the trailing edge parallel to the centerline . <URL> There are different variations to describe the chord of the whole wing . The Standard Mean Chord Defined as $ \ frac S b $ with $ S$ the surface area and $ b $ the span of the wing . This is not used in aerodynamics . The Mean Aerodynamic Chord Defined as $ \ frac2 S \ int_0 ^ { \ frac b 2 } c ( y ) ^ 2 dy $ with $ y $ the coordinate along the wing and $ c ( y ) $ the chord at $ y $ . For swept or delta wings this gives the equivalent chord for a rectangular wing , and is important for placing the Center of Gravity for stability .
It is the larger aircraft that came first . Historically , the runway length ( and design ) of an airport has depended on the aircraft operating there ( among other things ) , though this is changing . For example , the <URL> : The main runways -- RWY 04/22 and RWY 13/31 -- were continually lengthened during post WW II operations which kept them in line with the demands of the aviation industry until the mid 1960s ... The runway required for the aircraft depends on the take-off weight and the lesser runway length restricts the payload or range . As a result , for economical operation , the runway needs to be longer . However , there are other constraints to consider : For large aircraft , the runway ( and taxiway ) width , apron and parking space are important considerations . In most cases , lengthening the runway will be easier than taking care of these other constraints . In the end , airports have to weigh the benefits of letting heavier aircraft operate against the resources required for runway lengthening . For major airports ( like Heathrow , for example ) , the cost of runway expansion will run into the billions . Unless the aircraft is going to be operated regularly ( which depends on how many airports it can land ) , there is no point in lengthening the runway in an airport . The economic operation of the aircraft has to be considered . For example , the A380 was designed around a 80m ' box ' , which the airlines had decided is the maximum size they can operate economically . A bigger aircraft does not mean more runway required . For example , the A380 requires ( slightly ) lesser runway compared to 747-400 . If it comes to that , aircraft requiring more runway can takeoff from smaller ones . For example , a Boeing Dreamlifter once <URL> runway ( it normally requires > 9000ft ) . The airports with longest runways have them for different reasons - the Qamdo Bamda Airport ( 5500m runway ) has a long runway due to its elevation ( > 4300m above MSL ) , while the Ramenskoye Airport as a long runway ( 5400m ) due to the aircraft operated there ; it was a test facility , for among other things , the Soviet Buran spacecraft .
The statement is apparently from the <URL> of <URL> at George Mason University . One form of fog that is formed in airports usually is radiation ( or ground ) fog . As the flat open surfaces in airport are prone to cooling overnight due to thermal radiation , the air close to the surface is also cooled to the dew point . This reduces the ability of the air to hold moisture , allowing condensation and fog to occur . One reason for the statement may be that open areas in the airport give up their heat much quicker than urban heat islands , which does not have flat surfaces prone to thermal radiation .
3D printing is unlikely to make anything cheaper in the near future . With current printing technologies it 's an order or magnitude or two more expensive per unit than volume manufacturing techniques such as extrusion or injection moulding . It 's notable that the company you link to chose to make a supercar rather than a low-cost small car . There 's little price competition in that market , as brand loyalty dominates . Most supercars are bought as status symbols or for fun rather than for their actual road performance . Most of the incumbents manufacture very small runs with a lot of hand assembly : exactly the kind of manufacturing that 3D printing is competitive for . On top of that , because of the status symbol marketing , there 's huge room for new players to differentiate based on a green image . Tesla has done this in the last few years , which is why some of DMF 's marketing material focuses on dissing electric cars . Runs are small in GA too , so there 's potentially a wider niche for these techniques to fit into . The market that would most closely fit IMO is kit aircraft . A kit that 's primarily 3D printed parts joined by standard spars , with a flexible outer shell , could have shorter lead times and less tooling cost . After discussing this with some mechanical engineer colleagues today , they pointed out how 3D printing of metals is now being used as a complement to CNC machining in the rocket industry . For a part that has to be machined from a single piece of metal , they 3D print a shell that 's slightly larger than the required shape , and then machine it to the correct shape . It allows you to achieve the tolerances you get from machining ( which 3D printing ca n't yet deliver ) , but without the waste you get from cutting down a solid block . It 's an aside to the main question , but it 's a way that 3D printing could be used to reduce the cost of some components and allow designs that would have been economically infeasible .
A major disadvantage to that design would be the aft wing had a disrupted airflow over it as it travels through the fwd wing 's wake , so lift is greatly diminished . As to doing a stacked biplane design typical of small sport biplanes in use over the years , this is probably frowned upon for two reasons : High Drag - more structure in the relative wind always means more drag anemic this was one of the major advantages to the cantilevered wing developed in the 1930s . Heavier - more wings means more structure both in terms of the second wing itself plus the mounting structure to mate the wing to the fuselage . A single cantilevered monoplane is by far the most efficient solution save only a flying wing , but these are not commonly used in commercial travel which has been discussed in previous threads . Now that 's not to say a biplane may not be useful for commercial aircraft . <URL> which usea the configuration to dramatically reduce its sonic boom . <URL> Whether this idea survives the CGI proposal and becomes actual hardware is another story ; this business is full of concept aircraft and precious little flyable hardware .
With enough engineering ( read , money ) , all sorts of things would be possible , but if you picture the aircraft in a hard , level turn , the g-forces would be pressing " down " relative to a conventional cockpit , but " sideways " for a cockpit that was gimbaled so the pilot was sitting upright relative to the horizon . And that would probably be a lot harder to take than the usual " down " G-forces . Resisting 9 G 's pulling your hand and forearm straight down can be done with a support for your arm ( side-stick controller ) or a bit of a ledge at the bottom of the handgrip ( side-stick or center stick ) , but keeping precise control of the aircraft with 9 G 's pulling your hand sideways might be a lot harder . Beyond that , the sideways G force would be pushing your head to the side , which probably ends up banging your helmet -- pretty hard sometimes -- against whatever restraint or canopy it meets . Something that achieves some of the goals you mention is the " Virtual Reality " helmet of the F-35 , where the pilot can essentially look through the airframe and " see " aircraft , targets , and whatnot even in places that he would n't have an actual line-of sight . That allows him to look in any direction , reacting to threats , tracking his target , and so forth . And without having to gimbal the cockpit . Although for what the F-35 's cost , that might actually be cheaper !
Yes and Yes ; As long as you are rated for the category , class , and type ( if required ) of the aircraft that you are receiving the training in you could log both PIC and dual received . 14 CFR 61.51 ( e ) ( i ) covers the logging of PIC time ( which is perfectly legal in the scenario that you describe if you are rated in the aircraft ) : <URL> ... ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( i ) When the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated , or has sport pilot privileges for that category and class of aircraft , if the aircraft class rating is appropriate ; Training time is logged per 14 CFR 61.51 ( h ) and you can log that too : ( h ) Logging training time . ( 1 ) A person may log training time when that person receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft , flight simulator , or flight training device . That being said , you may not act as the actual PIC however : <URL> ... ( i ) Additional training required for operating tailwheel airplanes . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( i ) ( 2 ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of a tailwheel airplane unless that person has received and logged flight training from an authorized instructor in a tailwheel airplane and received an endorsement in the person 's logbook from an authorized instructor who found the person proficient in the operation of a tailwheel airplane . The flight training must include at least the following maneuvers and procedures : ... Notice that the regulations governing acting as PIC are different than those governing logging of PIC time . This was done intentionally because there were so many pilots that were hired as SIC 's at airlines with little to no PIC time and flew for years . When it was time for them to upgrade they did n't have enough PIC time even though they had lots of experience and could easily upgrade safely .
You 'll find this info in helicopter performance design literature . The power to drive the rotor ( and a propellor ) can be sub-divided into three parts : useful power , induced power , and profile power . The solidity ratio shows up in the profile power part . Like in aerodynamics , the power/thrust equations are often made dimensionless and evaluated in coefficients . From Helicopter Test and Evaluation by Cooke and Fitzpatrick , section 2.4 : $ C_P = C_T \ left ( \ frac { V_C + v_i } { V_T } \ right ) + \ frac { s \ cdot C_D } { 8 } $ with $ s $ being solidity ratio . So solidity ratio shows up in the profile drag power portion , which makes sense .
Solar Impulse has no flaps and a high aspect ratio wing . Therefore , the c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ of the wing should be no higher than 1.8 , most likely 1.6 . While a rigid airfoil can be designed with a higher c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ , it will not have an attractive L/D and a shorter wing would have a c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ below that of the airfoil . Since no fuel is consumed , mass is constant , which makes it very easy to give a lower bound for the minimum speed . <URL> has 269.5 m ² wing area to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² . If we assume standard day conditions at sea level ( density $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m ³ ) , we find vor v $ _ { min } $ : $ $ v _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c _ { l _ { max } } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } = 9.24 \ ; \ small { \ frac { m } { s } } \ ; \ text { or } \ ; 33.27 \ ; \ small { \ frac { km } { h } } $ $ For those of you from metrically challenged cultures : This is 18 knots or 20.67 mph .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
Forward bending of the first stage of the low pressure compressor is usually associated with ( soft ) Foreign Object Damage ( FOD ) . Ice and/or large quantities of snow in the engine intake will typically cause forward bending of the leading edge of the tip of the blades . <URL> Damage to GE CF680C2 turbine engine compressor fan blades after snow/ice ingestion Source : <URL> <URL> Damage to Turbomeca gas turbine Arriel 2B turbine engine compressor blades after snow/ice ingestion Source : <URL>
Depends on what you build . It is possible to build a helicopter that qualifies as an ultralight , and thus no license needed . If it exceeds the weight and power restrictions for an ultralight , then it is an experimental aircraft , that requires at least a solo ticket . I would strongly suggest that rather than scratch build your own , an experience you might not survive , you take a look at what I 'm currently lusting after : <URL> In kit form ( which technically makes you the builder ) , it can be had in ultralight form , with limited range . Or in experimental form with a more powerful 2 stroke engine and larger fuel capacity . And finally , the ( sigh ) gas turbine powered version . One advantage of building the experimental kit is : as the builder , you can perform all maintenance and the annual inspection yourself . Another advantage of going the more capable experimental route is : you can log the hours .
Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to its initial state after a disturbance . Typical disturbances in case of airplanes are : Flying into a vertical or horizontal gust A jerk on the stick The classic explanation is with a ball sitting in a pit . Whenever its position is changed by a disturbance , it will roll back towards the center . This does not mean that it will stop there - in an ideal world free of friction it will keep moving back and forth like a pendulum . This is static stability . Broadly speaking , static stability is achieved by placing the center of gravity ahead of the neutral point , the point in which all additional forces due to a change in angle of attack can be summarized . There are two neutral points , one for longitudinal stability and one for directional stability . In both cases the change in angle of attack or sideslip will create a correcting moment around the center of gravity , pulling the aircraft back on its old path . Even altitude stability can be achieved , but here we take advantage of the fact that air becomes less dense the higher you climb . If the aircraft is trimmed for horizontal flight at a certain altitude , an altitude change will mean that the power setting does no longer match drag at this new altitude . The aircraft will either climb or sink , depending on the altitude change , until the old altitude has been reached again . In all cases you will experience overshoots and oscillations around the trim point . It can even happen that these overshoots become worse the longer the oscillation lasts ( the <URL> in a glider is a good example ) . To stop the oscillations , you need to add Dynamic stability which describes the behavior of the aircraft over time . In most cases , friction will ensure that motions die down , and sometimes aircraft need little helpers like <URL> to get those under control . You mention stalls and dives : They can indeed occur in a statically stable airplane . Low drag means low damping , therefore many high performance gliders have a dynamically unstable <URL> motion . I know , Wikipedia spells this wrongly , but the explanation is OK , so I linked it nonetheless . If you wait long enough after an initial upset , the oscillations will become so severe that the aircraft stalls at the upmost point of the cycle . If you keep enough altitude and have no traffic nearby , this is fun to try . Spiral dive Note that I omitted to say something about roll stability so far . The glider ( and your Cessna 172 ) will also start to roll , and in many cases the roll motion will increase more quickly than the phygoid , so you might need to try several times before you get a phygoid-induced stall . Most aircraft have a weak tendency to increase roll angle and to eventually fall into a <URL> . There is no aerodynamic mechanism to right the aircraft up after a roll disturbance . Sorry , @kevin , but dihedral wo n't help - it only works in case of sideslip .
end question
start question
What happens in a stall during a slip ?
In order for a spin to develop , you need two things from the airplane : it must be stalled it must be yawing . Since the airplane is not yawing while in a slip ( it is actually flying straight ahead , although uncoordinated ) , the airplane simply wo n't spin . Instead , when the stall occurs the higher wing ( which has the higher angle of attack ) will stall first , the wing will drop , and the wings will tend level . That being said , it is still a stall and can be dangerous at low altitudes . It can also turn into a spin if you leave the rudder applied as the wings level and you come out of the slip ( and into a skid ) . The best protection for all of this is to watch your airspeed and angle of attack to make sure that you always have sufficient airspeed so that you never stall in the first place . Additional Information Since this has generated some debate , here is additional information : Spin According to <URL> ( emphasis added by me ) : Spins can be entered intentionally or unintentionally , from any flight attitude and from practically any airspeed -- all that is required is sufficient yaw rate while an aircraft is stalled . Yaw So this brings us to <URL> : The yaw axis is defined to be perpendicular to the body of the wings with its origin at the center of gravity and directed towards the bottom of the aircraft . A yaw motion is a movement of the nose of the aircraft from side to side . Skid <URL> actually covers this exact scenario : The skid is more dangerous than the slip if the airplane is close to a stall . In the slip , the raised wing -- the left one if the airplane is turning to the right -- will stall before the lowered one , and the airplane will reduce the bank angle , which prevents the stall . In the skid , the lowered wing will stall before the raised one , and the airplane will tighten the turn , and the stall can develop to a spin . Slip <URL> says : A slip is an aerodynamic state where an aircraft is moving somewhat sideways as well as forward relative to the oncoming airflow or relative wind . In other words , for a conventional aircraft , the nose will be pointing in the opposite direction to the bank of the wing ( s ) . The aircraft is not in coordinated flight and therefore is flying inefficiently . Note that the aircraft is moving sideways . The nose of the aircraft is not moving , and it is therefore not yawing . It also says : Often , if an airplane in a slip is made to stall , it displays very little of the yawing tendency that causes a skidding stall to develop into a spin . A stalling airplane in a slip may do little more than tend to roll into a wings level attitude . In fact , in some airplanes stall characteristics may even be improved .
In order for a spin to develop , you need two things from the airplane : it must be stalled it must be yawing . Since the airplane is not yawing while in a slip ( it is actually flying straight ahead , although uncoordinated ) , the airplane simply wo n't spin . Instead , when the stall occurs the higher wing ( which has the higher angle of attack ) will stall first , the wing will drop , and the wings will tend level . That being said , it is still a stall and can be dangerous at low altitudes . It can also turn into a spin if you leave the rudder applied as the wings level and you come out of the slip ( and into a skid ) . The best protection for all of this is to watch your airspeed and angle of attack to make sure that you always have sufficient airspeed so that you never stall in the first place . Additional Information Since this has generated some debate , here is additional information : Spin According to <URL> ( emphasis added by me ) : Spins can be entered intentionally or unintentionally , from any flight attitude and from practically any airspeed -- all that is required is sufficient yaw rate while an aircraft is stalled . Yaw So this brings us to <URL> : The yaw axis is defined to be perpendicular to the body of the wings with its origin at the center of gravity and directed towards the bottom of the aircraft . A yaw motion is a movement of the nose of the aircraft from side to side . Skid <URL> actually covers this exact scenario : The skid is more dangerous than the slip if the airplane is close to a stall . In the slip , the raised wing -- the left one if the airplane is turning to the right -- will stall before the lowered one , and the airplane will reduce the bank angle , which prevents the stall . In the skid , the lowered wing will stall before the raised one , and the airplane will tighten the turn , and the stall can develop to a spin . Slip <URL> says : A slip is an aerodynamic state where an aircraft is moving somewhat sideways as well as forward relative to the oncoming airflow or relative wind . In other words , for a conventional aircraft , the nose will be pointing in the opposite direction to the bank of the wing ( s ) . The aircraft is not in coordinated flight and therefore is flying inefficiently . Note that the aircraft is moving sideways . The nose of the aircraft is not moving , and it is therefore not yawing . It also says : Often , if an airplane in a slip is made to stall , it displays very little of the yawing tendency that causes a skidding stall to develop into a spin . A stalling airplane in a slip may do little more than tend to roll into a wings level attitude . In fact , in some airplanes stall characteristics may even be improved .
end question
start question
How can I properly model paper airplane physics ?
I would model the energy flows between kinetic and potential energy . Start with a full bucket of potential energy plus the appropriate speed and drain kinetic energy away over time depending on flight speed . To know how much energy is lost to drag , you need to <URL> using two components : <URL> , which grows with the square of airspeed , and <URL> , which drops with the square of airspeed . If your drag is the sum of both , its minimum will be at some moderate speed . I plotted the drag components for a glider below , but since the physics are the same for a paper airplane , this plot should do for now . The nonlinear behavior of the induced drag curve at low speed is due to flow separation , and something very similar will happen for a paper airplane . The important thing is : The drag curve has a minimum . The energy loss over time is drag $ D$ times speed $ v $ . This energy $ E$ has to come from the reduction of height $ h $ over time $ t $ : $ $ \ frac { \ delta E } { \ delta t } = \ frac { \ delta ( m \ cdot g \ cdot h ) } { \ delta t } = D \ cdot v = m \ cdot g \ cdot v_z $ $ with $ m $ the mass of the paper airplane , $ g $ gravitational acceleration and $ h $ its height above ground . Only $ h $ changes over time , so derivation is easy and the derivative of $ h $ is $ v_z $ , the vertical speed . For picking a realistic drag it helps to rephrase the equation above by introducing lift $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z $ . $ n_z $ is the load factor and is approximately one in straight flight . The ratio between lift and drag for a paper airplane is somewhere between 4 and 10 - just pick a number which results in a realistic simulation . To calculate the sink speed $ v_z $ as a function of flight speed $ v $ use this formula : $ $ v_z = \ frac { c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot v ^ 3 \ cdot \ rho } { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } + \ frac { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } { v \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 \ cdot \ rho } $ $ S is the wing area of the paper airplane and $ b $ its wing span . $ \ rho $ is air density , and for the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ you should pick a number which makes the paper airplane look realistic . Start maybe with 0.05 .
There are two processes you can go through if your medical is denied - one is to appeal the denial to the FAA ( which you 'd do if your AME messed up and you can prove they 're wrong ) , the other is to reapply ( which is probably what you 'll want to do if you get denied ) . When you reapply you 're basically starting the medical certification process over from the beginning . You can reapply right away if you want , but practically you would reapply when you 've corrected whatever condition ( s ) caused you to be denied , and go back to your AME with documentation showing that your condition has been corrected ( or determined to be benign ) . I assume based on your question that you 've had to check the " Frequent or Severe Headaches " box , so you will continue to check that box , and may require a <URL> because of that -- your AME can give you more details if you wind up in this situation . If you do get denied talk to your AME ( and any other doctors you may be seeing ) about your next steps before doing anything - obviously medical issues are serious not just because they keep you out of the sky but because your health is important . You may also want to take advantage of <URL> - they have folks on staff who are experts at navigating the FAA medical process and can help you out . It could be worth it if you anticipate you 'll need assistance with medical certification over the long haul .
I think one thing that does not get emphasized enough : Pilots do not land airplanes!In fact , we try to keep the airplane flying as long as possible ! We systematically rob the airplane of energy ( energy from engine power , energy from airspeed , energy from altitude ) until the plane can no longer fly , and settles gently on the runway . But even as the plane is landing , the pilot is still trying to coax it back into the air to remove as much energy as possible . A big student mistake is to point the airplane at the runway , and try to force it to land there . That leads to landings too fast , too high , big bounces , porpoising , and sometimes nose-in crashes . So do n't think about " how am I going to land this thing ? " Instead think about " How am I going to remove more energy from the equation to lose altitude and airspeed ? " A landing is a series of precise targets you are aiming to hit , each with less energy than the last one ( but each one still with enough energy to keep flying and be safe ) Each target consists of Position ( horizontal and altitude ) , airspeed , and descent rate . You hit each of these targets at 3 different points on a square ( abeam the numbers , downwind-to-base , and base-to-final ) Hitting a target that consists of a position + airspeed + descent rate is not easy ! But the more precisely you can hit each target , the easier the next part is . Although I hope I 'm repeating the same instructions you 've already heard , for the sake of the Site , let me re-iterate the standard instructions for a C-172 . Be level at TPA ( airport + 1000 feet ) , and at a cruise speed of approximately 100 kts . The runway should be approx 3/4 of the way up your strut . When you are abeam the numbers , Carb Heat ( if applicable ) , throttle back to approx 1,600 RPM , and pull-back as necessary to maintain altitude ( the consequence will be that you slow down ) . Watch your speed , altitude and position . Drop flaps 10 & deg ; when speed allows , and aim to hit a speed of 85 kts , an altitude loss of 250 feet , and have the numbers at 45 & deg ; behind you , all at the same time . Turn the corner to base , using approximately 30 & deg ; of bank angle . Continue to reduce speed ( by pulling back ) to hit 75 kts , and drop altitude another 250 ft. ( you 're now 500 ft above the runway ) . Add Flaps 20 when appropriate . Turn the corner to final . You can " oval " your turn if you are undershooting the centerline , but do NOT over-bank if you have overshot the centerline . Aim for the centerline , acquire a PAPI/VASI , keep an eye on your airspeed relative to approach speed ( 68 kts ) . Watch 3 and ONLY 3 things : Airspeed ( Slowing towards 68 kts ) Centerline ( left ? right ? on target ? ) Slope ( PAPI/VASI ? Light configuration ) . Keep repeating " Airspeed , Centerline , Slope " out loud , describe if you 're too far/too close on each one , and describe how you 're going to correct . For example : " Airspeed : 75 kts ; too fast ; pulling back to slow down " " Centerline : Left of center ; coming slightly right " " Slope : 3 red +1 white is too low ; adding power to slow descent " ( repeat ! ) When the runway is made , drop final flaps , engine to idle , and prepare to flare when you 're about 10-15 feet , and hopefully right at the numbers . Remember that your altitudes are 1000 , 750 , 500 , touchdown . And your airspeeds are 85 , 75 , 65 .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
Yes it is possible , although it is kind of hard to prove it over the internet .1 When a teenager I lived under the approach path of Westover AFB . My friends and I had no difficulty at all distinguishing among these types by sound alone : Douglas DC-3 Douglas DC-7 Boeing 707 Douglas DC-8 Lockheed L-188 Electra Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation Convair B-36 Boeing B-47 Stratojet Boeing B-52 Stratofortress Convair F-102 Delta Dagger ( singly or flights of two or four ) Lockheed F-104 Starfighter ( singly or flights of two or four ) North American F-100 Super Sabre ( singly or flights of two or four ) We only looked up when some other type flew over . 1 . This line is an homage to kevin who said it first .
The thrust T of a rotor can be given as : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 $ $ With : $ \ rho $ = air density [ 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ ] at sea level $ A$ = area of the rotor disc [ m $ ^ 2 $ ] $ \ omega $ = angular speed of the rotor [ rad/s ] $ C_T $ = thrust coefficient . $ C_T $ depends on the configuration of the rotor : blade pitch , number of blades , blade chord etc. . It can range from 0 to 0.01 , without knowing more about the config of your rotor we can take the average at 0.005 the value 0.001 , see update below . The torque Q follows a similar format : $ $ Q = C_Q \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 \ cdot R $ $ For a given $ C_T $ , we can look up $ C_q $ in the following figure , valid for a propeller solidity of 0.1 . For a $ C_T $ of 0.005 we find a $ C_Q $ ( = $ C_P $ ! ) of 0.0004 , for the updated $ C_T $ of 0.001 the $ C_Q $ = 0.00015 <URL> <URL> : Update The above $ C_T $ is valid for helicopter rotors . For quadcopters with their much smaller rotors , induced power losses , tip losses etc are much higher . <URL> gives a detailed discussion on $ C_T $ of small rotors , although a direct comparison can not be made since they use a different definition of $ C_T $ . With this in mind , and using the definition of $ C_T $ as above , a better choice for $ C_T $ would be 0.001 , and the corresponding $ C_Q $ is 0.00015 .
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
The easiest way to tell the direction of the wind when you 're near the water is to look for something on the shore that indicated wind direction ( beaches often have flags on them ) Barring that there are a bunch of other clues that should be familiar to any sailor ( or seaplane pilot ) which you can borrow : Boats lying at anchor weathervane and automatically point into the wind This is n't 100 % reliable : Some boats will set two anchors ( fore and stern ) and wo n't weathervane . Also when the tide is shifting boats will swing to align with the tide if it 's stronger than the wind . Boats lying at anchor sometimes have a flag on them Flags on a boat at anchor work the same way as flags on land - they 're excellent indicators of wind direction . On calm bodies of water the wind creates visible surface ripples The concave side of these ripples is the windward side . <URL> ( Visualize the water as being a large bowl of soup - now blow on the soup . The ripples will have the same shape . ) This same principle applies to larger waves as well ( other factors could cause the dominant breeze along a shoreline to not be quite perpendicular to the waves , but if your concern is ground reference maneuvers it 's " close enough " ) . " Wind Streaks " on the sea indicate wind direction <URL> are somewhat ambiguous in that they 're aligned with the wind , but do n't tell you which way it 's blowing : You have to figure that out for yourself ( for example by looking at the shape of the waves as described above ) . <URL> Surf spray gives wind speed and direction Waves breaking will produce spray that blows downwind - I could n't find a good illustration for this , but the finer spray tends to blow , while heavier drops just fall . The distance the spray blows gives an approximate indication of wind speed . It would take some pretty heavy seas to produce visible spray at altitude though , and you 're more likely to see foam and whitecaps in that case Foam or Whitecaps provide wind speed and direction Foam or whitecaps provide an indication of direction ( the foam appears to move upwind - into the wind ) and speed ( it generally takes winds of 10-15 knots or more to produce whitecaps and foam ) .
On Nov 12 at about 1845 UTC , which would be about 1215 local on Nov. 13 , a Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , took off from BLR and did several touch-and-go 's at VOBG then returned to BLR . On Nov. 10 , around the same time , another Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , did the same thing . Taking off from BLR , doing touch-and-go 's at VOBG before returning to BLR . According to <URL> @pondlife found , VOBG airport is open for pilot training .
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
You must request a <URL> from the <URL> ( Flight Standards District Office ) . You 'll need to fill out <URL> , Application for U.S. Airworthiness , appropriately calling out the reasons you need a SFP ( ferry flight , etc ) . Once the form is submitted , you may be subject to an inspection by an FAA official or representative , verifying that your aircraft is in fact <URL> . Avemco , the insurance company , has <URL> that might be worth an extended read and which I do n't intend to copy here .
You can find much of this sort of information at <URL> For example , searching for <URL> lists their fleet , and clicking the number of active for a model ( eg <URL> ) will list the tail number and other interesting information . From there you can click a <URL> for all the information along with a picture .
Sure you can . Just request to fly the approach using either radar vectors or initial approach fixes , if available . The tower will usually comply and grant you the approach clearance , adding " maintain VFR " i.e. . The approach should be flown under visual flight rules and you can not use a view limiting device unless you have an appropriately rated safety pilot onboard with access to dual flight controls . For non towered airports , you will need to listen for traffic in the area on the CTAF and provide position reports often for the benefit of other pilots in the pattern . Flying practice instrument approaches in VFR is quite common and many pilots do this to maintain instrument proficiency . It is also common for instrument rated pilots to file a local IFR flight plan to practice as well .
Paper airplanes create lift just like any other airplane . Do n't let the wing cross section confuse you ; what the air " sees " is a different shape . When a flat plate flows through air at a positive angle of attack , the stagnation point of the flow ( where air splits into an upper and a lower flow path ) sits slightly below the forward edge of the wing . Now the streamline just above the one which hits the stagnation point has to negotiate the sharp corner of the leading edge , which will cause it to separate from the surface . This creates a small separation bubble which to the streamlines further up looks like a round leading edge , and since the rest of the wing has no curvature , the flow will attach again soon . The bigger the angle of attack gets , the farther back the stagnation point will be and the bigger the separation bubble becomes . At some point , which is promoted by leading edge sweep , the separated flow will not reattach , but produce a vortex , like the vortex which provides lift on delta wings . The picture above is from a simulation ; see the <URL> . Note the red color on the forward part of the upper side : This indicates low local pressure , which is needed to make the outer air negotiate the leading edge plus the separation bubble ( see <URL> for an explanation on the molecular level ) . In the separation bubble , low pressure is not accompanied by high flow speed since the separation turbulence has eaten up most of the kinetic energy . The actual nose radius of the paper wing does not matter , and it might even be zero ( like when you fit razor blades to the leading edge ) : The air will create its own airfoil shape by padding with separated air what can not be reached with attached flow . Paper airplanes have a low enough wing loading that their angle of attack is low and the separation does not become too big . All it needs is a center of gravity at the quarter chord of the wing ; that is why you need to fold the piece of paper first . It is interesting to watch a slightly tail-heavy , delta-shaped paper airplane fly : It will gradually reduce speed and will start to rock its wings when it approaches stall . Once one wing is going down , the sudden increase in its local AoA will increase lift so much that the rolling motion reverses , without noticeable yawing . The delta-shaped flat plate has effective roll damping right into the stall . The lack of yaw is mostly due to the high yaw inertia , but indicates also that drag buildup is moderate at best . Of course , after a few periods of rocking the nose will drop and it will pick up speed like any well-behaved airplane .
As <URL> , you can basically request flight following at any time and any certificate level - student , sport pilot , private pilot - the service is available to anyone . Also : We 're told that FF is " workload permitting " . I used to think that meant they 'd give you services when they can . But I was wrong about that . Instead , once they accept you , you 're in the system , and get full services . If they get too busy , they 'll tell you and kick you out of the system . ( " Radar Services Terminated ; Squawk VFR " ) FF depends on radar services . When flying rather low and near mountains , its easy for them to lose you . As for when you should request it : You can request it at anytime . Personally , I would n't be in a hurry to request it as soon as you depart . Wait until you 're established on course , in a cruise-attitude ( instead of a climb ) , and everything is settled and running smoothly . Then know your position , and how you 're going to report it . Know where you 're going ( both by name and ICAO identifier ) , and try to anticipate any questions they might ask . Look for the Center/Approach/Depature where you are ( look in your AF/D for an airport close to you ) , and call up with : You : " Seattle Center ; November 12345 : VFR , with request " translation : Calling Seattle Center , this is N12345 . I 'm VFR ( so you have n't heard from me before ... do n't be surprised ! ) , and I have a request . Center : " November 12345 : Say request . " You : " November 12345 is SkyHawk , 10 mi . South of Harvey Field , 4,500 feet . Request VFR Flight Following to Friday Harbor " translation : I 'm a Cessna Skyhawk , my location and altitude will help you find me . I 'm asking for FF to this other airport . " Center : " N345 : Squawk 4532 and Ident . " You : ( Set your transponder to 4532 , press the Identify Button ) , and say " 4532 and Ident , N345 " Center : " N345 : Radar Contact , 11 mi . south of Sierra Four Tree , at 4,500 . Traffic at your 1o ' clock , 5 mi . North Bound , Altitude indicates 3,000 . " translation : I found you on my radar scope , and am describing the position I see you . ( If you disagree , speak up ! ) . You have traffic ahead and slightly to your right . Their transponder indicates 3,000 feet , but I can not independently verify that .
UPDATE 9/4/2017 I 'm thrilled this post has been so helpful for so many people . As such , I wanted to update it with more details and more current links in case people are interested . Enjoy ! You could have a lot of fun , and get a lot out of reviewing the footage of your lessons . I 'd look into a suction cup mount as you are already considering . When buying a suction cup mount , make sure you get one that is " beefier " than you expect you need . Whatever you do , make sure you share your videos online , your video might even get someone else interested in aviation ! Below are the details of doing what you asked . You might be able to buy a used , older model gopro for a comparable price - but I 'd actually argue your phone is probably a better option . What to buy : ( this all actually gets kind of expensive , but is still cheaper than buying a go pro and accessories ) Must have : To get GoPro functionality from your iphone , you 'd need a mount and a case : <URL> ( Optrix Super Sucker Mount ) <URL> ( Case ) This is a mount that mimics the functionality of a go-pro mount . It also let 's you know if pressure is dropping in the suction cup as you climb . If you ever feel brave enough you could even stick this to your wing ! <URL> The view angle probably is not wide enough . This inexpensive kit will apply a wide angle to your iphone . I 'd make sure your case/mount does n't preclude using one of these . Best alternative camera to GoPro : <URL> ( Garmin Ultra Virb 30 ) I love the aviation data overlay of this camera . It works very well and helps debriefing a lot . I personally prefer this over my GoPro because it includes that data . Best GoPro options : <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ) 4k resolution @ 30FPS , 12MP quality is great . I use this mainly for wing mounted shots . <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ) The nice thing about the session series is they are small and super simple to operate . I use this camera to point inside the cabin , on the side windows . It is nice because it does n't block as much of my view outside , even in a mount on suction cups . Important Accessories : <URL> ( Zoom H1 ) I use this to record ATC/Headset audio . It is easy to have it recorded to its own device and lets me have better control over the audio recordings than if it was part of a video file . The audio is oftentimes more useful than the video alone , especially with your instructor explaining things to you . Having a separate device also reduces your point of failure risk if you have a camera battery die . <URL> ( Headset cable to record audio ) You need this cable to " grab " audio from your headset jack to record it to a camera or external recorder . ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( External Battery ) You will be running out of battery fast if you record HD video for any length of time . This external charger will keep you from running out of battery . ND ( Prop ) Filters ( remove the weird prop strobing from your footage ) ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ND Filter ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ND Filter ) Placement : The best place to put it would be between the seats on the ceiling pointing landscape style towards the instrument panel . This would give you a view of all of your instruments and maybe even a bit of the horizon . At first , we all struggle to use the horizon as a reference instead of instruments , so putting the camera close to head level might help develop a good sight picture . <URL> <URL> Unless you set up a second camera , you are unlikely to get rudder input on film . This video shows a good example of that angle , but might be impossible while getting dual instruction . <URL> <URL> Words of caution : Make sure your filming does n't distract you . This is really serious and not something to shrug off . Remember , you do n't want the FAA to have footage to shove in your face of you being reckless . Make sure you do n't damage the aircraft with the mount . The windshields in particular are vulnerable to being squeezed out of shape from the pressure in the suction cup , especially if they are hot . I have seen some indented windshields recently due to gopro mounts , which makes it very hard to get a normal sight picture ( imagine looking through a fun house mirror ) . UPDATE Another issue I recently saw was a result of someone using this camera : <URL> . The camera has a built in rare earth magnet which made mounting it very easy . The problem was , it was impacting the magnetic compass - so be aware if you get a magnetic mount to make sure your compass is not affected by it being placed in the cockpit ! When attached to the overhead speaker we saw no visible impact on the compass , but worth keeping an eye on . Take a look on youtube at some popular pilot channels to see how they record . From there , you can pick your favorite angles and splice a film together .
This can be sensed by means of either an INS or GPS to determine a ground velocity and both the data from the pitot static system and a magnetometer to determine the true air velocity . The local wind velocity is the difference between the ground velocity and the true air velocity .
I would model the energy flows between kinetic and potential energy . Start with a full bucket of potential energy plus the appropriate speed and drain kinetic energy away over time depending on flight speed . To know how much energy is lost to drag , you need to <URL> using two components : <URL> , which grows with the square of airspeed , and <URL> , which drops with the square of airspeed . If your drag is the sum of both , its minimum will be at some moderate speed . I plotted the drag components for a glider below , but since the physics are the same for a paper airplane , this plot should do for now . The nonlinear behavior of the induced drag curve at low speed is due to flow separation , and something very similar will happen for a paper airplane . The important thing is : The drag curve has a minimum . The energy loss over time is drag $ D$ times speed $ v $ . This energy $ E$ has to come from the reduction of height $ h $ over time $ t $ : $ $ \ frac { \ delta E } { \ delta t } = \ frac { \ delta ( m \ cdot g \ cdot h ) } { \ delta t } = D \ cdot v = m \ cdot g \ cdot v_z $ $ with $ m $ the mass of the paper airplane , $ g $ gravitational acceleration and $ h $ its height above ground . Only $ h $ changes over time , so derivation is easy and the derivative of $ h $ is $ v_z $ , the vertical speed . For picking a realistic drag it helps to rephrase the equation above by introducing lift $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z $ . $ n_z $ is the load factor and is approximately one in straight flight . The ratio between lift and drag for a paper airplane is somewhere between 4 and 10 - just pick a number which results in a realistic simulation . To calculate the sink speed $ v_z $ as a function of flight speed $ v $ use this formula : $ $ v_z = \ frac { c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot v ^ 3 \ cdot \ rho } { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } + \ frac { m \ cdot g \ cdot 2 } { v \ cdot \ pi \ cdot b ^ 2 \ cdot \ rho } $ $ S is the wing area of the paper airplane and $ b $ its wing span . $ \ rho $ is air density , and for the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ you should pick a number which makes the paper airplane look realistic . Start maybe with 0.05 .
There are of course a lot of tiny changes that Boeing would have done to the aircraft that most of us would n't notice , but for brevity I 've just included the major changes between the 737NG series and the upcoming 737MAX . The CFM LEAP-1B engine replaces the current CFM56 engines . Some of the significant improvements in fuel efficiency ( 15 % savings minus drag from larger engine touted by CFM ) come from a much higher bypass ratio ( from 5.3:1 to approximately 9:1 ) and materials that can tolerate higher temperatures . Chevrons ( saw-toothed tips at the end of the nacelle ) have also been included to reduce engine noise on takeoff . The engine change required changes to the nose landing gear to allow enough clearance from the ground , extending the nose gear by about 8 inches ( 20cm ) and modifying the nose gear bay to allow it to fit into the existing space . The AT ( Advanced Technology ) winglets replace the 737NG 's blended winglets . The AT winglet incorporates two portions , done to reduce the weight required ( compared to a larger blended wingtip ) while still reducing block fuel burn by about 1.5 % . Fly-by-wire spoiler system reduces the need for long cabling between the cockpit and the spoiler hydraulic actuators , saving weight , reducing stopping distance by quicker actuation and increasing the accuracy of the controls . Redesigned tailcone and modifications to elevator to improve aerodynamics , removing the requirement for vortex generators ( VGs ) , which improves predictability and control by making the air turbulent , but as a result increasing drag .
Transport Canada has all the information <URL> for each FAA license type ( and type ratings ) ; the necessary forms and contacts are <URL> . These are the basic requirements for a private pilot , for example : 6.1 Conditions for Conversion - Private Pilot -- Aeroplane . ( 1 ) Must hold an FAA Private airman certificate with airplane category and class rating ( s ) . ( 1 ) Age : Must be at least 17 years of age . ( 2 ) Medical fitness : Must hold either a Category 1 or Category 3 TCCA medical . ( 3 ) Knowledge : Must pass the Conversion - Private Pilot Licence -- Aeroplane , ( FAAPA ) written examination on air laws and communications . Must be able to read , write and communicate in English or French . ( 4 ) Experience : Must provide proof of a minimum of 45 hours pilot flight time . ( 5 ) Skill : No additional practical flight test is required .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of having different ILS categories ?
Instrument landing system - ILS - is a very common precision approach system used in airports around the world . An ILS consists of two ground antennas and an airborne received in the aircraft . One of the ground antennas , known as a localiser , transmits a narrow beam along the runway , giving lateral guidance to aircraft approaching the runway . The other antenna , the glide slope , transmits a vertical beam at a specified angle , giving vertical guidance for aircraft approaching . Together , the localiser and glide slope provides aircraft with an exact path to follow toward the runway . <URL> A localiser antenna The main advantage of ILS is that is allows approaches and landings in poor weather conditions . Pilots do not have to visually see the runway until moments before touchdown , because the ILS can guide the plane down very precisely . However , there are different standards of ILS . These are named CAT I , CAT II and CAT III ( CAT III has three additional substandards : CAT IIIa , CAT IIIb and CAT IIIc ) . In order to fly a CAT I approach , the cloud based ( ceiling ) must be no lower than 200 feet and the visibility must be no lower than 550 metres . This is because the pilots must be able to visually identify the runway no later than 200 feet above the ground to be able to land . For a CAT II approach , the ceiling must not be lower than 100 ft and the visibility not less than 350 metres . CAT IIIa has a minimum ceiling of 50 ft and a minimum visibility of 200 metres . CAT IIIb has no minimum ceiling , but there must be at least 50 metres of visibility . For a CAT IIIc , which has not actually been implemented anywhere , there are no minimum limits for ceiling and visibility . As you can see , CAT II or III approaches allow pilots to land is extremely bad weather conditions . So if CAT III is so great , why do n't we use it all the time ? In order to use CAT II/III approaches , a number of conditions have to be met : The ground based ILS equipment must live up to very strict standards , and be very carefully calibrated . As a result , installing and maintaining CAT II/III ILS equipment at an airport is very expensive , so not all airports have it . In addition to the ILS antennas , there are also strict requirements for other runway equipment such as lighting . The aircraft must have special equipment that is certified to perform CAT II/III approaches . Again , cost is a significant factor . Equipping aircraft with such fine tuned equipment is very expensive , and if you mostly fly to areas with good weather , it is probably not worth it . The pilots must be qualified . A normal pilot license is not enough to fly a CAT II/III approach , you need additional training and qualifications to be allowed to perform such approaches . Air traffic control low visibility procedures result in reduced airport capacity . Because ILS signals are transmitted from antennas on the ground , there are risks of interfering with the ILS signal , resulting in imprecise guidance . The main issue is when an aircraft moves in front of the antennas , partly blocking the signal for other aircraft on approach . Because of this , airports have strict rules for how close aircraft may get to ILS antennas when CAT II/III approaches are in use . Aircraft on the ground must hold further away from the runway than they normally would , to stay clear of so called ILS sensitive areas . <URL> An example of ILS sensitive/critical areas at an airport <URL> Separate runway holding points used when CAT II/III approaches are carried out We also need additional space between two aircraft approaching the same runway . This is because the first aircraft , once landed and on the runway , can block parts of the localiser signal for the following aircraft . Because of this , the first aircraft must be clear of the runway by the time the second aircraft joins short final . This means we need extra space between aircraft , resulting in a reduced runway capacity . As you can see , there are a number of factors limiting the use of CAT II/III approaches , which is why they are only used when the weather is so bad that CAT I approaches can not be carried out .
Two wheels side-by-side would only be needed if the craft is in danger of tipping over sideways . Airships should stay upright because the lifting gas will still provide most of the lift , and the wheel is only for carrying the remaining load . It can swivel for ground maneuvering when the airship needs to swing into the wind while mooring at the mast , but will neither absorb big <URL> nor carry the craft at high speed , so it can be kept small . On the lower tailfin you should only provide a bumper for unintended ground contact ; adding a second wheel would only make sense when the ship touches the ground with both wheels when level . This would be a bad design , however , because maneuvering will be much easier when the lower tail fin provides enough ground clearance to allow pitch angles of approx . 3 ° - 5 ° . Note that the lower fin on most Zeppelins was smaller than the upper fin ; only the last , less slender ones could afford equally sized fins . In that case , however , you need sufficient propulsion power to keep the cruise speed well above the <URL> .
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
It does help a little , yes . One source of noise is the fluctuation in dynamic pressure experienced by a blade of the rear propeller when it cuts through the wake of a blade of the forward propeller . Friction in the boundary layer on the first blade will reduce the dynamic pressure locally and create pressure fluctuations on the second blade , and noise . By using a different number of blades , the pressure fluctuations will not happen all at the same time , but sequentially , which reduces the peak power of the noise . The effect of the second blade cutting through the wake of the first is still there , but is distributed over time . Thanks to @MSalters for pointing out another effect . I copy straight from his comment : The effect is not just distributed over time , but also shifted up in frequency . At 6000 RPM ( 100 Hz ) , with 4 blades per propeller they pass each other 8 times per revolution ( 800 Hz ) . If the second propeller has 5 blades , this moves up to 4000 Hz . <URL> , picture by Marina Lystseva . The forward propeller has 8 blades and the rear propeller has 6 . For optimum noise reduction , the rear propeller should have just one blade less than the forward propeller . The leading edge sweep helps to stretch out the contact of a single blade with the wake over time , which again reduces peak noise .
It 's been a while since my last lessons on radars , but . . The pulse length and the pulse repetition frequency play key roles in radar min and max ranges . The pulse the radar sends must be short enough to end ( and the radar switch to detection mode ) before the reflection returns . To give a rough example , if the pulse length is 2 ms , the theoretical minimum range would be equal to pulse distance in 1 ms ( 1 there and 1 back ) . The pulse travels at light speed , so you can calculate the distance there . Note that the pulse lengths differ a lot depending on radars , and presumably none of the are 1 ms long . Free quote from the book Understanding Radar Systems : Pulse length of 3 µs , which is a fairly typical pulse length for a long-range airborne surveillance radar , would give a theoretical range resolution of 450 m. However , other factors such as signal processing degrade the resoution , and in the given case the resolution would be around 750 m. Note again , that radars are designed to serve a specific purpose , for example a long-range surveillance radar emphasizes range over resolution . What it comes to fighters , most modern fighters have <URL> instead of pulse radars , which work continuously and handle the signal differently .
ICAO and FAA CAT III definitions A CAT III operation is a precision approach at lower than CAT II minima . Sub-categories are listed below . A category III A approach is a precision instrument approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 100ft ( 30m ) and a runway visual range not less than 700ft ( 200m ) . A category III B approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 50ft ( 15m ) and a runway visual range less than 700ft ( 200m ) , but not less than 150ft ( 50m ) . A category III C approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height and no runway visual range limitation . * I 've omitted the JAA definitions . Source <URL> . FAA Reference Material The below links are to comprehensive FAA publications covering the areas as titled . <URL> . <URL> . Thanks <URL> for the comment with links to these documents .
A major advantage is standardization . An aircraft can be given a <URL> , and assuming everything goes to plan , everyone involved will be on the same page as to what is going to happen . When air traffic control instructs an aircraft to fly a departure procedure , a large volume of information ( e.g. climb to this altitude , turn this way , turn that way , etc. . . ) can be communicated just by giving the name of the procedure . This is far more convenient and predictable for both the crew and controllers than giving every instruction individually . This allows controllers to focus on preventing conflicts and dealing with abnormal situations rather than issuing routine instructions , and it reduces the risk those instructions may be miscommunicated or misunderstood . The procedure itself will have been developed by specialists based on all sorts of criteria , among them : Obstacle clearance . This can be anything from the huge mountain range near the airport to buildings to towers to anything else . The procedure can be designed with a required minimum rate of climb , and pilots can ensure they are able to meet that requirement to climb over any obstacles . Obstacles might also be virtual , such as restricted areas for military purposes . Noise abatement . Communities in the vicinity of airports often have noise complaints . Departure procedures can be designed to direct aircraft away from noise sensitive areas . Traffic flow . Near a busy airport , large numbers of aircraft are maneuvering at low altitudes . Standardizing departure and arrival flows along certain corridors allows air traffic control to deal with aircraft moving in predictable ways and avoids potential conflict between different aircraft . Departure procedures help ensure separation between arriving and departing aircraft . Regional traffic flows . In congested airspace where several busy airports are located in close proximity , procedures can be developed to ensure that traffic to and from each airport are kept separated . A good example is the busy airspace around New York City , where <URL> are used to separate traffic into the region 's airports . Winds . Different runways may be used depending on wind conditions . There may be different departure procedures available for different runway configurations and/or universal departure procedures that have different instructions depending on the runway used . Navigational aids . While modern <URL> procedures are now available , traditional departure procedures guide aircraft from the runway through routes navigable through NAVAIDS like <URL> and <URL> onto established <URL> . Of course , an aircraft flying a departure procedure can always be given instructions to deviate from that procedure if it becomes necessary , such as for other traffic . If conditions permit , it 's also possible for a controller to give a " shortcut " by circumventing part of the procedure , perhaps by turning early toward the next waypoint on the flight 's filed route .
Yes , since the ILS is just a set of radio signals emitted and received by aircraft , there can be more than one aircraft established on localizer and glidepath . The ILS does not lock or tune onto one single aircraft , it continuously broadcasts the localizer and glidepath signal . Since the localizer and glidepath antennas are located at the end of runway for the localizer and at the side of the runway for the glidepath , you will only need to worry about interference by aircraft on the ground , where they are close to the antennas and can deflect the signal due to proximity . This is why there are protection areas and aircraft need to hold at certain holding points , e.g. CAT II holding points when CAT II approaches are in use . Aircraft in the air can also interfere and deflect the signal , however the emitted signals spread in a cone , so other aircraft still can receive the correct signals . To quote <URL> from one of the comments : [ ... ] basically , the localizer is projected from the far end of the runway , and the glideslope is projected from the side of the runway at or near the touchdown target . Thus , aircraft in line to touch down on the ideal target will have good line-of-sight to both transmitter pairs ( unless there 's an aircraft in the ILS Critical Area ) <URL> ( Image Source : www.aopa.org ) ( Image Source : <URL> ( found via <URL> ) ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
Other people have complained about this too . Boeing should rename the type to the " Whineliner " . The noise is caused by a hydraulic pump which is situated directly below the cabin . It mostly runs on takeoff and landing , but it can also run automatically at other times . Dogs have been reported to need psychiatric treatment after being transported on a 787 .
As in anything in aviation design , the use of wingtips has both advantages and disadvantages . In the end , the decision to use ( or not ) a winglet is based on the cost-benefit analysis of the winglet to be used in that particular aircraft . All winglets incur a drag and weight penalty - the question is whether they conserve fuel more than they increase it in the first place . One problem in winglet addition is that they are prone to flutter . Also , an <URL> is sometimes more effective and is less risky . Another thing to add is that most of the present aircraft using winglets ( A320s and B737s ) were not designed with winglets to begin with . They were retrofits . Most of the new aircraft are designed with plenty of aerodynamic experience and the engineers can take a call based on the data available as to whether to have ' conventional ' winglet or not ( See A350XWB Vs B787 ) . Coming to B777 , it should be noted that they have wingtip devices after all - raked wingtips . These act in the same manner as the winglets to reduce drag . <URL> Boeing 777 raked wingtip ; image from <URL> According to Boeing , Each wing on the Boeing 777-300ER ( extended range ) is being extended by 6.5 feet , and raked wingtips are being added to improve the overall aerodynamic efficiency . The raked wingtips help reduce takeoff field length , increase climb performance and reduce fuel burn . So basically , these act in the same manner as the conventional wingtips . Also , it is crucial to consider the tradeoff . B777 was designed when the advantages of the wingtips were well known , yet they decided to go without one anyway . From <URL> : Because winglets are a tradeoff : In the highly visible case of the 777 , an airplane with exceptionally long range , the wings grew so long that folding wingtips were offered to get into tight airport gates . Finally <URL> when they were first ordered , though that has not stopped Boeing from trying . Note that one main reason for offering folding wings is to fit into existing gates - else the wingspan would 've become too great . Boeing considered all the options before deciding to go with this option : Dave Akiyama , manager of aerodynamics engineering in Boeing product development , points out that designing winglets can be tricky-they have a tendency to flutter , for example . " We find that it really does n't matter what kind of wingtip device you use-they 're all like span , " he says . " The devil is in the details . Span extensions are the easiest and least risky . " And finally , <URL> , especially for the earlier versions , though nothing came out of that - so most probably they were of not much use in improving fuel burn . Note that 787 also has a similar ' raked ' wingtip instead of winglet . Note : The fuel burn can be reduced by other means than wingtip devices - Boeing <URL> for the Boeing 777 , <URL> by 1 % : ... for long-range 777s , with United , Continental , and Delta investing in modifying the outboard aileron droop and the environmental control system , making ram air improvements , and installing smaller wing vortex generators to yield a total of 1 percent fuel burn improvement .
Redundancy , particularly during <URL> operations . How it works depends on the specific airplane type . In the most advanced systems with triple ( or more ) flight guidance computers ( FGCs ) , a " voting " concept is used during critical operations like autoland . All 3 computers calculate their commands independently , and vote on what to do . The middle value , or sometimes the average of the 2 " most similar " values , is then passed to the flight control actuators . In this way , if any one of the computers fails and starts producing garbage commands , those erroneous commands will not be selected ( they are automatically rejected by the voting scheme ) . A monitoring system can also detect a failed computer in this way and take it offline , allowing " fail-active " functionality -- an autoland can continue on the 2 remaining functional computers . Less complex aircraft , and aircraft without autoland , still sometimes have 2 FGCs , but do not support fail-active operation . In these systems only one of the two computers is active or selected at any given time . A transfer switch in the cockpit allows the pilot to transfer control from one computer to the other if one fails . And it 's not just airliners . Business jets commonly also have dual FGCs , and in recent times even small general aviation airplanes like the Diamond DA-42 have dual systems ( Garmin G1000 in dual-GFC700 configurations ) . <URL> ( click for high res version ) shows a Cessna Citation CJ business jet with dual Garmin autopilots . At the top of the PFD , notice there is a small green arrow pointing left ; this indicates the left FGC is currently selected . The photo also shows the XFR ( transfer ) button on the mode select panel , top center , just underneath the master caution/warning annunciator panel . Pushing this button would switch to the right ( # 2 ) FGC and change the arrow on the PFD to point to the right . These indications are fairly representative of other dual-FGC systems . <URL> of a Hawker 800 with Rockwell Collins Pro Line 21 . You can see the same arrow on the PFDs . In this aircraft the transfer switch is labeled " AP XFR " and is again on the autopilot panel just underneath the glareshield at the top of the panel toward the left hand side . And finally <URL> with 3 FGCs and full autoland capability . It 's a bit hard to read in this photo , but just above the autopilot disengage bar ( the " spacebar " looking thing on the right side of the mode select panel just under the glareshield ) the 3 buttons are labeled " A/P ENGAGE " , " L " " C " and " R " for the left , center and right FGCs . During an autoland all 3 would be selected and illuminated .
I do n't think that the article suggests " pilots are using ILS for landing only in bad whether conditions " . it simply says that under foggy ( i.e. in bad weather ) , ILS is used as visual approach is not possible . The use of ILS is at the discretion of pilots with ATC permission . The ILS localiser and glideslope can still be used as a reference during the visual approach ( even if the landing is not ILS ) . The decision is the pilots ' as the visual indicators and glideslope may not match . While it is true that ILS is much more precise and safer , you are forgetting the human factor - the pilot may want to ' fly ' the aircraft rather than letting the computer do it .
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
There 's no tangible benefit to having a GROL in getting a pilots license of any kind as getting the license generally confers the right to use aircraft radios . In some places you need to get an RT license for aviation as a separate test , however that 's pretty minimal . A GROL is only good for repairing , maintaining , and running certain types of radio stations . An A&amp;P will let you work on airplanes , but it also does not help get a license . An A&amp;P will give you insights into how an airplane works , but you can get those insights without an A&amp;P . Having an A&amp;P and a pilots license might be a different story if you plan to work in remote locations where being able to fix your aircraft when it breaks is useful . It wo n't help you get a flying job in most places .
Fluid Types <URL> contains a good summary of the different types of fluid : Types Type I fluids have a low viscosity , and are considered " unthickened " . They provide only short term protection because they quickly flow off surfaces after use . They are typically sprayed on hot ( 130 -- 180 ° F , 55-80 ° C ) at high pressure to remove snow , ice , and frost . Usually they are dyed orange to aid in identification and application . Type II fluids are pseudoplastic , which means they contain a polymeric thickening agent to prevent their immediate flow off aircraft surfaces . Typically the fluid film will remain in place until the aircraft attains 100 knots or so ( almost 200 km/h ) , at which point the viscosity breaks down due to shear stress . The high speeds required for viscosity breakdown means that this type of fluid is useful only for larger aircraft . The use of type II fluids is diminishing in favour of type IV . Type II fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type III fluids can be thought of as a compromise between type I and type II fluids . They are intended for use on slower aircraft , with a rotation speed of less than 100 knots . Type III fluids are generally light yellow in color . Type IV fluids meet the same AMS standards as type II fluids , but they provide a longer holdover time . They are typically dyed green to aid in the application of a consistent layer of fluid . Chemical Composition The main component of deicing fluid is usually propylene glycol or ethylene glycol . Other ingredients vary depending on the manufacturer , but the exact composition of a particular brand of fluid is generally held as confidential proprietary information . Call ahead to the airport to see what kind of deice/anti-ice fluid that they have because each one is different . Time Limits Every year , the FAA publishes tables which include information about how long the various deice fluids will provide protection under various weather conditions . Here is an example table : For this particular fluid ( ABAX ECOWING AD-49 Type IV ) we can lookup a specific example such as : -10 Degrees Celcius 75 % fluid and 25 % water Light Snow This shows that the fluid will provide protection for 1:40 to 2:05 . If you are delayed longer than that , you will need to deice again . Since every part of the aircraft needs to be protected , the timing starts when they first start spraying the aircraft . Note that other types of fluid ( particularly Type I fluids ) have much shorter holdover times than this , so be careful and make sure that you check ! Resources <URL> <URL>
I may have more news on that next week from Sun 'n Fun 2017 . Pipistrel will be an exhibitor at the show and may have a Panthera prototype on display . Currently the Panthera is planned to be released as an experimental kit and may be type certified at some point in the future . I know the program has suffered some setbacks , including an increase of empty weight by some 200 lbs . New aircraft development is never fast nor without complications . The Panthera does look intriguing - 200 KIAS on 10 GPH with good , stable flight characteristics and modern avionics , BRS parachute , etc. . I want to take it for a demo flight when production examples become available .
LPV and non-baro LNAV/VNAV requires that a Space-Based Augmentation System ( SBAS ) be available to the GPS receiver . In the United States , that system is called Wide Area Augmentation System ( WAAS ) . Similar services operate in other parts of the world ( e.g. EGNOS in Europe , MSAS over Japan , GAGAN over India ) but coverage is not worldwide , and not all GNSS ( Global Navigation Satellite System ) approaches are approved for LPV . Having a baro-VNAV system in the aircraft allows you to shoot LNAV/VNAV approaches if SBAS is not available . While not as useful in the United States , as we have robust and reliable coverage with WAAS , it is nice to have in parts of the world where SBAS is unreliable or non-existent . FAA fact sheet on RNAV ( GPS ) approaches : <URL> Worldwide SBAS information : <URL>
Do cargo pilots receive different training than airline pilots ? First , cargo carriers are airlines just as passenger carriers are airlines , and cargo pilots are airline pilots . In the U.S. there is no difference in the training and certification of pilots dependent on whether they fly passengers or cargo . Also , be aware that airlines you generally think of as passenger carriers can also be operating freighters as well as carrying cargo on pax flights . Whether there are passengers or cargo in the back , the airplane is having to operate in the same airspace , and a given aircraft model , whether in pax or cargo configuration , is essentially the same insofar as flying the aircraft . Indeed , at each of the two 747 carriers I flew for , we had both pax and all-cargo aircraft , and which we were flying made no difference in our pay rate . Pay rate is typically dependent on equipment flown , union contracts , and other considerations , but not on whether there are boxes or people in the bck . There are a few differences in flying pax versus flying cargo . Some that I can think of offhand are : With pax and within 4000 feet of the ground we limited our bank to 20 degrees unless in cloud . With pax we tried to avoid turbulence in general . With cargo not so much . Boxes do n't complain . With pax you are less likely to be concerned about weight and balance . Pax weight and balance is relatively simple , cargo weight and balance can be more of a problem . With pax , you of course can have passenger problems , but those are almost always handled by the cabin crew . Only once did I feel that I really had to go back to the cabin , and that was because we had an inexperienced purser . Even then I could have sent the flight engineer or first officer , but I was bored . With cargo , you do n't have to worry about passenger announcements . With cargo , you do n't have to worry about dinging the flight attendants going through 10,000 feet . Cargo is more fun , in my opinion , insofar as flying the airplane ; you feel free to do things that you might not do with pax . Pax is more fun on layovers , and you do n't have to get your own meals , drinks , etc in flight , although I flew 3-man cockpits and the flight engineer often took care of getting those things on cargo flights . Pax can be a problem on layovers where they 're depending on the full crew being available the next day , because flight attendants increase the number of required crew members , and thus the greater the chance that somebody will get sick , get beat up , get in trouble with the law , get hit by a car , or run out of money and hit up the captain for an emergency loan . I had all of those happen . Finally , arguably the life that the pilot is most interested in preserving is her/his own . Get yourself to the destination safely . What 's in the back of the airplane will follow .
Only in aerobatic aircraft is the inverted stall speed identical to the upright stall speed in level flight . Airplanes registered in the Normal and Utility classes have cambered airfoils which have a higher positive maximum lift coefficient . In inverted flight , their stall speed is higher than their upright stall speed . The same goes for gliders and airliners . When I had my last aborted winch launch in a ASK-13 , I involuntarily checked how well the cockpit had been cleaned last time . I had to briefly close my eyes to avoid getting sand and dust into them . I can confirm that it is fully possible to fly a negative maneuver in upright position , albeit only briefly . However , the negative acceleration had as much to do with the rate of rotation and my position ahead of the cg as with negative lift . If I had pushed a lot more , I could had stalled the wing by undershooting the negative lift minimum . But this would had just limited the downward acceleration , and the negative lift would not had been sufficient for inverted flight , because the inverted stall speed in level inverted flight was most likely higher than the speed at the time of the tow line rupture . The negative stall speed is just your flight speed , and the possible negative gs grow with the square of speed . Stall is a matter of angle of attack , not of speed . A negative stall in upright attitude is rather uneventful - the aircraft will be at a high rate of rotation and will just hit the limit of downward acceleration .
end question
start question
What are the names of the vehicles to provide assistance to aircraft during the turnaround ?
The most common vehicle seen is the tug . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Tugs are multipurpose tractors that are used to tow around all sorts of things . Several types of equipment are shown in this diagram : <URL> <URL> The tow vehicle at the nose is more commonly referred to as a pushback tug . They come in different sizes . Here is an example : <URL> <URL> The GPU is most often a unit that is towed behind a tug . <URL> <URL> Belt loaders usually can be driven on their own : <URL> <URL> The wide loader is used to put cargo containers in the hold : <URL> <URL> The cabin cleaning truck and galley service truck often have a lift built in : <URL> <URL> Luggage can be brought in baggage carts <URL> <URL> or in cargo containers which are brought to the aircraft on dollies <URL> <URL> Another vehicle often seen is the people mover : <URL> <URL>
A Pelican tail is a V-tail with the two tail surfaces set apart . Compare this to a straight V-tail as that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the F-117 ( picture <URL> ) The closest to a Pelican tail which has actually been flown is maybe that of the <URL> : <URL> Tail view of the YF-23 ( picture <URL> ) Clearly , the distance between the two surfaces is dictated by the engines , but Northrop could have placed them on top of the nacelles . However , doing so would had been a poor choice for several reasons . A Pelican tail has those advantages : If the vertical part is too close to the wing strake or fuselage chines , the strake vortex could hit the tail surfaces and cause oscillatory loads . <URL> so they would not break off . A Pelican tail should easily avoid this . A pure V-tail has <URL> , because the pitch-induced angle of attack change is reduced and the reaction force , too , by the V angle . Placing a horizontal strip in the middle improves pitch damping . Wikipedia has conflicting information on weight savings , but generally V - and Pelican tails should be more efficient than a conventional tail . However , for the best maneuverability a conventional tail is preferable . Again , placing a horizontal part between the two V surfaces improves pitch maneuverability , even when the control surfaces are only on the V part . Their symmetric deflection will induce a considerable lift change on the horizontal part . Placing the vertical tail outside and aft of the engine exhaust will shield the lateral IR radiation better . The drawbacks are : Higher structural complexity compared to a true V-tail . Lower maneuverability and yaw damping than a conventional tail . EDIT : I knew I had seen a Pelican tail before , but could not remember where . Now I found it : <URL> This ist the German <URL> helicopter ( picture <URL> ) , and yes , this is a Pelican tail ; however without control surfaces . It had two intermeshing rotors which made a tail rotor unnecessary . Anton Flettner had built the similar <URL> in 1940 and introduced the 282 in 1942 .
The FAA has an <URL> on bird strikes and other wildlife hazards , which includes a ( broken ) link to their Wildlife Hazard Management at Airports - A Manual for Airport Personnel <URL> . Chapter 9 is called " WILDLIFE CONTROL STRATEGIES AND TECHNIQUES AT AIRPORTS " and includes the following techniques : Change flight schedules Modify the birds ' habitat ( food , cover , water ) Physically exclude the animals ( not so easy with birds ) Repel the birds with vehicles , chemicals , sound , visual objects ( flags , scarecrows , fake dead animals , lasers ) Repel the birds with trained falcons or dogs Shoot nonlethal projectiles at the birds Trap , remove and release the birds at a different location Kill the birds with poison or other means The document summarizes the various techniques like this : Habitat modifications to minimize food , cover , and water and physical barriers to exclude wildlife are the foundations of wildlife hazard management programs for airports . In addition , an integrated array of repellent techniques is necessary to disrupt normal behavior and to stress hazardous wildlife that attempt to use the airport . These repellent techniques must be used judiciously and backed by real threats to minimize habituation . To this end , lethal control of selected individuals of common species is sometimes necessary to reinforce repellent actions .
The most common failure leading to depressurization I 've personally seen is a pack/air cycle machine failure . The equipment that takes pressurized bleed air from the engine , cools and expands it . I 've seen it happen two ways . 1 ) The aircraft is dispatched with one pack on MEL and the second pack fails in flight or 2 ) The aircraft is flying at high altitude , 1 pack fails , the other pack switches to high flow mode and fails soon after . Pack failure is by far the most common I 've seen . But have also seen a couple failed fuselage skins and a few burst PAX windows . Typically door leaks are enough to be noisy as heck , but not depressurize the aircraft .
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
Assuming that you 're asking about intercepting the glideslope from above rather than the localizer , the answer is that it is definitely NOT recommended . There are at least two significant problems if you do this . First , is the fact that at high vertical angles there can be false glideslopes . Looking at the diagram below , if you 're coming at the glideslope from above and the needle starts to move , are you intercepting the real 3 & deg ; glideslope or the false 9 & deg ; glideslope ? <URL> The diagram above is the best I could find , but it has one error . It shows a " Flag no signal " at 6 & deg ; . Actually what you 'll have there is another false glideslope , but one which has reverse sensing . You can , of course , do a reasonability check if you know your distance from the runway , or you could compare your vertical speed if following it with what you know your vertical speed should be , or on the 6 & deg ; line a command to go up when you know you should go down would be a hint , but it 's unwise in my opinion to put yourself in a situation that increases your work load that much during an instrument approach . You asked about GPWS warnings . None of the aircraft I flew that had GPWS would sound a GPWS warning just from receiving a false glide slope . However , all of them would have sounded the GPWS if you followed a false glideslope and were close to the ground because doing so would give you an excessive sink rate . A second problem with approaching from above is that the vertical angular width of the glideslope as measured from needle full down to needle full up is very small . As I remember only about one degree . Whatever it is , though , the point is that if you descend into the glideslope with a vertical speed of only a few hundred feet per minute greater than the glideslope itself is descending , the needle is going to go from full down to full up very quickly . Without working it out , I 'd guess that if you 're inside the outer marker you might well miss its movement if your instrument scan had you away from the needle more than a second . In the late 1970s a friend of mine was flying a charter in a Cessna 310 . He unwisely decided to intercept the glideslope at Salem , Oregon from above . The aircraft hit the ground in the vicinity of the outer marker , killing all aboard . During the accident investigation , the NTSB found from radar data that he had a descent rate greater than 1,000 fpm going through the glideslope .
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
Two reasons often-cited for having spoilerons : better roll control ( especially during stall ) does n't take up space for flaps Because of their location , they do n't need to take up space which could be used for flaps . For example , on the MU-2 , the primary reason for using spoilerons was to allow for full-span flaps at the rear , lowering clean wing area while still having acceptable stall speeds in the takeoff/landing configurations ( and therefore shorter landing distances ) . This is one of the reasons for it to takeoff from runways less than 3000 feet , while having a cruise speed of up to 300 knots . However , spoilerons have the disadvantage of killing lift , which can be deadly in situations such as a one-engine-out situation in a twin . To compensate for this , usually minimal constant spoiler use is recommended , and mostly rudder is used if an engine fails . If available , aileron trim ( despite the name , there are n't any " real " ailerons on such an aircraft ) is used to reduce drag if long-term use is expected . Spoilerons tend to have less of a difference in roll rates at low and high speeds , compared to ailerons -- this could either be considered an advantage or a disadvantage , depending on the situation and whether a pilot is used to one type of roll control or another . This can negatively affect the roll control feel of the aircraft though , as it might feel slightly sluggish at higher airspeeds . They also tend not to provide much ( if any ) feedback to the pilot , which is a disadvantage . Note that most large airliners use both spoilerons and ailerons for roll control , to be able to still have an aileron while supplementing large control inputs with the spoilers .
In all cases the answer is yes , those aircraft were all outfitted with seats , and at least very close to being ready for delivery to the customer . Installing interiors and seats is a regular part of the production process , and it 's unlikely that the plane would be pulled from the line before seats are installed , and worked back in later . From looking at <URL> , these aircraft all had about 7 months between rollout and delivery , with the air show appearance happening within a month of delivery . Also , the aircraft are used as static displays while not flying , allowing people to walk through and see the interior . In 2011 , the Korean Air A380 <URL> . It was delivered in the middle of July . In 2012 , the Malaysian A380 <URL> . It was delivered at the end of July . In 2013 , the British Airways A380 probably had seats installed . I ca n't find any pictures of the inside , but it was delivered shortly after <URL> . Airbus also tends to bring a flight test A380 like MSN001 ( first to fly , registered F-WWOW ) for display , and has a <URL> . The Korean Air A380 was used for the display in 2011 after the flight test plane MSN004 had a <URL> .
In addition to <URL> , I am contributing some more details . Airbus 380 has room ( <URL> ) for potable water tanks which can be added to existing on-board water capacity for showers etc. . As we know , the showers are n't available for everyone but only for first class , which is probably less than 5 % of the total number of passengers , so the water usage is not tremendously huge . Waster consumption and shower duration is also controlled . <URL> makes the showers for Emirates and states : Low water consumption of less than 5 litres per minute When <URL> shower duration is consumed , it shuts down and you have to turn it on again for the remaining 75 seconds . Here is a <URL> ( including video ) of a passenger enjoying the spa .
&#72; ello - your Friendly Neighborhood Parachute Rigger here . Sport chutes are pretty reliable , have been since the mid 90s to the point where more accidents happen under fully functional canopies . If we disregard rank stupidity like tying the flaps shut1 or incompetent packing we find that the leading cause of malfunctions is bad body position on deployment . You are supposed to be face down , shoulders level before opening the thing . If you are on your back or tumbling you can have various parts wrap around you . High-performance canopies are somewhat more sensitive to the shoulders being level and can open in a decently fast spin . Depending on the spin direction and your altitude you may not be able to recover2 . The emergency chutes are built differently , emphasizing ( obviously ) reliability over being able to land at 100km/h . This means that twisted lines are either recoverable or not an issue . If the jumper is n't paying attention to where he is , you may find that a leading cause of going splat is not using the perfectly good canopy on your back . Automatic activators have more-or-less eliminated this as a common cause3 , but if the jumper thinks that the houses look a bit too big and deploys the main at the same time as the reserve opens they may decide to wrap each other up . Ram-air canopies are like badgers - they do n't like each other very much and having two open at the same time is a rather delicate situation . If we turn to landing accidents , we find that there are all kinds of ways to injure or kill yourself with a fully functional canopy overhead . The aforementioned 100km/h landing speed is no joke - hit an obstacle on the ground going that fast and it 's exactly the same as jumping out of a car on the highway . Buildings , trees , power lines , vehicles , running propellers etc. have all claimed their sacrifices . And do n't try to land on both sides of the fence at the same time . Or in the alligator farm across the road . Mechanical failure of the system is very rare - riggers wo n't pack worn-out reserves , and if they are concerned about someone 's main they will tell the dropzone management who will usually decline to provide services until it 's fixed . Many jumpers will tie various handles to the pack before travelling . Prevents the pack accidentally opening when curious security or customs pick it up by what looks like the carry handle . Remove before Flight ! Happened to me twice - the first time I looked up , then down , decided I did n't have enough time to fix it . The second time it was spinning the other way and I fixed it in 2 seconds . Automatic activators fire at 750-1000 feet . If you are in freefall below that altitude you 're usually done .
DO-178 / ED-12C Any software that executes on installed hardware in a type certified aircraft will need go to through DO-178C ( or a similar process ) . The amount of effort involved depends on the safety criticality of the software functions . Since this sounds like a new system without predefined System Requirements ( such as those you would get from an OEM as part of the SAE ARP 4754A processes ) , those will need to be defined by your development process and then your Software ( High Level ) Requirements trace from those . Here in the US , smaller companies will typically contact and work with the local ACO ( Aircraft Certification Office ) during the product planning stages to identify the product as following the DO-178C processes . Larger companies , especially OEMs , tend to work with DERs ( Designated Engineering Representatives ) rather than directly with the ACO , as they may have dozens of different DO-178 projects going at one time . EASA Software Certification Guidance on the EASA Software Aspects of Certification can be found in EASA CM - SWCEH - 002 <URL> From that document , Panel 10 seems to be the part of EASA that you would work with , although I have n't found how a new applicant would go about contacting them yet . The EASA panel in charge of software and AEH aspects of certification . This panel includes at least one software and AEH expert ( who is the coordinator ) and , depending on the size of the project , may include additional software and AEH experts . There is also a FAQ page for the application processes with EASA : <URL>
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
The appropriate paragraph of Part 61 of CFR 14 is 61.63 ( emphasis mine , the ' unless ' part does not apply in your case ) : ( c ) Additional aircraft class rating . A person who applies for an additional class rating on a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 2 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 3 ) Need not meet the specified training time requirements prescribed by this part that apply to the pilot certificate for the aircraft class rating sought ; unless , the person only holds a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating and is seeking an airship class rating , then that person must receive the specified training time requirements and possess the appropriate aeronautical experience . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . So , to answer your question , no , you do not need a cross-country , you do not need any solo time in a multiengine airplane , either . All you need is a sign off from your instructor .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
I 'll take a stab at this one , though I ca n't guarantee the correctness of my interpretation ( the regs do n't seem exactly clear on the subject - at least not to me , so there 's a lot more " inference " here than I 'd normally be comfortable with ) . In most cases under Part 91 the only requirement to be a " crewmember " is that the pilot in command says you 're a crewmember -- i.e. the PIC determines that a person is qualified to perform a specific duty and designates them to perform it . In the absence of anything more specific this is the only requirement I can turn up ( and it 's an inferred requirement - I did n't find anything specifically stating this , but <URL> strongly implies that it 's the correct interpretation . There 's also a <URL> which talks a little about who is a " crewmember " for purposes of riding in jumpseats that are placarded " For Crew Use Only " . That interpretation is based on Part 135 , but could be logically extended to Part 91 ( and possibly some 121 ) operations too ) . There are frequently more specific requirements though , particularly for positions that are important to flight operations . For example if you buy yourself a nice shiny <URL> to duplicate Amelia Earhart 's trip under Part 91 rules you still can not simply designate someone off the street to be the Flight Navigator : <URL> , and someone acting as the flight navigator would need to meet those requirements . There are also more stringent requirements that are imposed for Part 121 and 135 operators . For example they ca n't simply designate a person as a flight attendant based on the PIC 's determination that they are qualified : There are requirements for filling that crew position which must be met ( <URL> &amp; <URL> respectively , and possibly other regulations ) .
The FAA defines several different types of aircraft , which have different applicable regulations . For fixed-wing aircraft , airworthiness for normal , utility , acrobatic , and commuter categories is covered in <URL> . Note : Seat number excludes pilot seats . Weights are maximum certificated takeoff weights . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Utility category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Normal category , plus : Spins ( if approved for the particular type of airplane ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar maneuvers , angle of bank can be more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees Acrobatic category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Anything not prohibited due to flight tests Commuter category Seats : 19 or less Weight : 19,000 lb or less Engines : 2 or more Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Except for commuter category , airplanes may be type certificated in more than one category if the requirements of each requested category are met . Beyond commuter category , there is the <URL> . Multi-engine airplanes satisfying either of the below requirements must be certified in this category . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . Transport category Seats : 20 or more Weight : more than 19,000 lb For rotorcraft , there are two main categories : normal and transport . Airworthiness for the normal category is covered in <URL> . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 7,000 lb or less Multi-engine rotorcraft satisfying these conditions may be certified under transport Category A ( see below ) if they satisfy certain conditions . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . There are sub-categories here as well . Transport category Category A Seats : 10 or more Weight : more than 20,000 lb Category B Seats : 9 or less Weight : 20,000 lb or less If a rotorcraft only satisfies one of the requirements for Category A , it may be certificated under Category B with certain additional requirements . A multiengine rotorcraft may be type certificated as both Category A and Category B with appropriate and different operating limitations for each category . There is also a <URL> category covered in <URL> . A balloon is a lighter-than-air aircraft that is not engine driven , and that sustains flight through the use of either gas buoyancy or an airborne heater . Part 21 addresses the certification process itself , and includes special types of certificates for other aircraft . <URL> Power sources allowed : None Single naturally aspirated engine ( stall speed 61 kt or less ) Rotorcraft with 6 lb per square foot main rotor discs loading limitation ( sea level standard day ) Weight : 2,700 lb or less ( seaplanes 3,375 or less ) Seats : 3 or less Unpressurized The restricted category allows a plane to not meet certain requirements under the normal regulations . The aircraft must meet one of the following conditions : <URL> Requirements of any regular category , except any that are " inappropriate " for the aircraft 's purpose Armed Forces aircraft modified for a special purpose US Armed Forces surplus aircraft can also be certified under one of the below conditions . The FAA has some leeway to waive requirements or add additional ones . <URL> Designed and constructed in the US , satisfies certain regulations Counterpart of previously certified civil aircraft , complies with those regulations Special certificates are issued for cases where the aircraft is not certified under the regular categories . These allow operation of certain aircraft for certain purposes . The experimental certificate is for special cases . Experimental certificates Research and development Showing compliance with regulations Crew training Exhibition Air racing Market surveys Operating amateur-built aircraft Operating primary kit-built aircraft Operating light-sport aircraft The <URL> certificate is for light aircraft that may be operated under special conditions . There are 5 categories of LSA . Light sport certificates Airplanes Gliders Powered parachutes Weight-shift-control aircraft ( commonly called trikes ) Lighter-than-air aircraft ( balloons and airships )
This applies to aircraft just as well as it does to cars . There are little differences between aircraft from the moment they come of the production line , however these are barely observable . Over time the differences become larger . For example , jet engine performance slowly deteriorates until the next overhaul , leading to increased fuel consumption . Another source of differences is permanent deformation of the aircraft due to extreme loads . A well known example of this is the B747 of <URL> that had a permanently bent wing . In airlines flight crew sometimes know that specific airframes have specific characteristics like difficult lateral trim . The flight operations department will observe differences in fuel consumption between airframes of the same model . That can be a reason not to deploy a specific aircraft on long routes . In addition to the wear and tear like causes there are design difference as well between airframes of the same model . This is described well by Terry . A captain once told me she almost aborted an approach in IMC when the radar altimeter did not come up on final . It turned out the RAD ALT display was at a different position on the screen in this particular aircraft . Their fleet had several second hand aircraft with slight cockpit differences which caused confusion all the time .
The most common vehicle seen is the tug . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Tugs are multipurpose tractors that are used to tow around all sorts of things . Several types of equipment are shown in this diagram : <URL> <URL> The tow vehicle at the nose is more commonly referred to as a pushback tug . They come in different sizes . Here is an example : <URL> <URL> The GPU is most often a unit that is towed behind a tug . <URL> <URL> Belt loaders usually can be driven on their own : <URL> <URL> The wide loader is used to put cargo containers in the hold : <URL> <URL> The cabin cleaning truck and galley service truck often have a lift built in : <URL> <URL> Luggage can be brought in baggage carts <URL> <URL> or in cargo containers which are brought to the aircraft on dollies <URL> <URL> Another vehicle often seen is the people mover : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Do pilots using an electronic flight bag need to carry paper charts ?
A EFB is a legal replacement for paper charts and you are not required to carry backup if you are operating as part 91 single engine piston . <URL> is in reference to part 91F ( Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes ) . <URL> is aimed at Part 91 operators , VFR or IFR and states that EFBs can be used in all phases of flight in lieu of paper . A backup data source is suggested , but is not required . Note that this backup can be another electronic device . See <URL> .
I am assuming from your description this is not a permanent part of the aircraft and is just an instrument that will be brought on board . The DO-254 's cited by Porcupine above are authorized under FAR 25.1309 which is only for permanent equipment that are an integral part of the aircraft design , not cargo items . In general , there are no FAA regulations about that kind of equipment , other than hazardous cargo materials ( flammables , lithium batteries , etc ) . Even radios and RF emitters are ok , if the airline company and pilot agree to it . Flight crews sometimes bring their own personal radios on board as backups , for example . The policy about bringing something like this aboard would largely depend on the owner/operator and one might have completely different requirements or reaction than another . Your best bet would be to contact the operator ( airline company ) you want to work with and ask them what their requirements are .
Do stealth airplanes need to limit contrail generation ? Not just stealth aircraft , most military aircraft are required to avoid contrails . Contrails form due to moisture in the aircraft 's exhaust . <URL> is NOT to fly in regions of air that support contrail formation . <URL> which is used by the B-2 stealth bomber uses LIDAR ( light detection and ranging ) to differentiate contrails from clouds and tells the pilot to change his altitude as/when necessary . That being said , it is essential to remember that though contrails are visible to the naked human eye they are NOT visible to Radars . Ergo , until the stealth aircraft is really close ( assuming it is on a SEAD/DEAD mission ) one can not see the contrails and by the time they do , it is too late . Moreover , stealth aircraft generally operate during night when contrails are less visible . Stealth aircraft have low visibility on radar . Not necessarily . VHF radar should be able to detect them at long range . Moreover , RCS of aircraft is a complex phenomenon , depending on many stuff ( frequency , aspect angle , polarization of signal etc ) . You will never find a " static " figure for this .
An InFO ( Information For Operators ) document is an informational document containing recommendations . Quoting directly from <URL> : Much like a <URL> , which contains critical safety information , an Information for Operators ( INFO ) message contains valuable information for operators that should help them meet administrative requirements or certain regulatory requirements with relatively low urgency or impact in safety . INFOs contain information or a combination of information and recommended action to be taken by the respective operators identified in each individual INFO . They are not regulatory changes/obligations ( like ADs ) or formal notices of violation ( administrative actions ) - they 're just a " friendly hint " that the FAA is concerned about something and would like operators to be aware of it and take action if the operator 's analysis determines it to be necessary . If the situation addressed in an InFO or SAFO document does n't improve it may wind up prompting a regulatory change . The InFO and SAFO programs are very similar , so <URL> covering the SAFO program may also be of interest .
I agree , Malaysian MH132 was a Non-Event . If the pilots had any concerns over the slight variation in their routing , they should have mentioned it before they loaded it into the Flight Management System ( FMS ) . I currently fly long haul B777 for a major airline . I ca n't speak for others , but at the airline I work for we do many " gross error checks " . Some are done in flight planning , some during the loading of the FMC , and some are done during the flight . While still in the flight planing area , the Captain and First Officer will look at the total routing in regards to wind , temperature , turbulence , volcanic activity , etc. . Often a call is made to the dispatcher who generated the Operational Flight Plan ( OFP ) to discuss the routing , expected levels of turbulence , and fuel reserves . About 20 % of the time the Captain will request a slight change to the routing or additional fuel be added . A new OFP is then generated and it will be designated " Release 2 " . Both the flight plan route and ICAO flight plan route are printed on the OFP and we compare the two . I have never found an error in the 17 years I have been doing it , but we still do it every time . Once the Captain , FO and augment pilots ALL agree , the OFP is officially accepted and we head to the aircraft . ( up to 4 pilots on Ultra Long Haul flights ) When we get to the aircraft we run though the basic preflight checks , and then the flight plan is downloaded to the FMS using the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System ( ACARS ) digital datalink system . The departure runway and SID is also loaded at this time . Before we " activate " and " execute " the routing , the Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) reads the entire FMC routing and the Pilot Flying ( PF ) compares it to the OFP . After runway takeoff performance data is loaded we then check the " Legs " page of the FMC for a logical sequence of legs . We generally just check to make sure there are no course reversals on the various legs of the route . If there are any user defined waypoints ( Lat/Long waypoints ) we perform bearing and distance checks of the FMC against the OFP . This is done with the the Heading Reference switched to TRUE heading instead of Magnetic for more accurate numbers . These bearing and distance checks are not done for " Named " waypoints , only Lat/Long waypoints . Wind data is then requested and then loaded via ACARS . Next is a check of the FMC distance compared to both the OFP distance and Great Circle Route distance . The FMC distance is almost always somewhere between the OFP distance and GCR distance . This check is one sure way to spot a routing entry error . Finally a check of the FMC and OFP predicted fuel over destination is done . If there is a large difference , it means either the routing or winds were incorrectly entered . Once airborne there are more checks : In the old days before GPS we would check the accuracy of the Inertial Navigation System ( INS ) as we approached the coast for any over water flight . This was usually done using a VOR/DME fix . Once airborne we again check bearing and distance as we approach each user defined waypoint ( Lat/Long waypoint ) . Once past the waypoint by about 5 mins we then plot our current Lat/Long on a plotting chart to insure we are still on course .
Short answer : Sleep aids can not be used this way in the US . FAA regulates the use of such medications with a delay : <URL> : <URL> More on medication advice to medical examiners : <URL> . Only the <URL> ( a <URL> <URL> ) could be used in a practical manner ( not publicly available in France nor likely in many other countries ) . Circadian rhythm What you are referring to has got the scientific name of circadian rhythm ( circa = around , diēs = day ) , which is the subject of an article at SkyBrary : <URL> . About the night flights : Night operations create a host of problems for flight crews . The primary problem is having to work efficiently and safely at a point in time when the work requirements are not in synchrony with circadian rhythms . Under worst-case conditions , crew members must perform demanding tasks during the early morning hours ( 2 am to 6 am ) when their biological functions and performance efficiency are at their lowest level . This problem can not be quickly solved by adaptation of the biological clock . Complete adjustment to night work requires at least 21 night shifts in a row with no days off . Adjustment of the biological clock does not even commence until about 10 days after a shift change . Fatigue Long article about <URL> , about zaleplon : This misalignment of the sleep/wake cycle and endogenous circadian rhythms could be the result of shift lag , jet lag , or attempting sleep at other than the habitual bedtime or at the second circadian dip in the afternoon . For such circumstances , the U.S. Air Force and Army have approved the limited use of temazepam , zolpidem , and zaleplon . These hypnotics can optimize the quality of crew rest in circumstances where sleep is possible , but difficult to obtain . Inflight rest As additional information about sleep management inflight : On a 8-hour flight , usually there will be 3 pilots , and each one will be able to sleep ( outside the flight deck ) . Air France <URL> . Air Canada <URL> <URL>
Non-pilot astronauts are not required to become pilots . They fly in the backseat of T-38 's partially for transportation purposes , and partially for flight regime training . They are called " mission specialists " and since their job does not require piloting skills , there is no reason to train them as such . <URL> says " The T38 is used for flight readiness training to help the astronauts become adjusted to the flight environment , including the g-forces experienced on launch " and that non-pilots fly at least four hours per month in a T-38 . Pilot astronauts fly at least 15 hours per month to maintain proficiency . You can look up whether someone has a US Pilot 's license using the FAA 's <URL> . A quick search turns up several astronauts who have never been licensed . For example , the mission specialists on the final shuttle mission , <URL> and <URL> , are not pilots . That being said , I would n't be surprised if most , if not all , of the non-pilot astronauts got some stick time in a T-38 since it is a trainer with dual controls . Obviously the pilot and I 'm guessing the commander would be airforce pilots In the NASA vocabulary , commander is equivalent to what you would think of as pilot or captain , whereas pilot is equivalent to what you would think of as co-pilot . In the Apollo program , the commander landed the lunar module on the moon , not the " Lunar Module Pilot , " and in the shuttle program , the commander landed the shuttle , not the pilot . So , you are correct that both the commander and pilot must be pilots , and some of them did come from the Air Force , although US Navy was more common , and a few came from the Marine Corps . Almost all of them were test pilots . A few astronauts joined NASA with the qualifications to be pilot-astronauts , but only flew as mission specialists ( for example , <URL> and <URL> ) . I am honestly not sure whether or not NASA allowed them to fly the T-38 's ; however , the only photo evidence I can find shows them in the rear seat , which leads me to believe they were not allowed to fly solo . I have no idea if NASA still uses T-38 's NASA does still use T-38 's because NASA still sees a need for pilot astronauts in the future , and the pilots need a way to maintain flying proficiency . In the <URL> , four out of the eight were test pilots of some sort , although it 's unclear how many will be considered pilot-astronauts . There is <URL> that the number of T-38 's which NASA operates does appear to be shrinking , which is likely a reflection of a reduced astronaut corps size , budget constraints , and the fact that the aircraft fleet is about 50 years old . According to unconfirmed sources ( <URL> ) , the number of NASA T-38 's is expected to be reduced from 32 to 16 by 2015 . Other Space Shuttle-specific aircraft have been retired entirely , such as the Gulfstream II <URL> and the <URL> ( the latter was n't flown by astronauts ) .
The appropriate rules are in <URL> A licensed pilot may not undertake aerobatic flights unless they hold an Aerobatic Rating 40 Hours of Flight Time ( or 120 launches for sailplanes as PIC ) completed after issue of respective license Aerobatic Training course including theoretical knowledge and 5 hours or 20 flights Aerobatics must subsequently be flown in same category aircraft as used for rating No revalidation/renewal requirements Be issued a certificate of satisfactory completion of the instruction for the license endorsement So there is no specific license to be obtained , however there is a specific rating , which is just an endorsement in your logbook . Its not clear from the documents that I 've read that formation flying qualifies as aerobatics . Some other countries do n't consider formation flying an aerobatic operation .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
South African Airways flights to ' less developed ' locations in Africa often carry a mechanic and some spares on board . If there are no suitable repair facilities , supplies or maintenance personnel available at the destination , then their own guy can fix any minor mechanical issues . If there 's a major problem then they would have to fly in additional repair supplies and staff ( and fly out the stranded passengers ) . I found this out on a flight from Johannesberg to Lilongwe ( Malawi ) . A seat was broken in the passenger cabin and SAA 's on-board mechanic was able to fix it after a short delay . The captain explained briefly why he was on board . I assume that other airlines or operators who operate in undeveloped areas would do the same . It 's a lot cheaper to carry a mechanic and a few spares than it is to have an aircraft , crew and passengers stranded . If anything on the <URL> is broken then an airliner is n't airworthy so even a ' minor ' issue can ground it . I guess that the military might do the same for similar reasons , but I have no idea at all about that .
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
From <URL> : Airbus A320 Type Rating The Airbus A320 family of jet airliners consists of five aircraft : the A318 , A319 , A320 , A321 jet airliners and ACJ business jet . Only one type rating is required to fly these Airbus aircraft , as they have similar flight decks . To earn a type rating for these Airbus aircraft requires the completion of a technical course that lasts anywhere from 8 to 12 days depending on your pace . So the answer from a regulatory point would be no additional training . Some airlines might have policies that require a minimal check , probably in a sim .
No , nothing addresses that case . Let 's say you 're 20 minutes out from your destination , and because it 's a clear VFR day you have minimum normal reserves -- roughly an hour of flying ( on 2 engines , at medium-to-low altitude ) . Those reserves are already prescribed for you by FAR 's . Now you lose the engine . How long can you fly ? Until you run out of fuel or the other engine quits -- so in all probability , about that same hour , plus or minus . Different case , you 're over at Atlantic heading to Bermuda or the Azores or Iceland or NYC to the Caribbean , or over the Gulf of Mexico -- not ETOPS but a long ways from anywhere . The fuel on board will be lots more , because you were planning for a much longer flight . ( And again , those fuel requirements are defined elsewhere . ) You now have the added twist of drifting down on one engine to a single-engine ceiling -- you set max continuous thrust on the good motor , and descend at a speed that gives you max range , which probably comes out to a few hundred feet per minute of descent . Back in the flight planning , the check had to be performed that at the worst case , you could lose the motor , drift down , and continue to reach a suitable airfield without needing more gas than you 'd have . But in something like a 737 , the gas you 'll have on-board anyway is almost certainly more than sufficient . But in this latter case , the time you can stay aloft is going to be hours -- way beyond what you had in the first case . So no , the regulations do n't prescribe a time that you have to be able to keep flying after losing one engine . You DO have to be able to keep flying -- that 's important -- and you have to have enough fuel to get to a destination with the one motor shut down . But in terms of a prescribed time , that is n't given in the FAR 's .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
This is a very dated answer now , but for what it 's worth , prior to my retirement in 1999 from a U.S. airline , we did ditching scenarios in 747-100/200 sims during initial training and then occasionally during recurrent training . Proper execution included being on-speed for your weight , nose attitude at touchdown ( 5 degrees up as I remember ) , aircraft configuration ( gear up but I do n't remember the flap setting ) , determination of wave direction if possible , and landing parallel to the wave action . It was a relatively easy scenario for the pilots but a busy scenario for the flight engineer . He had to position valves properly at the right time , including making sure the pressurization outflow valves were closed to prevent fuselage flooding .
There are numerous methods for air-to-ground communications . I may be missing a few , but off the top of my head , here are the ones I can remember : normal VHF comms Operational staff at the airport maintain an operations frequency that you can use just as you would would ATC . The limiting factor here is the requirement of line-of-sight with the ground antenna and this limits range . We could normally raise ops about 30-40 minutes out , at altitude , if someone was actually listening . This is similar to a GA pilot calling unicom to arrange ground services . This method is also used for maintenance at some stations and for talking to fuelers and deicing operators . <URL> This is a selective calling protocol that operates over HF and VHF frequencies . Each participating airplane and ground station ( typically a dispatcher or ATC ) has a code and if you know the code you want to communicate with , you can establish two-way communications with them . To use this in the air required tuning a specific frequency and using a hand-mic with a keypad to dial the ground station code . On the ground I 'm not sure the exact method they use ( phone patch ? ) but when they called us we 'd get an aural " SELCAL " announced by the airplane along with a light to alert us . <URL> This service provides VHF-to-PSTN patches and allows you to call your dispatchers actual phone , medlink , or anyone with a phone you feel like calling . This worked by calling an operator over the normal radios and having them dial a number and connecting us together . Satellite phone Works just like any other satellite phone and use the Iridium network . <URL> This works just like text messaging . Select your recipient , type a message and hit send . You get alerts when messages arrive . The interface I 'm familiar with in the airplane is a program in the FMS with limited pre-set recipients you could contact ( dispatch and perhaps a few others ) . The ACARS software can also be setup to send specific messages to specific stations , e.g. an " In-Range " message which is routed to operations at your destination . From the ground side , this is usually baked into the dispatch flight-following software . Our dispatchers could right click on an airplane , get a menu , pick " text message " and type a message that would be sent to that airplane .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
No real reason other than it keeps people from bugging the flight attendants by asking " how high are we ?? " . It also lets the flight attendants know that the aircraft is at cruise so wo n't be climbing and making the carts harder for them to push around .
end question
start question
Can ailerons be used for pitch change in the event of elevator failure ?
If the ailerons could be moved in the same way on both wings , the linkage between both is broken and they would float up near their maximum negative ( trailing edge up ) deflection angle . Even a hydraulic aileron booster would not help , since here still an interlink between both ailerons exists to keep actuation forces down . Only in a fly-by-wire aircraft with fully powered aileron actuators could the control system be programmed to allow symmetric deflection . The effectivity of such a means of pitch control is very low , and only wing sweep can help to make it useable . Any pitch control input will change lift on the outer wing , and pitching up would mean a loss of lift and result in a plunging motion of the aircraft . If that happens on landing , when the pilot uses to pull the stick to raise the nose gradually , the resulting ground contact will be rather early and bumpy . Pilots of flying wings know this ; they are very careful with their pitch control during a flare . When an <URL> had crashed a couple of years ago because the pilot had forgotten to connect the elevator linkage , <URL> flew to the glider club and demonstrated how to fly the ASW-20 with flaps for pitch control alone . The downside is a much reduced speed range and a high landing speed , because you need to reduce camber in order to pitch up , but it works . Since the flap span is higher than the aileron span , I would strongly recommend to rely on the flaps for pitch control when your elevator stops working if flaps are installed . They also do not need any modification to work as pitch controls since they are rigged to move symmetrically . If the engines are mounted low or high , <URL> . This was used on several occasions to bring an airliner down <URL> . EDIT : Mike Dunlavey insists I should mention flaperons . He is right , they are possible with mechanical linkage only , but you will find them only on wings which have flaps anyway . All modern gliders with flaps will also move the ailerons in sync with the flaps . But they are the worst choice for pitch control . For one , they are on the part of the wing with the smallest chord . Their lift change will go with the smallest pitch moment change of all controls except the rudder , so it would be much better to use the flaps for pitch control . That the ailerons do move with the flaps will have little effect . Besides , well designed flaperons will have less deflection change for a given flap change so the spanwise lift distribution will stay close to the optimum . This will make them even less effective than the flaps . I choose not to mention them to make the answer concise . But I 'm afraid short answers are not appreciated anymore .
I have occasionally asked passengers to do the same thing . I have also asked for window shades to be lowered . The reason is usually because the APU was not working and the ground air conditioning was not doing a good job or was unavailable . Without the APU the aircraft 's airconditioning can not work and engine starting relies on a ground air source to provide air pressure to spin the engines for start up . When using ground air for starting , the ground air conditioning is disconnected first and it takes very little time for the cabin to become uncomfortably warm .
In short : the 24 bit address is critical on the technical layer of Air Traffic Control , but it is not used in the operational level . For identification of aircraft and association to flight plans , the air traffic controllers and the flight data processing systems rely mostly on the Mode A code and the aircraft ID ( call sign ) transmitted by the transponder . The ICAO 24-bit aircraft address is an essential element of the way Mode S radar and TCAS work . Before Mode-S radar , only modes A and C were used by civil ATC secondary radars . Mode A and Mode C are unaddressed ; every transponder receiving a Mode A or Mode C interrogation will reply * . This causes two problems , garbling and FRUIT . Garbling is caused by the overlap of replies from multiple transponders . A transponder replies on 1090 MHz in the from of a number of pulses . For Mode A &amp; C , there are at most 12 pulses between a set of framing pulses . When multiple aircraft reply to the same interrogation , these pulses mix up and it becomes difficult to find out which transponder sent which pulse . This leads to false altitudes or false squawk codes . FRUIT ( False Replies Unsynchronised to Interrogator Transmission ) is caused by replies that are triggered by other radars . When multiple radars operate in an area , transponders can be quite busy and the radar is easily mislead by a reply to another radar . In addition to the timing ( range ) being wrong , the reply can be Mode A ( squawk code ) while the radar interrogated Mode C ( altitude ) . There is no way to see what kind ( A or C ) reply was sent . To overcome these problems of Mode A/C , Mode S was introduced . Mode S is quite different from Mode A/C and requires a more sophisticated radar and transponder . It uses the 24 bit address to distinguish responses from various aircraft and to interrogate specific aircraft . Most Mode S interrogations are addressed ; the interrogation contains the unique 24 bit address of the aircraft it is interrogating . This reduces the probability of garbling since other aircraft will not reply Unaddressed Mode S interrogations will solicit replies that contain the address of interrogator ( radar ) . This prevents FRUIT since the radar can verify that the reply is correctly addressed . Unlike Mode A/C which does not have any error checking , a Mode S reply contains a 24 bit CRC check code . Mode S Altitude and identity ( squawk ) replies have their own identifier so they can be distinguished . Mode S radars can be operated in clusters and coordinate between them who is interrogating which aircraft at which time . This further reduces the message load and garbling / fruit probability . For TCAS , the Mode S address is used to distinguish replies for various aircraft in the vicinity of the own aircraft . The TCAS transponder interrogates omnidirectionally ( in all directions ) and get 's replies from all direction . Again , this is very susceptible to Garbling and FRUIT . Whilst TCAS can work with Mode A/C , for its reliability and coordination of resolution advisories , the 24-bit address is crucial .
No , " in sight " or " visual contact " means seeing the actual traffic visually , with your eyes . When you report " traffic in sight , " then the controllers are allowed to issue a clearance such as " maintain visual separation " or " follow that traffic , cleared visual approach ... " . They ca n't issue those clearances when you only see the traffic on TCAS . In fact , having the traffic on your TCAS display does n't really help them . The only time that I 'll even mention that I have the called traffic on TCAS is in a situation where it may save the controller extra transmissions pointing out the traffic " now at 2 oclock moving to 1 oclock " etc. . If he knows that I 'm getting bearing from TCAS &amp; will call it when I see it , that may save some radio congestion , but until I see the traffic and report it in sight , he ca n't clear me for anything based on visual contact . TCAS is a great tool for collision avoidance &amp; for awareness , but it is n't designed as a " follow that traffic " tool .
Yes , this is possible , as demonstrated in this video from almost 2 years ago : <URL> Each helicopter probably does not weigh more than the woman being lifted . The two helicopters are tilted such that the forces are in equilibrium with no collisions . Both are coordinated as two pilots are flying these by Line-of-Sight .
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
I was wondering how long that it would take for this question to come up . It is the old " pitch - vs - power " airspeed control technique debate that rages throughout the aviation world . There are strong proponents of both techniques ( and they seem to view it almost as a religious debate in that the other side can never be right , no matter what ) , and both sides have good reasons for it ! Instead of saying that one is better than the other , let 's just say that they are both techniques for managing the potential energy of the airplane ( the airspeed that can be traded for altitude and vice-versa ) . In fact , this is how I like to think about it ( and do n't pick a side ) : If you change the pitch of the aircraft without changing power , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Pitch up and you lower the airspeed . Pitch down and you raise the airspeed . If you change the power setting of the aircraft without changing the pitch , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Add power and you raise the airspeed . Reduce power and you lower the airspeed . You can change both at the same time and get various results . You can end up with the same airspeed that you had before . You can end up with a lot more airspeed . You can end up with a lot less airspeed . Most often you need to change both at the same time in order to properly manage your airspeed . So basically it comes down to what you want to accomplish . If you need to change the airspeed you have two ways to do it , but used individually each comes with a side-effect . In some situations this may be okay or even desirable , but you need to be aware of what your actions are going to accomplish . Let 's look at a specific example : Sometimes , especially on an instrument approach , you want to maintain your current airspeed while changing your vertical speed . Let 's say that you are a little high on the glideslope . If you simply pitch down to recapture the glideslope , you will gain airspeed but will recapture it quickly . If you simply reduce the power to recapture the glideslope , you will lose airspeed but it will take longer than using pitch . If you want to maintain your airspeed while recapturing the glideslope ( typical on an instrument approach ) then you would pitch down and reduce power at the same time , and when you recapture the glideslope you will pitch back up to maintain it and add power to maintain your current airspeed .
The specific reasons may be specific to each propeller/engine combination , but in general it seems to be related to stresses . According to this <URL> on page 2-2 : Stabilized ground operation between 400 and 1,150 propeller RPM is prohibited . Operation between 0 and 400 propeller RPM is permissible only with propeller feathered . STABILIZED GROUND OPERATION WITHIN THE PROPELLER RESTRICTED RPM RANGE CAN GENERATE HIGH PROPELLER STRESSES AND RESULT IN PROPELLER FAILURE AND LOSS OF CONTROL OF THE AIRCRAFT . This is probably due to the frequency of the aerodynamic forces at those RPM 's resonating with the frequency of the propeller , and getting amplified to unsafe stress levels . This is called ground resonance and is also an issue with helicopters . In addition to over-stressing the propeller blades , it can also affect the fatigue life . There is also a discussion in <URL> , and it is mentioned in <URL> . As voretaq7 mentions , fixed-pitch propellers have similar restrictions for similar reasons . Some engines include a damper that removes this restriction by damping out the resonance .
To answer the question as asked , such data is out there , although it may be hard to get . A flight simulator program is probably much easier , although the real answer to the question probably is , the effects of anything other than straight &amp; level flight are probably dwarfed by the effects of DIRECTION of flight coupled with time-of-day ( i.e. is the sun overhead , or low on the horizon to one side or the other , or ahead of or behind the aircraft ) , and the effect of cloud cover . Airlines capture exactly the data being discussed as part of the Flight Data Recorder -- one of the two famous " black box " recorders ( the other being the Cockpit Voice Recorder ) . This data is routinely downloaded by the airlines ' maintenance departments and analyzed as part of Flight Operations Quality Assurance or FOQA programs . They can see roll , pitch , yaw , heading , altitude , position , track , and dozens if not hundreds of other parameters , all on a moment-by-moment basis , and the analysis of this data is used to inform any number of proactive safety efforts . Rather than waiting for an accident , they can see where things are starting to drift away from what 's desired , and take preventative actions . The problem here is that FOQA data is extremely sensitive , and for an outsider to get access to it is probably somewhere between extremely difficult , and absolutely impossible . The next step down from that would be the logged data as has been discussed in the various comments , and I 'm not smart enough on those specifics to add anything useful to what 's already been posted as far as where and how to get those logs . After that , it is possible to record data yourself , with the right equipment ( not cheap ) . Using an iPad with Foreflight and an AHRS unit ( essentially a self-contained INS , with receivers for things like XM satellite weather , GPS , and ADSB , you can record a track log that includes all the parameters mentioned . Here 's the issue : if you 're paying for that equipment and the flight time , you will want to get DATA for your efforts ... so let 's go do STUFF so we have an interesting track log : do some holding , fly a few approaches , maybe a steep turn or a stall series . Because that 's much more interesting DATA ! But the simple fact is that when airplanes are actually being used for anything besides flight training , most of what they 're doing is simple boring straight &amp; level flight , probably on autopilot . Most of the maneuvering happens at the beginning &amp; end of the flight , on the departure and then on the arrival and the approach , and that all happens at lower altitudes where clouds will have the greatest influence how much sun your solar collectors are getting . Up in the 30-to-40-thousand feet range is where most of the cruise flight happens , mostly straight and level , and with most ( though not all ) of the sun-blocking clouds below you . For a realistic estimate of how much solar energy your panels can get , I strongly suspect that you 'll do best with an assumption of straight &amp; level flight , and models of the various possibilities of direction of flight and time-of-day . And combine that with estimates of how cloud cover will affect your ability to collect solar energy ( remembering that plenty of flights happen at night ) . A really accurate log of a particular flight could allow you to calculate to fairly high precision how your received energy would vary over time for that exact flight , but when you want to generalize that out to a large number of operations , you 'll need to look at the factors that influence collection the most , and those will be the variables other than detailed records of roll &amp; pitch .
You can change your address with the FAA online . You do not need to get a new plastic certificate . <URL>
Oddly enough , the FARs and the AIM do not define these terms even though they use them frequently , but it is in the <URL> ( see below ) . This is one of those areas that I 've never really been given specific training on and I guess figured that I would " know it when I saw it " . The definitions kind of support that since they leave it to the discretion of the pilot : EMERGENCY - A distress or an urgency condition . DISTRESS ( MAYDAY ) - A condition of being threatened by serious and/or imminent danger and of requiring immediate assistance . URGENCY ( PAN-PAN ) - A condition of being concerned about safety and of requiring timely but not immediate assistance ; a potential distress condition . Flight Safety released a report titled <URL> which includes a quote from an official in which she says that there is a misconception among some pilots about the difference between declaring mayday and pan-pan : I have observed many cases where a mayday is given when pan-pan should be sufficient . Many pilots do not realize that this distinction is ATC 's way of prioritizing two or more aircraft with an emergency at the same time . She also included some of the most important factors to consider when deciding to declare an emergency : Is the aircraft in immediate danger ? Does the aircraft require immediate assistance ? Will the aircraft require priority handling during the approach or during any other phase of flight ? Will the aircraft need special assistance on the ground ? Does the crew need any assistance from other parties ? The most important thing though is not whether you declare exactly the right kind of emergency , but that you actually let them know when you need help . Do n't forget that you can also change your mind . If you declared an Urgency condition and decide that you need more assistance/priority , you can always " upgrade " it to a Distress , and vice-versa .
No , fiddling with your altimeter setting does n't change the airspace you are flying in . So you ca n't bust the class A above 18 000 ft by changing the setting . The top and bottom boundaries of the airspace are defined by applying the altimeter setting local to that airspace . Conversely , and perhaps more important , you ca n't weasel out of a busted airspace by quickly changing your altimeter setting . Your transponder sends your altitude as if your altimeter was set to 1013.25 hPA / 29.92 inHg , regardless of what your actual setting is . The ATC system will do the conversion according to their setting , so you ca n't fool them . Note that the altitude resolution of your transponder is either 100 feet ( Mode C ) or 25 feet ( Mode S with appropriate altimeter encoder ) , so 1 feet difference does n't really matter .
One of the biggest differences that you will see between the flaps on the two is that the NG ( photo on the right ) has continuous span flaps while the classic has split inboard and outboard flaps . <URL> <URL> Combined with the longer wing on the NG , this gives the new flaps more surface area , so they do n't need to be quite as effective . Overall , the NG actually has better performance than the classic , mainly because of the redesigned wing which is 25 % larger and has winglets ; both of which help out . Even though the performance is better with comparable triple-slotted flaps , the double-slotted flaps are lighter ( which helps with overall aircraft performance ) and have fewer moving parts . This makes them more reliable and they require less maintenance . Most new aircraft designs are moving to either double or even single slotted flaps because of this simpler design and the fact that today 's runways do n't require the extra performance that would be gained by the more complicated flaps . Photo Credits : <URL> <URL>
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
The angle of attack is the angle between the wing ( wing chord to be precise ) and the direction of travel ( undisturbed airflow ) . The angle of pitch is the angle between the main body axis and the horizon . The difference can theoretically be any angle , but during normal flight it will be limited to about 15 degrees . The reason that the angle of attack sensor was inoperative was due to low airspeed . Below 60 knot IAS the indication is unreliable and therefore the indicator is inhibited . This also inhibits the stall warning . This lead to the confusing situation that lowering the nose to correct the stall increased the airspeed beyond 60 knots , thereby reactivating the stall warning .
The question you 're asking roughly translates to . The answer is " About 15-20 seconds , once the pressure bleeds off . " The FAA has a handy table for this : From Chapter 16 of the Pilot Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge . <URL> , or <URL> The Time of Useful Consciousness will vary depending on personal physiological factors ( e.g. if you 're a smoker your blood does n't oxygenate as well - you will probably have less time . If you 're a mountain climber in excellent shape and used to breathing rarified air on your climbs you 'll probably have a little more time ) . In the case of a non-explosive decompression ( say a pressurization system failure ) you 'll probably have more time than this from the start of the event to the point where everyone is unconscious : the cabin pressure will take time to bleed off . Whether that time is seconds or minutes depends on the nature of the leak . Presumably while the pressure is bleeding off the aircraft 's systems will complain about the loss of cabin pressure and give the pilots a chance to address the problem ( fix the pressurization system or descend to a safe altitude ) . Unfortunately the effects of hypoxia can start setting in before the crew realizes what 's going on ( which is one of the contributing factors in the loss of <URL> , which suffered just this kind of gradual depressurization ) .
The main reason for having variable incidence wing in the F-8 was that it allowed the production of increased lift due to a greater angle of attack without reducing pilot visibility as the fuselage stayed level . For aircraft with high angle of attack TO/landings ( like delta winged aircraft ) , pilot visibility is a problem in low speed landings , as the nose will obstruct the runway ( or carrier , for that matter ) in extreme cases . There are two ways to solve this problem : Droop the nose , like the Concorde or Make the wings variable incidence , like the F-8 . The first option is usually preferred ( same thing was done in Tu-144 ) as the weight penalty is ( significantly ) less . However , this was n't possible in the F-8 as the engine air intake was in the nose ; so the incidence of wings was changed . The variable incidence wing had the added advantage of reducing the length of landing gear required and improved the low speed characteristics . In case of Martin XB-51 , the variable incidence wings were used to reduce take off distance as it was expected to be operated from forward airfields .
Answer is yes , good eye . From the A380 flight crew manual : <URL> You can <URL> .
The difference between both values is the energy set free when the water created by the combustion process condenses . Use the lower heat value for jet engine calculations . The water in a jet engine leaves it as vapor , and the vaporisation heat is lost for propulsion .
You basically have the answer right inside of the question ( as was mentioned in the comments ) . In order to make the plane pitch up and down you have the ailerons move up or down in unison ( usually called an <URL> at that point , again , as noted in comments . ) Here 's a handy diagram to give you some idea of what we 're on about : <URL> In the second image the movement of both elevons upwards will pitch the aircraft up as well . And the elevons going in opposite directions , like the last image , will cause the plane to roll ( in this case to the left . ) There are more complex maneuvers as well , like pitching and rolling at the same time . These maneuvers are simply managed by differential deflections of the elevons . Meaning , if you want to come up and to the left you could leave the right elevon neutral ( ish ) and pitch the left elevon upwards . This would push down the left wing , rolling you to the left , and pitch the nose up as well .
end question
start question
Can I model propellers used in electric aircraft the same way as I model RC quadcopter drones ?
The thrust T of a rotor can be given as : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 $ $ With : $ \ rho $ = air density [ 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ ] at sea level $ A$ = area of the rotor disc [ m $ ^ 2 $ ] $ \ omega $ = angular speed of the rotor [ rad/s ] $ C_T $ = thrust coefficient . $ C_T $ depends on the configuration of the rotor : blade pitch , number of blades , blade chord etc. . It can range from 0 to 0.01 , without knowing more about the config of your rotor we can take the average at 0.005 the value 0.001 , see update below . The torque Q follows a similar format : $ $ Q = C_Q \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 \ cdot R $ $ For a given $ C_T $ , we can look up $ C_q $ in the following figure , valid for a propeller solidity of 0.1 . For a $ C_T $ of 0.005 we find a $ C_Q $ ( = $ C_P $ ! ) of 0.0004 , for the updated $ C_T $ of 0.001 the $ C_Q $ = 0.00015 <URL> <URL> : Update The above $ C_T $ is valid for helicopter rotors . For quadcopters with their much smaller rotors , induced power losses , tip losses etc are much higher . <URL> gives a detailed discussion on $ C_T $ of small rotors , although a direct comparison can not be made since they use a different definition of $ C_T $ . With this in mind , and using the definition of $ C_T $ as above , a better choice for $ C_T $ would be 0.001 , and the corresponding $ C_Q $ is 0.00015 .
The license they are talking about is an FAA license issues on the basis of your Italian one , provided that license is up to an FAA standard . See @Pondlife 's answer for some links , and here 's one on the <URL> . The FAA license would be restricted to the privileges of your Italian one . For example , if you do not have privileges to fly at night on your Italian license then you would not be able to fly at night . If your Italian license defines the day as being shorter than the FAA you 'd have to use the Italian definition . To get one you have to show up in person at an FSDO unless the Italian FAA equivalent has an agreement in place where they can validate identity , etc. .
There are quite a lot of differences , some more subtle than others , but I tend to find this is the best angle for identification : the side view . Although as we 'll see later in this answer , the top/bottom view has a fairly obvious difference , and there 's a clue that we can use to identify from the front or rear <URL> So what are you looking at ? On the left is the Hurricane . It 's slightly larger than the Spitfire , although that 's not always a great help from distance . Perhaps more usefully , the fuselage is fundamentally different shape : I 'll elaborate on this in several areas where we can directly compare . Firstly , the rear fuselage . At first glance the two are very similar , but the Hurricane has a much more pronounced " drop " to the tail , while the Spitfire 's is a " rise " . What do I mean by that ? Follow the line of the top of the cockpit canopy : the Hurricane 's fuselage behind the canopy drops away , while the bottom of the fuselage is relatively flat . On the Spitfire , it 's reversed - the top of the fuselage follows the line of the canopy , while the bottom comes up to meet it . It 's a subtle difference at first glance , but once you 've seen it once it 's a very clear distinction . When looking at the Hurricane 's rear fuselage , it almost appears to have a " dog leg " , where the rearmost area drops in relation to the middle of the aircraft . The Spitfire 's follows a much more continuous line The Spitfire is also clearly much more sleek - it 's a " pencil " shaped fuselage , long and thin and curvy . The Hurricane is more blunt and " solid " . Other differences ? Look at the tail . The Spitfire 's is relatively small and curves upward from the top of the fuselage in a smooth curve , while the Hurricane 's comes off at a sharper angle . Similarly the Hurricane 's horizontal stabilizer is higher - almost in line with the top of the fuselage . The Engine cowling shape , as with the cockpit , is different : where again the Spitfire 's continues a nearly straight line from the bottom of the cockpit , the Hurricane 's has a distinct curve . If you can get closer , you will also note that the Hurricane 's fuselage is almost " ridged " - it 's a metal frame with a fabric covering , and that gives it a bumpy appearance , vaguely visible on the above photo . <URL> What about if you ca n't get a side view , though ? Here 's the Spitfire ( below ) and Hurricane ( above ) from the front ... but you can see the same from the rear Well from the front , there 's a single very nice clue under the fuselage : the radiator housing : that box-like structure hanging from the bottom of the plane . The Hurricane has one , and it 's on the centre of the fuselage . The Spitfire 's is not , it 's under the right wing . On some later models , there are two , one under each wing . The next photo is included mostly for the wing shape , but the aforementioned radiator boxes are visible too : from this , we can tell the Spitfire is a relatively late war model : a Mk IX ( 9 ) onward : although there are other subtle clues that suggest this is a much later model ... the 5 bladed propeller indicates a Griffon engine , so a Mk XIV ( 14 ) or later . Anyway , we can see the Hurricane 's single centre radiator , and the Spitfire with one under each wing <URL> And finally , how about the bottom ? Well , the Spitfire 's wing is extremely distinctive : it has an " Elliptical " wing , shared with only one or two other aircraft . Once you can recognise the Elliptical wing , you can recognise the Spitfire very easily in flight . The Spitfire 's wing , particularly the trailing edge , is very curved compared to most other contemporary aircraft . The Hurricane 's wings are much more conventionally shaped , with both leading and trailing edges being straight ( a trait shared with aircraft like the Typhoon/Tempest , P-51 , Me109 , A6M " Zero " and most other aircraft from the WW2 era ) <URL> Late War Spitfires ( the above is a Mk 22 ) are even more distinctive : they have a " bubble " canopy that protrudes entirely from the fuselage .
Depending on how much detail you want , you can read the <URL> , which is the most recent and highest-level ruling on general aviation flightsharing . The Supreme Court <URL> . Essentially , <URL> wanted to let pilots find passengers willing to share the costs of a flight . They emphasized repeatedly that all decisions about if and when to fly , the route to take etc. would be made by the pilot , not the passengers . The FAA said that by advertising for passengers , pilots would be <URL> , which makes it a commercial operation . There were plenty of arguments on both sides , but ultimately the courts decided that the FAA was acting consistently with previous decisions and regulations . Flytenow made three legal arguments , all of which were <URL> on appeal : Advertising for passengers is protected free speech under <URL> Private pilots ' <URL> under the Fourteenth Amendment are infringed if they ca n't share costs The FAA 's ruling was vague But if you read the <URL> , you can see that the court basically agreed with the FAA that protecting passengers justifies limiting what private pilots can do : The FAA 's distinction between pilots offering expense-sharing services on line to a wide audience and those offering expense-sharing services to a limited group is justified : holding out to the public creates the risk that unsuspecting passengers , under the impression that the service and its pilots lawfully offer common carriage , will contract with pilots who in fact lack the experience and credentials of commercial pilots . To put it even more simply , the basic difference between Uber and Flytenow is that the FAA believes that the general public can identify a bad driver , but not a bad pilot . That 's the fundamental reason for having commercial licenses , part 135 etc. .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
The NTSB actually <URL> the use of exterior cameras to the FAA in 2012 . It appears to be <URL> a <URL> , but it looks like you should contact your local FSDO for approval of an <URL> if you 're permanently fixing a camera to a plane . The grey area comes in that if the camera is temporarily attached , you should n't need special approval , but in practicality it could come loose and damage the plane . GoPro says this about affixing their cameras to planes : Industrial strength suction cup . Strong enough to pull dents out of a car door or stay attached to an airplane at 200mph + , proven though not endorsed by GoPro per FAA rules . There 's a <URL> where someone asked the FSDO to sign it off as a Minor Alteration , and it was determined that a short logbook entry would suffice : Temporarily installed a GoPro camera mounted to a standard inspection panel on ( Left/Right ) lower wing in place of the standard inspection panel . There are no electrical connections associated with this installation . This is a minor alteration as it has no appreciable effect on performance , flight characteristics , or other qualities affecting airworthiness ( refer to FAR 1.1 Major Alteration and FAR 21.93 ) . A net weight change of 9 oz is incurred with the temporary installation ; therefore , the weight and balance change is negligible ( refer to AC 43.13 1B , 10-2 ( c ) ) .
<URL> offers a Part 103 legal trike , and at least as of two years ago , had a flying prototype of a more conventional designed single-seat Part 103 legal ultralight . Realistically , given the weights of engines and batteries compared to the weights of the Rotax or similar engines usually used on ultralights , it 's possible to turn many Part 103 designs into electric power , provided you 're willing to do the engineering work yourself . For a fairly extreme example , see <URL> , a twin electric motor conversion of the Lazair ultralight that retains its Part 103 status .
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
I do n't think the information is accessible on a public website . According to the <URL> the Luftfahrtbundesamt ( LBA , the German Civil Aviation Authorities ) can not publish the information for data protection law reasons . On their <URL> ( in German ) they state that they do release information to members of the public at a fee ( they love that here ) . A little bit of link-clicking later you will find that you have to pay 40 euros . I am not sure whether they can release the name of the owner . The law ( Luftverkehrsgesetz ) governing the information in the register can be found <URL> .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
<URL> has a list of the various transponder codes and what they are used for , which will give you an idea of what the problem is . Unless there is an actual aircraft incident or accident which requires the FAA to investigate though , you wo n't be able to find a record of it . In fact , pilots are n't even required to file a report unless requested , and those do n't go into a public database . For actual incidents or accidents , you can look at the NTSB <URL> . For pilot reports to the NASA ASRS self-reporting safety system , you can <URL> . If the pilot filed a report then you will see it show up there . Commonly used emergency codes are : 7500 - Hijack Code 7600 - Loss of Radio Communications Code 7700 - Emergency Code Also , some countries use the code 7000 for VFR traffic ( which is not an emergency code ) , but the US uses 1200 instead .
The regulatory bodies are <URL> in defining a regulation for that . Because there are first officers who do not hold an <URL> . The airlines would need to add an extra flight member for that rare situation . Instead , it 's up to each airline 's SOP when it comes to <URL> . There are various assertiveness training models , <URL> are PACE , and CUS . Probe-Alert-Challenge-Emergency Concerned-Uncomfortable-Safety Facing battery depletion following an electrical failure , here 's <URL> for what the last step of PACE could have been like on <URL> : Captain , if you do n't immediately reverse course and get back to night VFR conditions , I must take over control of the airplane . I can not allow you to subject the passengers to such an unnecessary and high risk of certain death . Under these conditions , it is my duty and responsibility to relieve you of your command . Or , it can be much shorter when there 's no time , such as yelling , " I have control , " and pressing the TO/GA to initiate a go-around , for example . Some airlines <URL> , i.e. , " I 've mentioned my concern once , this will be the second and final time , <URL> . "
In the same way than an aircraft will build static charge on the wings from friction with the air , the same thing can happen with helicopters with fast moving blades . This effect is also amplified by moisture in the air . The issue I believe here is that it is hard to discharge the helicopter entirely - there will also be a little bit of ' residue ' charge left . Here 's a photo of the US army discharging a helicopter while wearing insulating gloves , proving that this is evidently a concern : <URL>
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
ICAO has defined in their Annexes that English is only one of the available langauges to ICAO and that ATS should either use the language specified in the country 's AIP or use English . 1.2.9 Language proficiency 1.2.9.1 Aeroplane , airship , helicopter and powered-lift pilots , air traffic controllers and aeronautical station operators shall demonstrate the ability to speak and understand the language used for radiotelephony communications to the level specified in the language proficiency requirements in Appendix 1 . Note 2 . -- The provisions of 1.2.9 refer to Annex 10 , Volume II , Chapter 5 , whereby the language used for radiotelephony communications may be the language normally used by the station on the ground or English . In practice , therefore , there will be situations whereby flight crew members will only need to speak the language normally used by the station on the ground . Personally , additional to my proficiency level in English , I also hold a Level 6 language proficiency German in my pilot 's license . Below is a screenshot of the Aerodrome Description for LEBL/Barcelona , taken from Spain 's AIP . You see that ES/EN is listed as available languages . <URL> If you are looking for Spanish Phraseology , you can find it with <URL> .
Generally speaking you continue your climb after rotation although this will depend on the runway , runway conditions and airport procedures . <URL> : In some cases if you are leaving from a grass strip ( still technically a runway ) you will go for your soft field take off maneuver . In this case you will actually pop the plane off the ground into ground effect as soon as you can ( you will be flying at this point ) . Then build up speed in ground effect ( at a level attitude so you can see the runway fine ) then begin your climb out when you have sufficient speed at a climb attitude . <URL> : If the runway is short ( or there is an obstacle to clear ) you will execute your short field maneuvers . In this case you will take off with 1 notches of flaps . Gun the engine but hold the breaks and let the prop spin up . Then as soon as you hit rotation speed pull back to your best angle of climb . Then when you have cleared your obstacle you can level it out to a normal climb t ( best rate or what ever you planed for ) . In this case clearing the obstacle may be more important than strictly maintaining the runway heading ( depending on where the obstacle is ) . In this maneuver you will focus on your airspeed ( to keep from stalling ) as well as your attitude indicator and your heading indicator to keep as on course as possible . Air Port Procedures : Some airports have special procedures for departing because of obstacles , air spaces , noise abatements etc. . For example I fly out of DYL and they have a procedure on runway 23 that calls for a turn to 250 and climb out to 1200 ft before executing any other turns or maneuvers . Once I have cleared the trees I will usually begin my turn . Generally speaking you fly the runway heading after you have rotated and you do this using the heading indicator NOT the compass . Since you are in accelerated climbing flight your compass is inaccurate .
Even without instrument error , IAS does not equal CAS . This because there are two kinds of errors that make up the difference between Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) and Calibrated Airspeed ( CAS ) Installation error Instrument error Installation error is basically a pressure error . Airspeed measurement is a measure of dynamic pressure of the undisturbed airflow . When the pitot tube is not placed directly into undisturbed airflow the IAS will not equal the CAS . Another source of installation error are leaks in the pitot system . Instrument error is the error introduced by ASI itself by transforming the pressure to a speed indication . For example calibration errors of the pressure sensor or excessive friction in the mechanical drive system of the dial fall into this category . The POH in your example assumes no Instrument error , but is corrected for installation error . An implicit assumption is made that there are no leaks in the system , so the POH corrects for airflow disturbances . That is why some aircraft have different tables for different configurations ; the configurations affect the airflow around the pitot tube . In aircraft equipped with electronic Air Data Computers ( ADC 's ) the installation error is sometimes automatically corrected by making use of angle of attack sensors , electronic configuration information and lookup tables .
In the USA , ADS-B requires a WAAS position source . A Garmin 530W can be used , but not a 530 . Here 's a <URL> of FAA certified equipment needed for ADS-B . I hope that helps .
It 's partly inherent in the way things scale . If you double the length of the model , then the wing area ( length times width ) increases by a factor of 4 , but the weight and volume ( length times width times height ) will increase by a factor of 8 ... so doubling the size means halving the weight-to-lift ratio . In the most extreme cases , a tiny model will blow away on a puff of wind , and a huge model ( bigger than the real plane ) ca n't take off at all . I suppose you might theoretically try to make small models harder to fly , by adding extra weight . The above is theoretically true but maybe nonsense in practice : it assumes that structural materials become thinner when the model is scaled , in reality the structure is n't even the same material . So let 's look at it another way : A full-scale A380 weighs let 's say 500 tons , length about 70 metres . Decrease that to 1 metre model and the surface area has decreased by ( 70x70 =) 5000 . So for the model to have the same weight-to-area as the full-scale plane , it would need to weigh ( 500 tons / 5000 =) 100 kg . Your 1 metre model presumably weighs much less than 100 kg , therefore it has much less weight-to-area ratio . QED . It 's also important to consider the <URL> , which depends on the air 's viscosity and density , and on the size and speed of the model . The Reynolds number affects turbulence , which is very important to a wing 's lift ( for an example of how even a tiny change has a large effect , see <URL> ) . To get the right Reynolds number for a small model you must increase the density ( e.g. pressure ) of the air , or increase its speed . But given the ordinary speed of aircraft , you could n't increase ( scale up ) the air speed because it would become super-sonic , which would change the scenario . Based on <URL> , and the comments below it , I think that a 1-metre model of a 70-metre A380 ( so a scale of 70:1 ) might behave like the full-scale model if it were flown under the following conditions : air density is scaled up , so 70 atmospheres of air pressure lift and drag are scaled down , so : weight of the model is 7 tons ( instead of 500 tons ) thrust of the model is 4,000 lb ( instead of 300,000 lbs ) , i.e. about 2 tons air speed is realistic ( e.g. 150 knots to take off ) Obviously this would be quite unusual for a model airplane1 . 1Air liquifies at 60 atmospheres ; and the model would need a specific density of about 100 , i.e. 5 times heavier than gold or uranium ) .
end question
start question
Has the FAA ever granted anybody a license honoris causa ?
It 's an interesting question , and <URL> they did award one to the guy who designed the current FAA license card : The FAA awarded Dahlvang his own ( honorary ) certificate , nicely framed with a gold seal . But it does n't say what 's printed on that certificate and I assume it is n't actually valid for flight . If you give someone a real pilot 's license you give them the authority to operate an aircraft and I ca n't imagine the FAA handing out licenses to unqualified people . Orville Wright did get an honorary certificate , as did other ' old-timers ' , but that pre-dates the FAA and again it is n't clear if they were ' real ' certificates or not : <URL> <URL> I do n't know if that really answers the question , but anyway in practical terms I think it 's probably a lot easier for the FAA to come up with a suitably impressive but legally worthless certificate rather than give someone a real one and deal with the legal issues involved in breaking their own rules and possibly federal law .
The Flight Standards Information Management System , created by <URL> , is the source of all information relating to aviation safety inspector job tasks . It 's about 8,000 pages worth of ( non-regulatory ) guidance and policy helping FAA Inspectors to do their job properly . It 's an electronic-only document , which can be found at <URL> , or by visiting the <URL> and entering " 8900 " in the search box at the top right . There 's all kinds of good stuff in there , such as : <URL> <URL> <URL> And lots more ! FSIMS is open to the general public - if you want to know what an inspector does day in and day out ( or what to expect when you meet one ) , FSIMS is the one-stop-shopping location for the answers to all your questions .
In this experiment to observe a deliberate airliner crash <URL> the crew exited in flight down the tail stairs ...
It 's perfectly legal , but check the Chart Supplement ( or AFD , or instrument approaches ) to see if there are special exceptions for that airport . If it is a non-towered airport and you are n't assigned a runway , you should of course try to use the prevailing runway that is already in use by other traffic in the pattern when it makes sense . Some airports have obstructions in one direction of their runways that make it necessary ( or safer ) to always land or depart in a certain direction . Some runways have a steep incline in one direction , making it preferable to land upslope and depart downslope . ( For example <URL> ) It 's also common for larger airports to have preferred directions for arrival or departures in order to keep the flight volume high , even when the wind prefers other runways . However , that usually relates to operating with intentional crosswinds at an airport that has parallel runways in a primary direction ( allowing them to conduct more simultaneous flight operations ) , but not in the intersecting direction .
There 's no tangible benefit to having a GROL in getting a pilots license of any kind as getting the license generally confers the right to use aircraft radios . In some places you need to get an RT license for aviation as a separate test , however that 's pretty minimal . A GROL is only good for repairing , maintaining , and running certain types of radio stations . An A&amp;P will let you work on airplanes , but it also does not help get a license . An A&amp;P will give you insights into how an airplane works , but you can get those insights without an A&amp;P . Having an A&amp;P and a pilots license might be a different story if you plan to work in remote locations where being able to fix your aircraft when it breaks is useful . It wo n't help you get a flying job in most places .
Well into WWII , quite a few French aircraft had the throttle reversed - with full throttle to the rear . The French also customized the imported aircraft in WWII to this effect . From the book <URL> by Col. John . D. Current : ... Officially designated Curtiss H75-C1 , the aircraft ... had instruments calibrated for the metric system , ... a French style throttle which operated in reverse from U.S. and British aircraft ( full throttle was to the rear rather than to the front ) ... From <URL> about the same aircraft : The Hawk 75A-1 was powered by the Pratt &amp; Whitney R-1830-SC-G engine , with an international rating of 900 hp at 12,000 feet and 950 hp for takeoff . ... A modified seat was fitted to accommodate the French Lemercier back parachute . The throttle operated in the " French fashion " , i.e. in the reverse direction to the throttles of British or US aircraft . Looks like the French <URL> the <URL> too ( though I 'm not absolutely sure about this ) : ... the French were looking for a replacement for their ground attack T-6s . ... The French did however acquire 148 A models that were in storage at Davis-Montham . They then changed the engines , ( removed the R-1300 and installed the R-1820-76A ) , reversed the throttle operation , ( forward is closed aft is open ?? why do this ? ) ... These planes were then used by the French in Algeria from the end of 1960 until the end of the war in July of 1962 . Not only the French , the Italians and Japanese also used reversed throttles , which caused quite a few problems in service , as the <URL> notes : In the brief German use , Veltros had at least five losses by accidents , often caused by the inverted throttle used on Italian aircraft ( In German and Allied fighters the " open throttle " position was forward , not back , and this was the source of several errors ) . The Italians too faced problems with this difference in controls . According to <URL> : In the summer of 1943 at Vicenza airport I made my first acquaintance with the " Gustavo " , a Messerschmitt fighter of the G-6 version . I was among pilots from 23 ° and 150 ° Gruppo Caccia to get first flights in the German plane that had been entering service at the Regia Aeronautica for few months . We had two main difficulties on test taxing at the Vicentine airport . 1 ) The gas throttle had an inverted movement compared to Italian vehicles . [ The Italians like the French used a reversed throttle in their planes . TNi ] 2 ) The Plane had hydraulic pedal brakes instead of pneumatic ones with differential command like on other Italian vehicles .
Based on <URL> , the answer is yes . g. Deactivation means to make a piece of equipment or an instrument unusable to the pilot/crew by preventing its operation Collaring the circuit breaker prevents it from being pushed in , and therefore prevents its operation .
I went poking around the FAA <URL> until I found <URL> , which states : Sec . 139.307 Unpaved areas . ( a ) In a manner authorized by the Administrator , each certificate holder [ must ] maintain and promptly repair the surface of each gravel , turf , or other unpaved runway , taxiway , or loading ramp and parking area on the airport that is available for air carrier use as follows : ... ( b ) FAA Advisory Circulars contain methods and procedures for the maintenance and configuration of unpaved areas that are acceptable to the Administrator . So I went looking for those advisory circulars . There are probably more that I have n't found , but <URL> beginning at page 82 seems to have the sort of thing you 're looking for .
Some airlines do offer rear facing seats in business/first class . However , this is more to save space than for increasing safety . For example , British Airways offers a mix of forward and backward facing seats in its business class . <URL> Source : Forbes.com BAC <URL> offered rear-facing seats while it was in service . ( Note the visible cockpit ) . <URL> Source : airliners.net Armed forces of a number of countries use rear facing seats , like the RAF and USN in their C-2 Greyhounds . <URL> " <URL> " by Camera Operator : PH1 ( AW ) Shawn P. Eklund , USN - US Defense Visual Information Center photo DN-SD-03-16988 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
Yes , the FAA currently offers a lapel pin at the completion of each phase of the <URL> . This " reward " is not automatically awarded or delivered , the WINGS participant must request it . Upon completion of each of a phase , for example Basic , Advanced , or Master , the FAA Safety Team will include the following notice : If you have not already done so , I encourage you to go to your My WINGS page at FAASafety.gov and claim your Team Member Reward -- a beautiful set of wings for your lapel . The pins are sponsored and distributed by AVEMCO , in <URL> with the FAA . The pins are available in at least three finishes : bronze , silver , and gold , and a special <URL> is apparently available . <URL> Source : own work
There 's no separate night rating or endorsement in the US , it 's included in the private pilot flight proficiency requirements ( <URL> ) and the specific required experience is in <URL> : ( 2 ) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part , 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes -- ( i ) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance ; and ( ii ) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport . Some very minimal instrument training is also required , which can be helpful at night : ( 3 ) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments , including straight and level flight , constant airspeed climbs and descents , turns to a heading , recovery from unusual flight attitudes , radio communications , and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight ; That all applies to private pilots ; <URL> may not fly at night . And as David <URL> , there is an exception to the night requirements under <URL> for pilots in Alaska : they can skip the night training but if they do , they ca n't fly at night .
Chicago O'Hare International Airport ( ORD ) today has 8 runways , which is more than any other current airport has . In 2015 14L/32R was closed and 10R/28L was opened , and further <URL> are foreseen . <URL> Beijing Daxing International Airport will be Bejing 's third airport ( planned to open in September 2019 ) . According to <URL> it will have 9 runways . One runway will be reserved for military use . The ninth runway is not visible on public maps and illustrations at this moment . <URL> Denver International Airport ( DEN ) currently has 6 , but the long term master plan foresees 10 runways in total by 2030 , and 12 beyond 2030 . <URL> . ( Fun fact : there are a plenty of <URL> ) Additional runways are not necessarily used to increase ( commercial ) traffic . Runways maybe reserved for different wind directions , to separate different type of planes ( military , general aviation ) , or for noise abatement . This was already discussed better in the other question that you mention . <URL> As an example for the noise abatement , this picture ( from <URL> ) shows a snapshot of active runways at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol . There are 6 runways , of which usually only 2 or 3 are used . The most distant runway ( here in green ) is almost always in use , causing very long taxi times in favour of reducing the noise exposure of nearby residential areas .
Best I can find , within the US , is KDFW with 80,403 ' of total length . Second seems to be KDEN with 76,000 ' . Glanced at KORD , and with mental math it comes up to about 71,000 ' . Most other major airports are well behind all of these , mainly because they do n't have as many long runways as DFW and DEN . Somebody else can consider Russian , Chinese , and Middle Eastern airports -- I do n't have the chart sets handy for those . May be worth converting this to a community wiki answer if any of those places give interesting results .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
Because many copter autopilots are capable of flying a Cat I ILS to 200AGL , and then descending on autopilot into a hover at a pre-determined altitude above the runway . The pilot can then descend down to the runway surface without any forward visibility . The radar altimeter is used to judge distance to the ground . Because of the unique capabilities of helicopters and their autopilots , Cat II and Cat III are superfluous .
The double decker horizontal tail was a popular choice for large biplanes , even into the 1930s . Below is a picture of the <URL> giant airplane and below it a <URL> passenger aircraft from 1931 . <URL> Zeppelin Staaken R VI over Leipzig ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Handley-Page HP42 passenger aircraft ( picture <URL> ) As with the wing , a braced <URL> tail makes for a stiff , lightweight structure . An unbraced biplane tail was also chosen by <URL> for his <URL> , not for weight reasons , but to reduce tail span in order to allow the tail gunner a larger firing arc . The picture below shows a Hannover Cl II . I guess this design comes closest to the requested " sideways H tail " . <URL> Hannover Cl II with raised tail , probably for compass calibration ( picture <URL> ) I have yet to find a monoplane with a biplane tail . Biplane tails vanished together with biplane wings .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
This regulatory oversight is performed by the Civil Aviation Authority of a country . In India , this function is performed by the <URL> ( DGCA-India ) . Typically certification information is available to the public , but only high level information will be given . Searching on the DGCA-India website I found <URL> that lays down the requirements on Cabin Crew Training .
First , one small clarification : ATC does n't offer any services to an aircraft on a VFR flight plan unless you call and request them . <URL> from AOPA has some useful comments : Controllers do n't know anything about your VFR flight plan VFR flight plans are for search and rescue purposes only Even if you call ATC and request flight following , they only enter the destination into their system , not your route ( I assume that 's because your route could be ' follow that river and then that interstate ' ) The key point is that VFR flight plans are recorded and managed by FSS , not ATC . So , does FSS accept whatever they 're given ? I could n't find a direct answer to that question , but the FAA 's <URL> for receiving and handling VFR flight plans ( see Chapter 6 ) do n't include any steps to " validate " the plan ( whatever that would mean anyway ) . Although there 's a lot of detailed , tedious information there so I may have missed something :-) In fact , <URL> implies that no one even looks at the route unless it 's as part of the SAR process : ETA plus one hour Within a half-hour of becoming overdue or at ETA plus one hour , the search is widened by sending an INREQ ( information request ) to flight service facilities along the route ( which is why the route of flight is specified on the flight plan ) . If [ the pilot ] had been on an IFR flight plan , the INREQ would have gone out at ETA plus 30 minutes . The bottom line seems to be that no one really cares about your VFR flight plan unless it 's actually needed to find you . So even if you can enter a nonsense plan , it would n't be a very good idea .
end question
start question
Do modern Terrain awareness and warning system ( TAWS ) have blind spots ?
This answer is only applicable to civil airline type operations . Military systems do have significantly different requirements which I can not address . Quick Answer : No , they do n't have " blind spots " in the sense of areas with no data available . A TAWS system works differently : In the airline I 've worked for , I was " exposed " to Honeywell Mark V EGPWS systems , but I assume that other systems are similar . These systems have a world-wide terrain database . That database and the algorithms take a normal terrain clearance into account as well as the performance of the aircraft . " Holes " or " Corridors " are " cut " into this " terrain clearance carpet " to avoid nuisance warnings when an aircraft needs to descent below the normal margins . I.e. during landing and takeoff . So , these aircraft can safely operate world-wide unless there are new mountains growing ( which actually happens with volcanos ) or large man-made obstacles are built . As with all databases on board of an aircraft , they are updated on a regular basis . Except for <URL> , I was not able to find an awful lot of information from manufacturers . <URL>
RTCA documents are not FAA documents , although the FAA is usually a member of the Special Committee that creates the documents . If an example is to be added , it is the decision of the SC , not of the FAA . The reason that no examples are given is that the recommendation is clear by itself . A good V&amp;V engineer will read this recommendation and use his skill , experience and creativity to find an other acceptable means to validate the software requirements that can not be validated in a realistic environment . This alternative means is then documented in the SVP . Giving an example is not helpful at all , since the solution will depend completely on the software under test and the nature of the requirements . If the hardware is not available , an emulator may be the solution . In other cases artificial test inputs have to be generated , because failing a test in a realistic environment may prove to be catastrophic .
Each airborne flight has only one flightplan , which was submitted for that particular flight . The routing is embedded into that flightplan and only that one routing is valid for that flight . In case the routing is no longer available for the next flight due to airspace closure via NOTAM or airways being restricted by time of flight / day of flight , another routing will be used for that flight and submitted in the flightplan . In case the routing needs to be changed for an already airborne flight , a new IFR clearance is read to the crew en-route , which alters the existing flightplan . Alternate routings are usually managed by the airline 's dispatch / planning centre and the best routing for a specific flight is created by the dispatchers , taking into account weather , NOTAMS , restrictions and many other factors . En-route changes to a flightplan are made by ATC units and their data processing centres , if an impromptu change needs to be made due to airspace closures or other restrictions coming into effect which were unforseen .
The most relevant data I could find was located <URL> , in a study on " In-flight cabin smoke control " . In the abstract , they stated that Tests on a Boeing 757 , modified to allow smoke venting out through the top of the cabin , showed that the buoyant smoke front moved at 0.46 m/s ( 1.5 ft/sec ) with and 0.27 m/sec ( 0.9 ft/sec ) against , the axial ventilation airflow . Flight tests in a modified Boeing 727 showed that a ceiling level counterflow of about 0.55 m/sec ( 1.8 ft/sec ) was required to arrest the forward movement of buoyant smoke . A design goal of 0.61 m/s ( 2ft/sec ) axial cabin flow would require a flow rate of 99m3/min ( 3500ft ^ 3/min ) in a furnished Boeing 757 . The current maximum fresh air cabin ventilation flow is 78m ^ 3/min ( 2756 ft ^ 3/min ) . In short , during continuous generation of smoke , cabin air will not be recirculated quickly enough to stop smoke from filling the cabin ; however , if the smoke production is temporary , then it should dissipate quickly ( time of course depends on the size of the cabin and the amount of smoke produced ) . On page 2 of this <URL> , a discussion of airflow occurs and contained this image , showing circulation patterns on wide-body airliners . A linked study on that same page noted that . The paper goes on to provide more diagrams of airflow and comparisons of various effectiveness if you 're interested . Boeing has a fairly detailed summary of their cabin airflow <URL> . It says : Inside the cabin , the air flows in a generally circular patterns and exits through floor grilles on either side of the cabin and on airplanes with overhead recirculation , the air may exit through the overhead . The exiting air goes below the cabin floor into the lower lobe of the fuselage . So at least on most Boeing planes , air exits at your feet , though it can exit at the ceiling . Airbus also has a page <URL> , but with much less detail . Airbus claims a complete recirculation every 2 to 3 minutes , while Boeing merely states airflow is continuous . The article linked below says in general , airplane recirculation occurs aproximately 20 circulations per hour . An <URL> on cabin air states that to pick up a sickness , you need to be close , . The article goes on to say that : The aircraft is divided into ventilation segments of three to seven rows ; you share air only with passengers in your segment . So presumably if there were smoke , it would be captured in a small area were it not too pervasive .
Some modern airliners have a place where the flight number can be displayed on the cockpit displays . This information can be entered off the dispatch paperwork when setting up the flight plan , and is displayed throughout the flight for easy reference . For example , you can make out " DLH463 " on the screen at the bottom right of <URL> , corresponding to Lufthansa flight 463 . The Boeing 787 <URL> : The two outboard displays are a fixed format that provides primary flight display information combined with an " auxiliary " display that consolidates frequently referenced information for the crew , such as flight number , each pilot 's microphone-selected radio and its frequency , and transponder code . You can see this on <URL> at the top of the leftmost monitor : " FLT - > BAW787 " ( Photos not embedded due to licensing restrictions . )
Many aircraft were certified to CAR standards . Those aircraft still have to meet those standard . Even a brand new aircraft off the line today , that is produced based on a type certificate data sheet that has CAR regulations has to meet those regulations .
Taken from <URL> : While most pilots assume the FAA has jurisdiction over landing areas , including water-based landing areas , the truth is much more complex . Jurisdiction rests with the person or organization that " owns " the waterway . This may be a Federal or state agency , a local government , a private corporation , or an individual . Determining who controls a waterway is the first step in determining whether it is legal to land on that body of water . A second complication enters in the picture with overriding jurisdictions , most commonly state-imposed seaplane base licensing requirements . In several states , notably Ohio , New Jersey and Indiana , seaplanes may not land unless the proposed landing area is certified as a seaplane base , regardless of whether the waterway owner provides permission or not . To determine whether this is an issue in your area , call your state aeronautics office ( often a division of the state department of transportation ) , check the Water Landing Directory , or call SPA Headquarters ( 863/701 -7979 ) .
In fact , most militaries do n't take colorblind people into flight school . Colorblindness can be a serious problem for a pilot , because in the interest of cost and/or simplicity , not all indicators in an aircraft cockpit are colorblind-accessible . It 's really cheap to use a two-way red/green LED as a status indicator ( and by quickly alternating the current through the LED you get amber ) ; it 's much more expensive in electro-mechanical systems to combine text and color so that the status can be deciphered by someone who is red-green colorblind . It becomes easier again in a glass cockpit , but that increases cost and there are still concerns like screen resolution to consider when designing text-and-color displays . While it 's in the general interest of aviation manufacturers to design certain avionics with as many overlapping visual cues as possible , it 's not always feasible to specifically design towards colorblind accessibility in every circumstance . Here is a set of spectra simulating how various forms of colorblindness would change a person 's perception of the normal color set : <URL> Protanopia and deuteranopia are various forms of red-green colorblindness , the most common form of dichromia ( protanopia is a deficiency in red cells , deuteranopia a deficiency in green ; the results are similar because red and green are close in wavelength ) . Tritanopia is commonly called blue-yellow colorblindness and is less common , with full colorblindness ( monochromia ) being very rare . From this chart , we can deduce the following basic difficulties for a red-green colorblind person attempting to operate a plane : Red on brown , or any dark color , would have no contrast . That would make reading ( and setting ) this Cessna radio stack nearly impossible : <URL> ... as well as decreasing the contrast of red lines on high-elevation sectionals ( like Charlie/Echo space boundaries , non-towered airports , NDB frequencies etc ) : <URL> Green and yellow are practically indistinguishable . That would make discerning the borders of inhabited low-lying areas on sectionals difficult : <URL> ... as well as making the color-coding of this airspeed gauge much less useful at a glance : <URL> Blue and magenta are indistinguishable , as are cyan and white . That makes your GPS useless over water ; where 's the magenta line ? <URL> While you could probably get around most of these difficulties ( buy a nav stack with blue LED displays , trace the borders of your sectional charts in something , configure the GPS to give you a white line , etc etc ) these are all images that people with full color vision would be able to discern at a glance , which in an emergency situation is often a life-or-death advantage . That point is especially true for military pilots , who are typically subject to more rigorous medical screening and training including very high requirements for visual acuity ( often better than 20/20 uncorrected vision ) . If you ca n't see extremely well in a combat situation , you will either fail to spot an enemy until he has gained a significant advantage over you , or you will fire on friendly forces ; either way , you 're a liability . Coupled with the fact that everyone and their brother grew up dreaming of being a fighter pilot , flight schools get to be picky . Therefore , military aircraft cockpits are typically designed with the assumption of full color spectrum perception , because the only people who will ever be in them will be able to tell red from green , blue from yellow . Consider , just as one example , a hypothetical conflict in the Middle East involving the Turks and Iranians , where NATO and thus the USAF is also involved . Both of these countries still operate variants of the F-4 Phantom . With an ROE requiring visual confirmation of a hostile , if you are in a USAF F-22 , in a visual-range tangle with an F-4 whose IFF is inconclusive ( either non-functioning or malfunctioning ) and you ca n't tell the difference between these two rondels ... ... you are screwed . The fact the Phantom is maneuvering against you is what any pilot would do when approached by an aggressor aircraft ; a Turkish pilot is n't just going to sit there and be shot down by friendly fire , he 'll engage defensive , so you can either shoot and risk spending the rest of your life in Leavenworth for dereliction of duty , or break engagement , presenting your tailpipe to the other craft and hoping it 's not hostile . Fifty-fifty shot either way with a hundred and fifty million dollar plane on the line , not to mention your life . Your first clue it 's an Iranian would be a missile launch , and no matter how much more advanced USAF craft are now than in the era of the F-4 , an aircraft that has successfully launched a short-range missile at you has you by the wrinkly ones . In addition , ground lighting systems are often not differentiable either . For instance , there is an important difference between a heliport beacon flashing green-yellow-white versus white-green-red ( the one including a red fla
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
A <URL> measures the time spent in a general aviation aircraft with the power on . Planes differ in that time is easier to record than distance . For a given airspeed , the distance covered by the aircraft depends on the wind , altitude , and other factors . Modern airliners would record the period each engine has run , flight time , cycles ( one cycle is one pressurization/depressurization cycle ) , etc. , <URL> . Those records are then used to track the <URL> ( TBO ) . Same as with cars . For small planes , a <URL> is used to record the revolutions the engine has made , this one is used for TBO . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image of tach timer .
Let 's have a look at documentation of <URL> . It says ( on page 6 ) that if GPS data is lost , it will maintain RNP0 .1 for 8 minutes , RNP0 .3 for 20 minutes and RNP1 for 2 hours . That means that in 8 minutes the error is no more than 0.1 nautical mile with 95 % confidence , in 20 minutes it is no more than 0.3 nm with 95 % confidence and in 2 hours the error is no more than 1 nm again with 95 % confidence . For general description how it works see <URL> and of course the appropriate <URL> . Basically it measures acceleration and rotation ( with gyroscopes ) and integrates it over time . Modern systems do the calculations digitally with sophisticated filters to smooth over some errors .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
So there are potentially two ways to interpret your question . First is a pilot who holds an FAA commercial pilot certification , second is a societal occupation label generally referring to a pilot performing as a crewmember of a 14CFR Part 121 scheduled air carrier airway , or colloquially , an airline pilot . In both cases the idea that any pilot need to be exceptionally capable at math is a fallacy . I suspect it 's a holdover from the 40 's and 50 's when all flight planning calculations needed to be done by hand . Now all of that is automated and even allowed during the FAA written tests . Additionally , needing strong math skills is often claimed when an individual is actually thinking of a test pilot or aeronautical engineer , which both require very strong algebra and calculus skills . That said , there are some areas in the higher level written exams that rewrite you know how to calculate weight and balance , but these all relay on standardized some equations that are n't exceptionally difficult for even a novice . These written exams include the Airline Transport Pilot ( which will be required for the second interpretation ) , Dispatcher Certificate , and Flight Engineer .
Small planes tend to have keys , but not all . The bigger the plane the less likely a key is needed and once you get into jets , I ca n't think of any that need keys for engine starts . The starting and securing of engines with no keys comes down to switches and knobs . Likewise with exterior doors , on smaller planes including private end executive jets , you can find keyed exterior doors and luggage compartments . With transport jets at airlines you wo n't find keys . To secure those doors the jet bridge is pulled away from the airplane so there is no physical access to the boarding door .
The two things are completely different and exist for different reasons : Fan and turbine blades are mounted loosely , so they can self-balance . This is because at the very high RPM fans and turbines spin at they are extremely sensitive to imbalance . On the other hand , the self-balancing only works at high RPM . It also requires the blades to be connected at the tips with the " shroud " . Rotors have lead-lag hinges because the rotor spins parallel to the flow so in forward flight the advancing blade meets the air at significantly higher speed than the retreating blade . Propellers spin slower , so they are not as sensitive to imbalance , and they do n't have the shroud , so they ca n't be mounted loosely anyway . They spin perpendicular to the airflow , so all blades meet the air at similar speed and angle of attack , so they do n't need to deal with as big differences in the aerodynamic forces . And they are smaller and more rigid .
Yes ILS equipment for CATIII is the most sophisticated across ILS systems . As people mentioned in comments there are another types of landing systems , which could be more complex . No it is not auto landing system . It self CATIII is a <URL> . Also take a look here <URL>
Some Airbus aircraft have this characteristic , in the rear section of the cabin floor . You can see this in the following image . The rear passenger windows slope up following the floor slope . <URL> A340 line drawings ; image from <URL> This image of the upper cargo deck of A330 MRTT upper cargo deck ( which would be the cabin floor in the passenger version ) shows the upward slope . <URL> A330MRTT cabin floor ; image from <URL> Apparently , this is a common trait in A300/310/340 / 330 's to allow more containerized cargo in the rear .
I have worked on large and small aircraft . You will find a 400hz power bus only on large aircraft . The reason is the greater quantity of poles in the generator and hence weight . Smaller aircraft use a 28v DC system for the avionics .
Some countries do n't get the most powerful engines and have to use what is available in the market . To avoid upsetting China too much , the US would not sell the <URL> or the <URL> to Taiwan , and a derivative of a <URL> had to be developed . A second reason is redundancy : When the US Navy had to decide between the <URL> and what <URL> , they preferred the design with two engines , because losing your only engine over water is a much more life-threatening experience than losing it over land . Similarly , the Eurofighter was designed more for peace than for war - having two engines will reduce training losses . Generally , a single , bigger engine will be more powerful and more efficient per unit of mass , because manufacturing tolerances will be relatively smaller in the bigger engine , if the same technology is used for both . Single engines need to have more system redundancy than one of a pair of engines , so some of that advantage can not be transferred into the finished design . Nevertheless , from a performance standpoint the single engine fighter will look better .
For the US under the FAA , Yes you do ! <URL> Changes of fixed equipment may have a major effect upon the weight of the aircraft . Many aircraft are overloaded by the installation of extra radios or instruments . Fortunately , the replacement of older , heavy electronic equipment with newer , lighter types results in a weight reduction . This weight change , however helpful , can cause the CG to shift , which must be computed and annotated in the weight and balance record . For larger repairs . Repairs and alterations are the major sources of weight changes . It is the responsibility of the FAA-certificate mechanic or repairman making any repair or alteration to know the weight and location of a change , to compute the CG , record the new empty weight and EWCG in the aircraft weight and balance record , and update the equipment lists . Generally this is done by the shop that installs them . If you as the owner/operator installs them ( <URL> ) you may need to have a new WB drafted up . This is also checked at anual every year , The FAA-certificated mechanic or repairman conducting an annual or condition inspection must ensure the weight and balance data in the aircraft records is current and accurate . It is the responsibility of the PIC to use the most current weight and balance data when operating the aircraft .
end question
start question
What is the format specification for Avidyne R9 flight data ?
According to section 12-4 of the <URL> , data logs are saved as a simple . csv file that can imported into any spreadsheet software ( like Microsoft Excel ) for analysis . There are many free tools that can covert Excel files to KML for Google Earth , ie : <URL>
The fastest air-breathing aerodynamic-lift craft for which a maximum speed is known to civilians , and that can support mid-air refueling for an unlimited range , is the <URL> at Mach 3.3 . However , all known airframes of this model have been retired and mothballed as museum pieces , and the SR-71 runs on a special blend of jet fuel called JP-7 that is no longer in use by any production aircraft ( the sole remaining use is for the X-51 scramjet testbed ) . So not only would you have to get the planes airworthy again , you 'd need a batch of <URL> at both ends and likely a tanker in the air full of it to use a Blackbird for this hop . The fastest aircraft readily available and best suited for the job would likely be the <URL> . It can cruise at Mach 1.82 in clean configuration without afterburners ( the samples could be contained in a " personal effects pod " carried in the internal bays ) , and has a one-way range of about 2,000 miles between refuelings . The <URL> can supercruise at Mach 1.5 and would be a good second choice or even a first choice , seeing as most of western Europe has these in service . You would n't have to get an F-22 over to Europe from an airbase in the States or the Middle East ; there 's a couple of RAF garrisons that operate the Typhoon about 30 minutes from Heathrow in Lincolnshire , and you only lose a few hundred miles an hour on the one-way trip .
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
For the longest Oceanic Crossing , the following are the top three contenders : Sydney to Vancouver Melbourne to Los Angeles Auckland to Vancouver Out of this , 1 and 2 pass over a few islands on their way , 3 does not pass over any landmass . Have a look at this : <URL> Image : ( Image Source : www.gcmap.com )
the scissor link ensures the upper swashplate rotates with the rotor blades ( and the lower with the body ) while ensuring enough movement for the plate to control the craft ( tilting and up and down ) . ( <URL> ) To keep the stationary swashplate from rotating with the rotor , a scissor mechanism is added . The scissor connects the swashplate to the fuselage . The scissor consists of 2 parts which are connected by a hinge . One end is connected to the helicopter using a hinge , while the other is connected using a ball joint . This means that the swashplate can move freely up and down , and can freely tilt in any direction , but ca n't rotate around the mast . <URL> this is needed because the control linkage is typically attached with balljoints which would otherwise allow for too much relative movement .
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
The Flight Standards Information Management System , created by <URL> , is the source of all information relating to aviation safety inspector job tasks . It 's about 8,000 pages worth of ( non-regulatory ) guidance and policy helping FAA Inspectors to do their job properly . It 's an electronic-only document , which can be found at <URL> , or by visiting the <URL> and entering " 8900 " in the search box at the top right . There 's all kinds of good stuff in there , such as : <URL> <URL> <URL> And lots more ! FSIMS is open to the general public - if you want to know what an inspector does day in and day out ( or what to expect when you meet one ) , FSIMS is the one-stop-shopping location for the answers to all your questions .
You ca n't get real-time data from the FAA without an operational need , and organizations which do receive real-time data can not legally re-distribute this data publicly , except to other organizations approved by the FAA . An operational need pretty much means you have to be a flight dispatcher for an airline or commercial operator , not just have an interest in tracking flights . You can get some real-time data from your local area using an ADS-B receiver . See this question for more information : <URL> . If you are okay with the five minute delay , then <URL> you might consider . The direct feed from the FAA is called <URL> and I believe you can apply for the delayed feed , though I 've never gone through the process , and the government 's site is very sparse in information . I would suggest contacting them before attempting to apply if it 's something you 're interested in .
This question has been asked and answered in a slightly different form at <URL> , and I refer you to that for basic info . Concerning the detail in your question : What difficulties would the pilots face for the remainder of the flight , including navigation and landing , with no one attending the flight engineer station in the cockpit ? It would be a nuisance for sure , but as long as there were no abnormal or emergency situations ( other than the FE 's personal situation ) , a nuisance would be all that it was . However , one could dream up scenarios that could get really sticky without the specialized knowledge that the FE would be expected to have that the pilots might not have ( or had forgotten ) . For example , would one of the pilots get up and sit at the FE station , leaving the other pilot the only person at the controls ? Or would the person get up , go to the FE station to read or adjust something , then sit back at the pilot 's seat ? Or do they not have to move at all ? The Captain can see the FE panel . Some of the gauges along the aft portion would be a little hard to read . For example , if he wanted to see what the exact pressure of the Potable water was rather than just that there was pressure , he might have to get up to get close enough . Or if a generator fault light came on , he 'd probably have to get up to see what the fault was . There would n't be any need to stay in the FE seat . If the flight were long , there would be some trips to the FE seat for fuel management . You can have as many as 9 fuel tanks ( 7 is the usual ) , and there are rules for the fuel burn schedule . The most important and most time consuming FE task during cruise was keeping track of what the fuel burn was , especially on the 747-100 because it did n't have the fuel capacity of the -200 . For example , a -100 going from JFK to Tel Aviv would sometimes not have the fuel to make it . Abeam Athens the FE would inform the Captain either than they had the fuel to continue or that they would need to divert to Athens for fuel . If the Captain wanted to talk to company for some reason , it was usually the FE that established contact via HF , and it was usually the FE that answered SELCALs . But the pilots sometimes did it . Flight attendants might show up and ask for a general cabin temperature change . Of course , it the FE had a severe medical problem , you would probably land at the nearest suitable airport just as you would for a passenger medical emergency .
There are two primary factors that affect the skin temperature of an aircraft in flight : the air temperature , and the speed of the aircraft . The air temperature where airliners cruise is relatively cold , around <URL> . As a body like an aircraft moves through air , it compresses the air , which causes the air temperature to rise . The maximum temperature rise will be if the air is completely stopped , such as at a leading edge . This is called the <URL> , and the amount that the temperature rises is called the ram rise . Using a <URL> to find the ram rise : $ $ RR = \ frac { V ^ 2 } { 87 ^ 2 } $ $ ... where $ RR$ is in Kelvin , and $ V$ is the true airspeed in knots . Using a typical airliner cruising speed of 500 knots gives a temperature of 33 degrees . This brings the total air temperature to -22 ° C , which is still quite cold . At places other than the leading edge , the temperature rise will be less . This is why <URL> , even being insulated and pressurized . Airliners just do n't fly fast enough to produce a significant amount of heating . On the other hand , the SR-71 could fly at over 1,910 kts , which gives a ram rise of 482 ° C . The air does n't get much colder as you climb to the altitudes where the SR-71 flew , so this gives a total air temperature of over 400 ° C. Speed makes a huge difference .
Modern civil cargo flights can be divided into three categories : containerized-load , large-load , and feeder . Containerized-load cargo ( ULDs , standard pallet loads ) This is your typical UPS or FedEx flight ; their flight crew complements are no different than a passenger aircraft flying the same route -- a captain and F/O for a short haul route such as one of the UPS A300s , and a captain , F/O , relief captain , and relief F/O ( " heavy " crew ) for a long-haul flight that needs them , although they may prefer to break such a flight up into segments , performing crew changes on the ground . ( Flight engineers are n't counted here since those aircraft are basically retired now . ) Bulk-load cargo These loads ( vehicles , large equipment , live animals , etc ) require more attention , so loadmasters are more commonly seen on these flights . However , the FAA does not consider a loadmaster " flight crew " in the sense that there are no licenses or ratings for the position ; the training and qualifications for loadmasters are completely up to their employer . Feeder aircraft Feeder aircraft are often turboprop types ( ATRs , for instance ) that are too small to use standard-sized ULDs , so they are loaded in bulk on the main deck . They use a captain and first officer pairing as well . Either way , most cargo aircraft have room for supernumeraries ( aka jump seaters ) , at least on the cockpit jumpseats if not in a forward or upper deck passenger cabin as well ; long-haul aircraft will also have crew rest bunks fitted to that forward cabin area for use by " heavy " crews .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
You have this tagged both FAA and ICAO but for the FAA thats governed under <URL> ( c ) Hand fire extinguishers for crew , passenger , cargo , and galley compartments . Hand fire extinguishers of an approved type must be provided for use in crew , passenger , cargo , and galley compartments in accordance with the following : ( 1 ) The type and quantity of extinguishing agent must be suitable for the kinds of fires likely to occur in the compartment where the extinguisher is intended to be used and , for passenger compartments , must be designed to minimize the hazard of toxic gas concentrations . ( 2 ) Cargo compartments . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located for use in each class E cargo compartment that is accessible to crewmembers during flight . ( 3 ) Galley compartments . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located for use in each galley located in a compartment other than a passenger , cargo , or crew compartment . ( 4 ) Flightcrew compartment . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located on the flight deck for use by the flightcrew . ( 5 ) Passenger compartments . Hand fire extinguishers for use in passenger compartments must be conveniently located and , when two or more are required , uniformly distributed throughout each compartment . Hand fire extinguishers shall be provided in passenger compartments as follows : ( i ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 6 but fewer than 31 passengers , at least one . ( ii ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 30 but fewer than 61 passengers , at least two . ( iii ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 60 passengers , there must be at least the following number of hand fire extinguishers : Minimum Number of Hand Fire Extinguishers Passenger seating accommodations : 61 through 200 : 3 201 through 300 : 4 301 through 400 : 5 401 through 500 : 6 501 through 600 : 7 601 or more : 8 ( 6 ) Notwithstanding the requirement for uniform distribution of hand fire extinguishers as prescribed in paragraph ( c ) ( 5 ) of this section , for those cases where a galley is located in a passenger compartment , at least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located and easily accessible for use in the galley . ( 7 ) At least two of the required hand fire extinguisher installed in passenger-carrying airplanes must contain Halon 1211 ( bromochlorofluoromethane ) or equivalent as the extinguishing agent . At least one hand fire extinguisher in the passenger compartment must contain Halon 1211 or equivalent . You may also find some <URL> .
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
Footnote : I hope this is the correct / current regulation . Published date is 25 January 2015 . Your question is covered ( for EASA regulations ) in the document Certification Specifications and Guidance Material for Aerodromes Design ( <URL> ) in two sections : Taxiway Slope ( CS ADR-DSN . D. 265 ) Taxiway Slope changes ( CS ADR-DSN . D. 270 ) CS ADR-DSN . D. 265 Longitudinal slopes on taxiways ( a ) The safety objective of limiting the longitudinal taxiway slope is to enable stabilised safe use of taxiway by an aircraft . ( b ) The longitudinal slope of a taxiway should not exceed : 1.5 % where the code letter is C , D , E , or F ; and 3 % where the code letter is A or B. CS ADR-DSN . D. 270 Longitudinal slope changes on taxiways ( a ) The safety objective of limiting the longitudinal taxiway slope changes is to avoid damage of aircraft and to enable safe use of taxiway by an aircraft . ( b ) Where slope changes on a taxiway can not be avoided , the transition from one slope to another slope should be accomplished by a curved surface with a rate of change not exceeding : 1 % per 30m ( minimum radius of curvature of 3000m ) where the code letter is C , D , E , or F ; and 1 % per 25m ( minimum radius of curvature of 2500m ) where the code letter is A or B. ( c ) Where slope changes in ( b ) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are not achieved and slopes on a taxiway can not be avoided , the transition from one slope to another slope should be accomplished by a curved surface which should allow the safe operation of all aircraft in all weather conditions . The letters refer to the <URL> .
The flight director is related to the autopilot system . It displays a guide on the artificial horizon , which shows the attitude of the airplane , but does nothing to control the plane . The guide represents a reference of an airplane attitude that will follow the parameters set for the autopilot . The pilot can manually fly the plane directly where the flight director indicates , and by doing so the plane will follow the parameters set for the autopilot . If the autopilot is engaged , autopilot flies the plane to follow the flight director . The flight director serves as a visual indication of where the autopilot wants the plane to go . Although a flight director typically accompanies an autopilot system , some aircraft have a flight director without an autopilot . The procedure to engage them is to first turn on the flight director , which will show where the autopilot wants the plane to be , and then to engage the autopilot , which will then automatically fly the plane . This is what the autopilot controls can look like . Here is the Boeing flight director , visible as the crossed magenta lines in the center of the screen .
end question
start question
What is the effect of moving the centre of gravity ahead or behind the aerodynamic centre for HALE UAVs ?
Glider pilots in a competition will try to place the center of gravity at the most rearward position possible , sometimes even further back than permitted . This will make the glider statically unstable , but the performance will not be much improved - this is more psychological than real . Do n't discount psychology in competitions : Pilots who feel that they fly an inferior plane will take bigger risks to get ahead and have a much higher chance of spoiling their chances by doing something stupid . Therefore , everyone tries to tweak their plane , even if the tweaking only helps to give a good feeling . Now to the physics : If the center of gravity ( CG ) is right above or below the aerodynamic center ( AC ) , the aircraft 's longitudinal static stability is indifferent . Move it forward and stability increases , move it further back and the plane becomes unstable . The aerodynamic center is where the angle-of-atttack-dependent lift forces act , and in an indifferent configuration the lift coefficient on wing and tail will be equal . Since the aspect ratio of the wing is normally larger than that of the tail , an indifferent configuration will already produce slightly more induced drag for the same lift than a slightly stable configuration . Details depend on the lift loss at the center of the wing due to the fuselage and the combined vorticity of wing and tail , but as a first approximation the above is valid . Moving the CG further aft only makes matters worse . Now it can be argued that the rear CG location helps in maneuvering the aircraft . This might even be helpful with gliders , since they need to maneuver quickly into the center of a thermal , but HALE ( high altitude long endurance ) UAVs fly mostly straight , so maneuvers will be few , slow and deliberate . In essence , moving the CG back in a very stable configuration helps , but the optimum is reached already before the CG reaches the AC . Moving it back even further is detrimental to performance and runs the risk of stalling the tail first due to its high loading . I do not know of any HALE which flies in a statically unstable configuration , and the glider pilots who do will not openly talk about it .
The FAA has <URL> on ASDE-X , most of which I personally have no idea how to interpret correctly . The <URL> in particular has a lot of technical details on radar performance and although I did n't understand much of it I did notice this requirement : 3.6.3 Map Registration The display of target data shall [ R306 ] be registered to the display map with an accuracy of at least 20 feet . So whatever the technical capabilities of the system are , operationally it seems that you can assume it 's accurate to within 20ft , which seems to be reasonable in the context of large aircraft . You may be able to get more out of the documentation than I could , of course .
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
Whether it 's a twin - , tri - , or quad-jet , it very much depends on the aircraft design , airline policy , and conditions such as taxiway slope , contamination , weight , etc. . Read the below example for the Airbus A320 to get an idea : <URL> An example of what can go wrong when taxiing on two out of four engines ( or 1 out of 2 ) is having the aircraft in the wrong configuration . Like what happened on <URL> when the ground engineer had no steering or braking and <URL> : <URL> For the Airbus A380 : <URL> The minimum is a symmetrical two on the A380 ( likewise for the 747 ) . 777 In the 777 it is not allowed . That 's an example of how it depends on the aircraft design . Taxi -- One Engine Because of additional operational procedural requirements and crew workload , taxiing with an engine shut down is not allowed . High bypass engines require warm up prior to applying takeoff thrust and cool down prior to shutting down . If the engine has been shut down for several hours , it is desirable to operate at as low a thrust setting as practicable for several minutes prior to takeoff . Note : Single engine taxi with an inoperative engine is authorized consistent with good judgement . ( Boeing 777 FCOM ) Fuel saving According to this <URL> , the saving is about 4-8 kg of fuel per minute .
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
I ca n't speak directly to the ICON A5 as I neither own nor fly one , but for every aircraft I 'm familiar with the manufacturer 's " book numbers " are generous theoretical values - for example , they typically assume flying perfectly straight-and-level in a no-wind condition , and getting the best possible fuel economy performance from the powerplant . The Icon folks are openly honest about this on their specs page : <URL> , and range is certainly " Performance " in my book . Personally I have no doubt that the A5 could manage 300NM under the conditions for which its designers did the math to arrive at that number - it 's a slick little plane with a fuel-sipping engine - but they may have done a " to empty tanks " calculation ( leaving you to account for the <URL> ) , and in the real world the 15-knot headwind you run into will substantially reduce your range ( or , conversely , you can fly in the other direction and increase it ) . As with all aircraft your mileage will , quite literally , vary depending on the day and direction of flight .
Short Answer Batteries would need to be somewhere around 16.7 MJ/kg to give the same range and performance as liquid fuels , this is about 18.5 times the capacity of the best lithium-ion batteries . Price-wise it will cost about 30-35 % to charge your airplane as opposed to fill it with liquid fuels at today 's prices . Long Answer This is a good question which is hard to give an exact answer to , so this will be more of a Fermi Approximation . To answer this you need to look at the energy contained in the fuel and the efficiency of the engine used . Looking at the energy of the fuel I will use <URL> , which is the energy stored in a material per unit of mass . Specific Energy is related to <URL> , which is the amount of energy contained per unit of volume . Often the terms are interchanged . The specific energy of avgas and jet fuel is about 43 MJ/kg . The best lithium-ion batteries top out at about 0.9 MJ/kg ( the batteries in a Tesla are about 0.7 MJ/kg ) , so they have a fraction of the storage of liquid fuels . The best battery technology in theoretical development ( Lithium-air ) has a theoretical maximum of 41 MJ/kg , more realistically they 'll get 1/4 to 1/3 of that from the technology , which is still vast . Internal combustion engines are about 35 % efficient , the other 65 % is wasted whereas electric engines are much closer to 90 % efficient or more . There are other factors to consider : Weight : fuel tanks , piping and pumps take weight , and electric motors are much lighter than internal combustion engines . The batteries would need a storage structure but an electric system would probably be lighter overall Battery inconsistencies : avgas supplies a consistent amount of energy in every single drop whereas batteries will sag as they discharge ( this is regulated to give consistent power to the motor , however at some point levels will drop below what is regulatable , so not all the power in the batteries will be usable ) . Also , over time they lose capacity and become less efficient . Both these factors mean that you 'd want to build in extra battery capacity to compensate So I 'm going to assume these two will compensate for each other , the weight savings from going electric will be offset by the need for extra capacity to ensure consistency . Assuming that all other factors are equal ( propeller efficiency , etc ) we can extrapolate the actual efficiency of the systems to get an approximate figure of an internal combustion on avgas : 35 % of 43 MJ/kg = 15 MJ/kg of actual benefit . We can use that figure to determine what specific energy we would need from batteries to get the same amount by dividing by electric motor efficiency : 15 MJ/kg / 0.9 we get 16.7 MJ/kg . So batteries would need to store 16.7 MJ/kg to give us the same energy as liquid fuels , but how does it compare to existing battery tech ? Right now commercially available battery technology is about 0.9 MJ/kg , so it would need 18.56 times more storage capacity ( 16.7 / 0.9 = 18.56 ) to supply the same amount of energy . As for energy costs this is going to vary a lot depending on fuel and electricity prices over time and place ; we can use some of the same figures above to work the numbers . I 'll assume an airplane that holds 40 US Gallons ( 150 liters ) as the math is easy and it 's about the capacity of a Cessna 172 . I 'm going to do separate calculations for the US and UK to see how they compare : In the US : Avgas is about \ $ 5.20 per US gallon at the moment , that 's \ $ 208 to fill up your airplane of 40 gals . Avgas has about 34.2 MJ/liter of energy , multiply that by 150 liters for 5130 MJ of energy . Internal combustion engines are 35 % efficient and electric engines 90 % , so we can calculate that an electric airplane would need 5130 * 0.35 / 0.9 = 1995 MJ of electrical power to fill up . 1995 MJ is about 554 kWh , at somewhere around \ $ 0.135 per kWh it would cost you \ $ 75 to charge an airplane with the same amount of energy . In the UK : Avgas in the UK is about \ $ 2.23 per liter ( \ $ 8.47 per US Gallon ( ouch ! ) ) , so it would cost \ $ 334.50 to fill up an airplane . 554 kWh of electricity costs about \ $ 0.17 per kWh , so it would cost \ $ 94 to charge the airplane EDIT : I did consider the efficiency gain from weight loss as fuel is burned , i.e. a <URL> , I left it out of the answer as it is n't significant compared to the other factors in what is already an approximation . It has to do with the <URL> , which is the percentage of the aircraft weight that is fuel , which on a light piston single is comparatively low . A Cessna 172 carries about 40 gallons of fuel , 38 of which is usable , weighing about 228 pounds as opposed to a typical take-off weight of 2200-2300 lbs . In other words its fuel fraction is about 10 % , even on a long range flight using every bit of fuel you will only lose 10 % of your weight , and I would approximate that you 'd get around 5 % benefit from it . This was not enough of a factor compared to the other considerations , and it would probably be offset by regenerative desce
The key thing is that not every flight is the same . Sometimes the landing gear is left up for longer for noise abatement , sometimes it goes out earlier if more drag is required . On a non-straight in approach it 's sometimes a good idea to extend the gear earlier . If the brakes heat up too much on the taxi before takeoff , the gear may need to be left down for a bit for extra cooling . Flaps are a bit different as they are typically set for a certain speed , but the principle still applies . For example if turbulence is encountered which effects the airspeed , having the autopilot moving the flaps the second the flap movement speed is triggered is unhelpful . Basically , these are things that require the active judgement of the pilots considering the individual factors of that specific flight . It 's impossible to automate all of this satisfactorily even with pre-planning . Even if you could it would further introduce an overreliance on automation for very little gain .
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
In a jet engine using the <URL> , number 4 is the station numbering of combustor exit/turbine nozzle guide vane leading edge , and T4 is the temperature at this station . <URL> ( <URL> ) From this document ( in French ) : <URL> which is a thesis by Elodie Roux , this table on page 198 : <URL> tells us the T4 temperature is 1633 K , that is 1360 ° C.
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
The attachment rail/track width ( gauge ) is not fixed . It differs from plane to plane , and the chosen seat manufacturer obliges . 21 " or 55 cm seems the average though . <URL> Source : <URL> Above image shows B717 cross section , you can notice the 3-abreast and 2-abreast both are on two rails . No high-res available . Different plane models : <URL> Some are wall mounted .
The weight of the battery is <URL> : Power is provided by 127 kg . of 250-volt lithium-ion polymer batteries from Kokam in South Korea built into the wing . A slightly different weight is <URL> : ... E-Fan has two lithium-polymer battery packs weighing 65 kg each . I could not find which Kokam battery is being used on the e-fan , but <URL> for all of their batteries .
Instrument landing system - ILS - is a very common precision approach system used in airports around the world . An ILS consists of two ground antennas and an airborne received in the aircraft . One of the ground antennas , known as a localiser , transmits a narrow beam along the runway , giving lateral guidance to aircraft approaching the runway . The other antenna , the glide slope , transmits a vertical beam at a specified angle , giving vertical guidance for aircraft approaching . Together , the localiser and glide slope provides aircraft with an exact path to follow toward the runway . <URL> A localiser antenna The main advantage of ILS is that is allows approaches and landings in poor weather conditions . Pilots do not have to visually see the runway until moments before touchdown , because the ILS can guide the plane down very precisely . However , there are different standards of ILS . These are named CAT I , CAT II and CAT III ( CAT III has three additional substandards : CAT IIIa , CAT IIIb and CAT IIIc ) . In order to fly a CAT I approach , the cloud based ( ceiling ) must be no lower than 200 feet and the visibility must be no lower than 550 metres . This is because the pilots must be able to visually identify the runway no later than 200 feet above the ground to be able to land . For a CAT II approach , the ceiling must not be lower than 100 ft and the visibility not less than 350 metres . CAT IIIa has a minimum ceiling of 50 ft and a minimum visibility of 200 metres . CAT IIIb has no minimum ceiling , but there must be at least 50 metres of visibility . For a CAT IIIc , which has not actually been implemented anywhere , there are no minimum limits for ceiling and visibility . As you can see , CAT II or III approaches allow pilots to land is extremely bad weather conditions . So if CAT III is so great , why do n't we use it all the time ? In order to use CAT II/III approaches , a number of conditions have to be met : The ground based ILS equipment must live up to very strict standards , and be very carefully calibrated . As a result , installing and maintaining CAT II/III ILS equipment at an airport is very expensive , so not all airports have it . In addition to the ILS antennas , there are also strict requirements for other runway equipment such as lighting . The aircraft must have special equipment that is certified to perform CAT II/III approaches . Again , cost is a significant factor . Equipping aircraft with such fine tuned equipment is very expensive , and if you mostly fly to areas with good weather , it is probably not worth it . The pilots must be qualified . A normal pilot license is not enough to fly a CAT II/III approach , you need additional training and qualifications to be allowed to perform such approaches . Air traffic control low visibility procedures result in reduced airport capacity . Because ILS signals are transmitted from antennas on the ground , there are risks of interfering with the ILS signal , resulting in imprecise guidance . The main issue is when an aircraft moves in front of the antennas , partly blocking the signal for other aircraft on approach . Because of this , airports have strict rules for how close aircraft may get to ILS antennas when CAT II/III approaches are in use . Aircraft on the ground must hold further away from the runway than they normally would , to stay clear of so called ILS sensitive areas . <URL> An example of ILS sensitive/critical areas at an airport <URL> Separate runway holding points used when CAT II/III approaches are carried out We also need additional space between two aircraft approaching the same runway . This is because the first aircraft , once landed and on the runway , can block parts of the localiser signal for the following aircraft . Because of this , the first aircraft must be clear of the runway by the time the second aircraft joins short final . This means we need extra space between aircraft , resulting in a reduced runway capacity . As you can see , there are a number of factors limiting the use of CAT II/III approaches , which is why they are only used when the weather is so bad that CAT I approaches can not be carried out .
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
Why do people have to worry about CG ? Because the manufacturer has designed the aircraft following certain criteria , and one of those is where the CG will be during flight . If the CG is outside that interval , the elevator will not have enough autority to keep level flight . does tipping over of aircraft actually occur these days due to improperly managed CG ? Was not improperly " managed " , but it went out of bounds ( in particular , the aft limit ) , unfortunately , soon after take-off and <URL> .
Perhaps an aeronautic version of one of the Voith maritime systems ? This one appears to be electrically powered . <URL> ( watch the " installation " video ) . Also , this video explains the concept a bit ( for maritime applications ) I suppose if you could arrange a lightweight frictionless magnetic ring bearing ( possibly integrating electric drive ) , and/or peripheral drive linking system , it might be worth it if you needed to have two or three smaller fans beside each other , driven by a single core , rather than a singe large fan , in order to reduce fan/nacelle height . ( imagine a B52 nacelle with one side shortened to just a fan cowling ) I doubt that this would reduce overall drag , though , but I am intrigued by the concept of the greatest chord of the blades travelling the fastest .
One seller 's link on Amazon claimed 10 " x 5 " , but when I measured an old one ( only one I have handy ) , it was between 10.25 " and 10.5 " long by 5 " wide . So I 'd recommend using the latter value , knowing that the chart will probably be a hair under 10.5 " long and so you have room for error ( or a badly refolded chart ) .
end question
start question
Why is n't the V flight formation being used for commercial purposes ?
This possibility has actually been studied and discussed ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) as a way to save fuel costs , but there are several issues with implementing it today : You need to schedule a number of aircraft all flying the same route at the same time for a significant amount of time If different , competing airlines should participate in one formation then they have to cooperate and be satisfied that no one is at a commercial ( dis ) advantage A lot of work would need to be done on procedures and training ( how does the formation form up , who takes the lead , how/when does the formation leader change , how are emergencies handled , what flight levels are used , what separation is required between formation and non-formation flights etc. ) Autopilots , software and other equipment would need major updates , which in turn requires re-certification All relevant regulations on separation , formation flying and so on would need to be reviewed and changed which in most countries means changing the aviation laws , and changing any law is usually a long , slow process Having said all that , you 'll notice that most of those issues are procedural , not technical . In theory it 's a viable approach , but turning that theory into reality would require a lot of work .
Jetstreams generally do n't stay perfectly straight . They tend to follow a meandering , curved path so it would be rare for a flight to stay in the max tailwind for very long . Dispatchers will often take advantage of jetstreams and plan the routing to follow part of the jetstream core . There is a website called <URL> where pilots can post photos of high groundspeeds for an " Unofficial " record . Here is an example from that website giving a groundspeed of 736 knots from a 240 knot jetstream tailwind . That is probably about the highest jetstream speed you will see : <URL> <URL>
For precisely this reason the <URL> had a fuel tank in the horizontal tail . However , the pilots I spoke with ( Pan Am ) did not understand the purpose and insisted that the tank is empty all the time . The A330 and A340 also have a tail fuel tank , and here its fuel level is automatically controlled . <URL> A330 tank arrangement ( picture <URL> ) . Note the trim tank in the horizontal tail . Shifting the c.g. a little back reduces drag slightly ( <URL> , depending on initial c.g. position ) but also static stability . This is no problem when the FCS adds enough stability , but in case of a system failure you should make sure that the rear tank can be emptied soon . Hand flying an aircraft with relaxed static stability <URL> . The A350 did away with this feature because it was felt that the added complexity would outweigh the benefits .
In all cases the answer is yes , those aircraft were all outfitted with seats , and at least very close to being ready for delivery to the customer . Installing interiors and seats is a regular part of the production process , and it 's unlikely that the plane would be pulled from the line before seats are installed , and worked back in later . From looking at <URL> , these aircraft all had about 7 months between rollout and delivery , with the air show appearance happening within a month of delivery . Also , the aircraft are used as static displays while not flying , allowing people to walk through and see the interior . In 2011 , the Korean Air A380 <URL> . It was delivered in the middle of July . In 2012 , the Malaysian A380 <URL> . It was delivered at the end of July . In 2013 , the British Airways A380 probably had seats installed . I ca n't find any pictures of the inside , but it was delivered shortly after <URL> . Airbus also tends to bring a flight test A380 like MSN001 ( first to fly , registered F-WWOW ) for display , and has a <URL> . The Korean Air A380 was used for the display in 2011 after the flight test plane MSN004 had a <URL> .
There is a very good reason not to run this test : If it is not done perfectly your engine can become starved of fuel during takeoff . For simplicity let 's assume your fuel selector only has two positions ( Left and Right ) and think about what 's involved in the test and a few things that can go wrong : What are we testing ? One of the points of an engine Runup is to verify that the fuel system can deliver a fuel flow sufficient to allow the engine to develop takeoff power . There are other things we 're verifying but let 's stick with that item for this discussion . How can we verify this ? We verify that the fuel system has adequate flow by running the engine up to something resembling takeoff power ( most runup checklists do n't have you go to full throttle , but you advance the throttle enough that the engine is demanding a significant fuel flow compared to idling and taxiing around ) . To verify that your fuel system is allowing sufficient fuel flow from each tank you would have to switch tanks during the engine run-up ( with the engine at runup power ) and wait long enough to exhaust any fuel that might be in the system between the fuel selector and the engine . If the fuel selector handle comes off in your hand or the engine quits you found the problem on the ground , so you can get a tow back to the ramp and get the fuel system fixed . What can go wrong ? The test above sounds innocent enough , but it 's deceptively dangerous . Here are two possible failure modes that may make you rethink it : The second tank does n't have adequate fuel flow . This could be a complete obstruction of the tank pickup or just a restriction in one of the lines , but for some reason the second tank will not supply a fuel flow sufficient for takeoff and climb out at full power . You may miss this if you do n't wait long enough at runup power after switching tanks to drain the fuel from the system forward of the fuel selector , and now your engine suddenly got quiet as you 're rolling down the runway - or worse it quits 100 feet off the ground and now you 're having a Really Bad Day ! You missed the fuel selector detent . Easy enough to do , especially if fuel selector maintenance has been lacking and the positions are not really distinct ( when is the last time you * really , critically , felt the clicks on your plane ? ) . It could happen in the initial switch , or when switching back to the first tank if that 's your procedure . A fuel selector not in a specific tank position may still allow enough fuel flow to complete a runup when combined with the fuel left forward of the fuel selector , but it may be too restricted to allow a takeoff . The fuel selector may also vibrate into an OFF position during takeoff . In this scenario maybe your engine stops at 200-300 feet , but you 're still having a Really Bad Day . In both of these scenarios the engine is still running because there is fuel in the system between the fuel selector and the engine ( the two big reservoirs are the fuel strainer / gascolator &amp; the carburetor float bowl , but there are also fuel lines that will need to drain before the engine dies ) . To get an idea how long these reserves last try setting your engine to Runup power and turning off the fuel selector . You may be surprised how long the engine will run before the fuel after the selector is exhausted . Also remember the time will vary based on power setting , mixture setting , and even aircraft attitude sitting on the ground allowing more or less fuel to get to the carburetor from the lines ( a nose-high attitude during takeoff may starve your engine more quickly than sitting level on the runup pad ) . How can we safely conduct this test ? Making sure your fuel tanks all work is kind of important , especially if you are going to be making a flight near the endurance limit of your fuel . There is no 100 % safe way to conduct this test , but the way I was taught seems to have the fewest possible failure modes : Start , taxi , Runup , and takeoff should be conducted on one tank . Typically this is " the fullest tank " , but if they 're all equally full then either the one the fuel system return flows to if your airplane has such a thing , or just pick one . By using the one tank for all your ground operations and your Runup you are pretty much guaranteeing that it flows sufficient fuel to allow a takeoff , and that at least this position on the fuel selector works . After takeoff switch tanks after reaching a safe altitude . Do this with enough fuel left in the tank you took off on to turn around and get back to where you started in case you discover the tank you switched to does n't work , and as with any tank switch be prepared for the fuel selector handle to come off in your hand : Know where you 'll put the plane if that happens ! If your engine stops a few minutes after you switch tanks ... ... you now have a good reason to suspect that the tank you switched to does n't work . Per the first rule of troubleshooting , undo the last change you made ( switch back to the worki
There are a lot of good reasons not to roll such an airplane . If the plane has gyroscopic instruments , you might tumble them ( cause the spinning gyro to hit the inside of the instrument ) . This can be expensive . You might easily over-stress the air frame . <URL> . ( That 's for a new aircraft ) A botched roll can easily hit 4.5 or higher . If you over stress the air frame , you might just put a lot of very expensive " wrinkles " in the skin that would be very hard to explain to the FBO , your boss , or the insurance company . Trashing the gyros would be cheaper . If you 're not lucky , the wings fold up and you fall out of the sky . It 's a stupid way to die . Non-aerobatic aircraft typically have limited elevator authority ; once upside down , you might find it very difficult to keep the nose pushed up high enough to keep the roll going . Turning a botched roll into a " split-S " is one of the worst " recovery " mistakes you can make , and you 're setting yourself up for it . Non-aerobatic aircraft often have gravity-feed fuel systems . A little bit of 0 or negative " G " and it will get very very quiet in the plane . Some people consider this silence detrimental to the continued safety of the flight . Non-aerobatic aircraft rarely have inverted oil systems . As the engine gets quiet , it also loses most of its lubrication . Bare metal on metal friction can be detrimental to achieving <URL> . Having said all that , in the hands of an expert , it is technically possible to barrel roll most aircraft . A good way to tell if you 're an expert is to call your insurance company and tell them exactly what you plan to do . If they 'll quote you affordable coverage , you might be an expert . Obligatory links because if I do n't include them someone else will : <URL> . I 'm pretty sure he 'd never get away with this today . <URL> . Bob Hoover is beyond expert . Way , way , beyond expert . If you want to roll an airplane , contact your local aerobatic club . In the US and some countries , it 's the <URL> . Get some competent dual instruction in a suitably rated airplane .
FORTRAN is not used much that I 'm aware of in aviation , but it is significantly used in aeronautical engineering . I work with people that use Mark Drela 's ' xfoil ' , ' xrotor ' and ' aswing ' programs on a daily basis for the design and analysis of airfoils , propellers and aerostructures . And I 've used the ' CHARM ' model of rotorcraft dynamics . All of these are written in FORTRAN and you often need to know the language to debug them or integrate them into other programs e.g. for global design optimization .
Speed of a plane is actually measured in a number of different ways , and relative to different things . Here is a summary of the different types : Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) . This is the number shown on the instrument that measures airspeed , and is n't really relative to anything . Rectified Airspeed ( RAS ) or Calibrated Air Speed ( CAS ) This is IAS corrected for known errors in the instrument and the measurement system . True Air Speed This is the speed relative to the air around the aircraft ; usually found by correcting the RAS for pressure and some other errors . Ground Speed This is the speed relative to the ground , or a fixed point on the earth ( ' imaginary grid ) . Its the vector addition of the True Airspeed ( and direction ) plus the wind speed ( and direction ) . In olden days this was estimated from the Airspeed and the wind velocity , or through dead reckoning navigation , but now it is trivially found from GPS or other navigation aids . Planes use different ones of these for different purposes . Measurements relative to the fixed stars are not generally useful until you are in the realm of space travel .
FAA Because it is a fixed value at 18,000 feet . ICAO-style and Jeppesen They show the TA ( and sometimes the TL ) on SID charts . ICAO Annex 4 confirms the depiction on SID charts ( chapter 9 ) : 9.9.4.1 The components of the established relevant air traffic services system shall be shown . ( ... ) 5 ) transition altitude/height to the nearest higher 300 m or 1 000 ft ;
No : that does not count as night flying . The <URL> ( Air Navigation Order , Article 129 ) as : ' Night ' means the time from half an hour after sunset until half an hour before sunrise ( both times inclusive ) , sunset and sunrise being determined at surface level ; Similarly , the FAA 's definition ( FAR 1.1 ) is : The time between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , as published in the American Air Almanac , converted to local time . Since an eclipse is neither a sunset or sunrise , nor does it happen between evenings and mornings , it does not fit the definition of " Night " for legal purposes .
Note that this answer was given to the original question , The question was subsequently edited , after this answer was accepted . Much of the information provided in this answer does not now apply directly to the current question , but it does serve to provide context and for this reason it has been retained . Pilots use trigonometry primarily for calculations involving wind angles , either for navigation or for cross-wind components for takeoff or landing . Note that pilots often accomplish these calculations with a flight computer such as the <URL> , a circular slide rule : <URL> Image by Dave Faige -- <URL> -- used under <URL> Many such flight computers are available , including electronic versions , such as the <URL> . Personally , I now prefer to use web-based software , but in flight school my preferred calculation method was a <URL> programmed to do vector addition and other pre-flight calculations . In the cockpit , the <URL> -- a pocket version of the larger E6B mechanical flight computer and which can be operated with one hand -- is usually the most functional method . Regardless of how they are performed , such calculations are typically for the purpose of either : Calculating wind correction angles for cross-country navigation based on forecast wind conditions , or Calculating crosswind component for takeoff or landing based on reported wind conditions . The later are fairly straight-forward ; the former are more complex . Crosswind component is a simple tangent calculation . Wind correction angles are more complex involving vector addition taking into account magnetic course , true airspeed , forecast wind angle , and forecast wind speed . Now , the original question was merely , do pilots need to use trigonometry . The answer to that question is , " Yes " . The question has since been edited to specify the use of trigonometry " directly , with trigonometry knowledge " . The answer to that question is , " No " , pilots do not need to have a working understanding of trigonometry , though they do need to be capable of computing the above described wind problems . A pilot need not understand the trigonometry used by the calculator , slide rule , or FMS that he or she uses to perform these calculations . I know good pilots who have no real working knowledge of trigonometry and do quite well without it . For a pilot flying in the IFR environment , wind correction calculation is less frequently a needed calculation since most navigational means provide for wind correction in some way . This is especially true of GPS or RNAV navigation , because the ground track can be compared to the aircraft 's heading to show wind correction angle .
I 'll expand on the other answers here . Wind : The biggest factor in this is wind . Winds at common cruising altitude can sometimes reach well into the 100 Knot spectrum . Keep in mind that this can be in any direction . So lets say a long haul flight has a 100 Knot headwind half the year and a 100 Knot tail wind for the other half . That 's a 200 Knot ground speed difference which can really make an impact on flight time . ATC Holds Vary : ATC for various reasons may put a plane into a holding pattern on arrival . This may add to the time spent in the air for a given flight depending on the hold . Landing Slots : There are <URL> here in the US ( and presumably others elsewhere ) that require planed ahead landing slots . If the slot time changes but the departure time remains the same an airline may chose to slow the plane a bit ( or speed it up a bit ) to compensate . Aircraft Loading : Aircraft efficiency ( and subsequently speed ) will vary a bit with the loading of the aircraft . Since not every flight on a given route is loaded equally there may be efficiency gained or lost as a result of loading .
The reason for not using full aircraft parachutes can be stitched together by looking at the many related questions . Let me do this for you : Parachutes will only help when something essential fails at <URL> . As paul said <URL> , most accidents happen at take-off and landing where a parachute can not be successfully deployed . Parachutes big enough to slow down a whole airliner will be very heavy , reducing payload and increasing the number of flights to transport the same number of passengers . The biggest parachutes designed so far were for the <URL> , and <URL> gave their mass a 3 x 990 kg plus 550 kg for the drogue chute . Wikipedia gives the mass of one SRB at 91,000 kg . Scale this for the zero-fuel mass of an <URL> of 62,500 kg , and the mass will be approx . 2,500 kg . That is equivalent to 25 passengers , or 16 % of the A-320 's capacity . Adding the parachute will translate into 16 % more flights , just to compensate for parachute mass . This is most likely underestimating the true impact because I did not add the mass for structural reinforcements . The opening shock at travel speed would destroy both airplane and chutes . If we want the parachute system to work in as many cases as possible , we need to make deployment possible at up to Mach 0.85 , and then the maximum g-load on aircraft and passengers must not exceed 6 g. ( See <URL> for <URL> which give time - and direction-dependent limits for the maximum deceleration a human being can survive ) . This is possible with staggered deployment of several chutes with increasing size , and by sewing parts of the canopy and the parachute 's strings together , so they can rip apart during opening , which slows the unfolding process . But I expect that this will add to the mass of the parachute system . It will certainly add to the mass of the aircraft 's structure , which is currently limited to <URL> g. By looking at point 2 above alone , it becomes clear that the addition of parachutes will most likely drive up air travel casualties . If we need 16 % more flights to make the cruise part less dangerous , and still <URL> ( which are now 16 % more numerous ) , we gain little . Crashes now involve less passengers , but their number goes up . Tickets will become 20 % more expensive at least ( more if the parachute system costs something , which is very likely ) , and we all know how the majority of passengers votes when faced with a choice of dearer , somewhat safer flights and 20 % cheaper flights at almost the same accident risk .
Let 's say you have two aircraft that will reach the same point in space at the same time , and your job is to keep them three miles apart . One way to do it is to calculate how many knots the second aircraft should reduce their speed so that at the time the first aircraft reaches the point , the second aircraft will have fallen three miles in trail . Unfortunately for you , this means that you have to work a time-speed-distance-wind problem for every single aircraft that you , as a controller , handle . Alternatively , you pick a point three miles away and tell the second aircraft to fly there . Air traffic controllers are human , and humans are better at angles than we are at numbers . The simplest thing for controllers is usually the best thing - they 've got lots on their mind already without making them do math too ! This might change in the NEXTGEN air traffic network ( where everyone has a GPS position and speed readout right there on the screen ) but for now , easy is better than hard .
The size of the bomber formations ( bombers streams ) varied significantly depending on the number of bombers , the time , location and other things . The most common figure quoted figure is around 70 miles long and 5-6 miles wide ( for ~ 500-600 bombers ) . However , the formation 's footprint depended on a number of factors ranging from the navigator 's skill to the wind in that area . The figures vary wildly . For example , from the book <URL> : The stream of more than one thousand Eighth Air Force bombers , from one end to another was 360 miles long . ... on ... February 3 , 1945 , when the first flying fortresses reached Berlin , the last bomber was over the Zuiderzee in Holland . This extreme length is a consequence of the situation late in the war , where allied air armada roamed European skies without bothering much about the Luftwaffe . The time spent over the target , on the other hand was quite small - ... each Fortress crew would spend only between thirty and sixty seconds over the center of Berlin itself ... Note that there was no such thing as precision bombing in WWII ( except for some special cases ) , though the accuracy did improve over the war . Of course , some of this was due to the way the ' target ' was designated - anywhere 1000 ' of the aiming point was good enough . From <URL> : Conventionally the air forces designated as " the target area " a circle having a radius of 1000 feet around the aiming point of attack . While accuracy improved during the war , Survey studies show that , in the over-all , only about 20 % of the bombs aimed at precision targets fell within this target area . A peak accuracy of 70 % was reached for the month of February 1945 . Accuracy of RAF night bombing improved from ~ 20 % in 1942 to > 90 % in 1945 . Of course , the British target was comparatively larger - anything within a 3 miles radius of the aiming point was a ' hit ' .
In the examples cited , there is a slight increase in Density Altitude ( DENALT ) , which results in a slightly higher TAS . As the air becomes thinner , fewer molecules pass by the aircraft per mile , resulting in a lightly less loss due to drag . Increased temperature does not have the same range of change as altitude , however , it is nonetheless a higher DENALT , which is thinner air . As an aside , in practice , you will note that the throttle becomes wider open with less dense air , until it is fully open . ( Note that RPM is not the primary measure of power , rather fuel burn is . RPMs will become higher at higher DENALT for the same power . ) At that point there will be no more available power , and any increase in temperature or altitude can not be compensated for by increasing the throttle setting . You will also note that less energy is expended per mile at higher DENALT , not factoring in the cost of a climb to that altitude . Finally , a different practical example of this : When flying in icing conditions , conditions ( and the POH ) may call for continuous carburetor heat at altitude . When this is done , the engine should be releaned , as the DENALT will be higher , and if uncompensated for , will result in a rich mixture which could foul spark plugs .
If you are unsure whether your SELCAL equipment is properly working , you can request a on a HF-enabled radio frequency . The ATC unit will send out your SELCAL code for testing purposes . I 'm not sure my selcal unit is working , is there anywhere I can test it ? Yes , several places . If you are located in : Europe or east of 30W on the North Atlantic , call Stockholm Radio Eastern USA/Canada or west of 30W on the North Atlantic , call New York ARINC Western USA/Canada or Pacific , call San Francisco ARINC Asia - daylight hours , call Singapore or Manila Radio on 8942 KHz USB [ ... ] All selcal checks are free of charge - just call the station with the aircraft registration mark and when you receive a reply ask for a selcal check and give your selcal code . The operator will send out your selcal tone and - assuming the selcal unit is working - you will hear a chime in the cockpit . Acknowledge by replying ' selcal check okay ' and you 're done ! If your selcal check does n't work the first time it is worthwhile asking for a ' double ' which means you get 2 sets of tones sent out back-to-back and often cures any issues . ( Source : <URL> )
There is a description of this route page <URL> . <URL> The scan is not good , you may get the textual content <URL> . It says terrain following activities may take place , as well as visual contours ( which I assume to be navigating without radar , looking at the outdoor and searching in a catalog the same relief contour to know where you are ) . As you commented , taking into account the local relief : For terrain following should be for newbies . For visual contours navigation should be for top-guns only . There are different routes like this , starting from nowhere and ending in the Smoky MOA . They seem to be routes avoiding nearby airfields . On the image below , I 've emphasized the area without airfields , including MOAs . It looks like IR-504 is drawn along the centerline . <URL> Based on <URL> Other possible selection criteria : Unpopulated areas ( noise from low flying jets ) Low radio noise areas . Flat terrain for UAV training .
Nope , pilots do not use autopilot to fly in formation . An autopilot can not achieve the precision required for flying formation ( e.g. keep the wingtip aligned to that door ) . Usage of autopilot would also hinder responses when an immediate correction is necessary . You may refer to the TV episode Jet Stream and Blue Angle training videos on the internet . From the pilot 's perspective , the planes are always moving around , though in a confined space . Continuous small adjustment is necessary . From the ground , the small floating can not be noticed visually because the observer is too far away . P.S. Based on my 17 years of experience with PC flight simulator , flying in formation in multiplayer is definitely doable , and can become second nature with practice .
Retrofitting is ( as the comments to your post have already stated ) rather difficult and unusual . In addition , the quality of service from such an aircraft you could expect to get would most probably not be great . Analogy : Try changing your minibus for 9 people into minivan for freight and industrial work . It is also worth mentioning that the difference in operation is substantial between bombers and commercial jets . You would be better off using something that is not that complicated , like a Cessna Caravan for instance . I think that energy , time and money would be better spent on building more dedicated aircraft . Changing the commercial ones is also not trivial and will require engineered changes . It is however fully possible to design a military derivative of a commercial jet . The <URL> is an example of this , being based off the Boeing 737 with the necessary modifications . The armament is also fairly extensive : 5 internal and 6 external stations for AGM-84H / K SLAM-ER , AGM-84 Harpoon , Mark 54 torpedo , missiles , mines , torpedoes , bombs , and a High Altitude Anti-Submarine Warfare Weapon system [
end question
start question
How can I determine takeoff and landing from an ADS-B feed ?
It depends on the type of ADS-B feed you have . On the lowest level , the messages transmitted from the aircraft , usually contain information about the air/ground status of the aircraft1 . When the aircraft is airborne , Airborne Position Message are transmitted ( types 9 - 18 or 20 - 22 ) for position and altitude . Airborne velocity is in message type 19 . On the surface , message types 5-8 are used to transmit both surface position and movement . So by looking at the raw messages , the transition between airborne and surface type indicates landing , vice versa in indicates take-off . This is accurate for most larger aircraft , smaller aircraft and helicopters do n't always have a weight-on-wheel switch or similar device that is used to toggle the air/ground status . In these case speed may be used as trigger which is a less accurate indicator . If you do n't have access to the raw messages , you have to find an other way to do it . Typically ADS-B feeds for air traffic control consist of <URL> reports . If you have an ASTERIX category 021 data stream , the air/ground status of the aircraft is included in Item I021/040 , first extend , bit 7 - Ground Bit Setting ( GBS ) . If you have a stream with only latitude , longitude and altitude , then I would try to use the altitude field . On the surface there is no altitude transmitted ( it is not in message type 5-8 , the bits are used for surface movement ) , so if the altitude is no longer there , you can expect the aircraft to be on the ground . However , this depends of course on the implementation of the ADS-B decoder ; it may just give stale altitude data instead of blanking the altitude on the ground . If you do n't have good detection near the landing zone , you can try to extrapolate the altitude graph from the final approach section and based on that estimate when / where the landing would be . You may want to adjust for the flare if you need to . 1I am assuming 1090ES ADS-B here which is the defacto global standard ; UAT and VDLm4 technology varieties of ADS-B also contain air/ground status but in a different manner .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
Yes , there is other signals broadcasted by aircraft , although not by all . In the General Aviation sector , at least in Europe , an on-board device known as <URL> is being used mostly in Gliders , Helicopters , Single-Engine Piston aircraft and touring motor gliders . FLARM is an electronic device to selectively alert pilots to potential collisions between aircraft . It is not formally an implementation of ADS-B , as it is optimised for the specific needs of small aircraft such as gliders , not for long-range communication or ATC interaction . You can <URL> and you can also feed the data to sites like flightradar . Related Answers to FLARM : <URL> <URL>
It depends on the type of ADS-B feed you have . On the lowest level , the messages transmitted from the aircraft , usually contain information about the air/ground status of the aircraft1 . When the aircraft is airborne , Airborne Position Message are transmitted ( types 9 - 18 or 20 - 22 ) for position and altitude . Airborne velocity is in message type 19 . On the surface , message types 5-8 are used to transmit both surface position and movement . So by looking at the raw messages , the transition between airborne and surface type indicates landing , vice versa in indicates take-off . This is accurate for most larger aircraft , smaller aircraft and helicopters do n't always have a weight-on-wheel switch or similar device that is used to toggle the air/ground status . In these case speed may be used as trigger which is a less accurate indicator . If you do n't have access to the raw messages , you have to find an other way to do it . Typically ADS-B feeds for air traffic control consist of <URL> reports . If you have an ASTERIX category 021 data stream , the air/ground status of the aircraft is included in Item I021/040 , first extend , bit 7 - Ground Bit Setting ( GBS ) . If you have a stream with only latitude , longitude and altitude , then I would try to use the altitude field . On the surface there is no altitude transmitted ( it is not in message type 5-8 , the bits are used for surface movement ) , so if the altitude is no longer there , you can expect the aircraft to be on the ground . However , this depends of course on the implementation of the ADS-B decoder ; it may just give stale altitude data instead of blanking the altitude on the ground . If you do n't have good detection near the landing zone , you can try to extrapolate the altitude graph from the final approach section and based on that estimate when / where the landing would be . You may want to adjust for the flare if you need to . 1I am assuming 1090ES ADS-B here which is the defacto global standard ; UAT and VDLm4 technology varieties of ADS-B also contain air/ground status but in a different manner .
It is usually required to file a flight plan for international flights ( with very few exceptions ) , and I 'll assume this is the case for Canada/US as well , but I 'm not 100 % sure of this . In this case you have two options You close your flight plan and let ATC or FSS know where you are , they 'll note it 's an international flight that landed somewhere without customs , and you 're likely to end up in trouble . You do n't close your flight plan , and you 'll trigger a search-and-rescue operation as you 'll eventually be overdue , drawing attention to yourself , and you 're equally likely to end up in trouble . Not to mention that you 'll probably be liable for the cost of the search-and-rescue . You could of course file a plan with a drastically reduced TAS , do a very quick stop , and arrive at the original destination within the grace period . I do n't know if that will trigger any surveillance systems though . If you do n't file a flight plan and cross the border anyway , I 'm guessing that you will indeed trigger some alerts though .
Yes , night landings satisfy the requirements of § 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) for both nighttime and daytime currency . The wording of the regulation is not crystal clear , and some ( including me ) have thought that the wording of ( a ) ( 2 ) required daytime landings for daytime currency . This is not the case , per the following interpretation from the FAA ( Springfield , IL FSDO , dated 16 April 2014 ) : Please note , in this section , there is no mention of a day or night differences in the regulation . In 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) the regulation specifically mentions the requirement for Night Takeoffs and Landings and the time period they can be completed in . If the passenger carrying will be done at night , the additional requirements of 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) must be met . The night takeoffs and landings , as required by 14 CFR 61.57 ( b ) , will qualify for both the day and night requirement , provided all other requirements are met . The day takeoffs and landings will NOT qualify for the night ( section ( b ) ) requirement though . Stanley E. Swank II Aviation Safety Inspector Springfield , IL FSDO , AGL-19 Other sources on the Internet agree with this interpretation : <URL> : ... your three takeoffs and landings to a full stop at night will also fulfill the recent flight experience requirements for day currency . <URL> .
By regulation , a " weight &amp; balance " must be computed before departure to ensure that the weight is within the weight limits for a number of different conditions and that the weight is distributed such that the c.g. ( center of gravity ) of the airplane is also within the longitudinal c.g. limits for those conditions . That c.g. is typically computed assuming the the passengers are in the seats they have been assigned . If the passengers are seated elsewhere , the computed c.g. is not accurate . In other words , the pilots would n't know where the c.g. is or whether it is even within limits . The takeoff trim setting is affected by the c.g. . If the pilots set the trim according to the computed value , and the c.g. is considerably aft of that , on liftoff the nose is going to want to pitch up more than the pilots expect . If the c.g. is so far aft that it is well beyond the aft limits , serious control problems can occur . If the c.g. is far forward of what the pilots are expecting , they 're going to have to pull harder on the elevator control than expected to get the aircraft to rotate , and that is going to extend the takeoff roll . Different makes of aircraft vary widely in c.g. limitations and how tolerant they are limit wise of passenger placement in aircraft that are not full . For example , when I was flying Metroliners , if you had few passengers , you had to ask them to sit toward the rear . I once got a strange look from Rosey Grier ( Google him if you do n't know who he is ) when I had to ask him to sit in the back of the aircraft . Once you 're in the air , the movement of passengers is of lesser concern balance wise . You 're at speed , the elevator is fully effective , and the pilots or the autopilot keep the airplane in trim . In other words , the trim is what it is rather than a computed value that might not reflect reality . Also , on large aircraft , once you 're in the air in level flight and if you 're so inclined , you can work out your weight by using your fuel flow , pressure altitude , and airspeed . Then with the weight and your trim setting you can come up with your c.g. I would guess that most of the glass cockpit aircraft probably do that for you automatically if you request it . My experience stopped with the 747-200 , which is now a near relic . The c.g. limits are defined conservatively , and usually in terms of the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord . It 's not a case of that if the aft c.g. limit is 33 % mac ( a common value for 747s ) and you 're at 33.1 % you 're going to crash . It 's just a case that you 're beginning to move into an area that gives you a lesser degree of controllability than is deemed necessary for some situations . Continued movement to an extreme value would eventually make the aircraft uncontrollable . Insofar as the bags-left-behind part of the question , I do n't think their absence would cause a problem . If the computed c.g. including the bags was right right up against the aft c.g. limit , their absence could conceivably put the c.g. beyond the aft limit . The pilots might notice it , but handling it would not be difficult . However , aircraft are typically not loaded such that their c.g. is close to a limit . A preferred aiming point for 747-100s , -200 s , and -400 s is 26.6 % mac . Just for the heck of it , I did a weight &amp; balance for a 747-400 , loading it so that the takeoff c.g. was 26.6 % mac . I then took 5000 lbs ( 100 bags x 50 lbs each ) out of the most forward baggage area . This changed the the c.g. to 28.0 % mac , still within limits . On the 747 , a given weight of baggage misplacement has less potential to affect the c.g. than the same weight of passenger misplacement because the passenger seating extends over 20 feet forward of the most forward baggage compartment and over 17 feet aft of the most aft baggage compartment .
I guess this will vary from airport and scenarios . Say if you are in a small Cessna on a little grass-strip : They will most likely always listen to you . However , In a passenger jet , on a busy airport : Things fast get a little more complicated . It is very expensive for an airliner to hold a plane , and even more to ground it . And it affects more people than it would with the Cessna scenario . If you tell , say the flight attendant while the plane is rolling down the taxiway that you hear abnormal sounds : They will likely misinterpret you as nervous and will most likely ignore it . But if you can somehow socially convince them : It is still the captain that makes the end decision about turning around . I do n't know if this has actually happened before other than in the article mentioned in the question . If there is something wrong about the plane : The captain will likely know well before you do . The engines have so many sensors and fail-safes that the captain will likely have the fault displayed in the cockpit before you even notice something unusual , and he will probably make the decision before you even reach a flight attendant .
I 'm not an expert in 3D geometry , so I 'll only explain the methods detailed in : <URL> . Two DME ranges and aircraft altitude When the slant distance has been determined using a DME station , the aircraft is on a sphere centered on the station . By interrogating two stations , two intersecting spheres are determined . If the aircraft is located on the line between the two stations ( the baseline ) , then the intersection is a single point , else the intersection is a circle ( pink in the figure below ) . <URL> Taking into account altitude , only two points of the circle ( green in the figure below ) correspond to a possible aircraft location . Ambiguity One of these points is the true position , the other is the " ambiguity " , symmetrical to the true position relative to the baseline ( gray ) . The ambiguity will appear in the method when using $ arcsin $ function , which will give two angles for the same value . There are multiple possibility to eliminate the ambiguity : Monitor the progress of the aircraft and keep the point which motion matches the heading . For example on the top view , if the aircraft flies north , the top point moves north while the bottom point moves south . The latter is indeed a wrong position . A predictive <URL> can detect such anomaly . Use a third DME : The third DME matches a single point . DME accuracy must be taken into account , and the best result will be obtained when the third DME is abeam the aircraft position , between the two first DME stations . Such position maximizes the difference between the two possibilities . Use a VOR collocated with one of the DME . Position determination : Overview of the method The problem of DME/DME/Elevation location boils down to : <URL> Two DME stations U and S : latitudes , longitudes and altitudes are known ( $ \ small L_U , \ lambda_U , h_U $ and $ \ small L_S , \ lambda_S , h_S $ ) Aircraft A : altitude is known ( $ \ small h_A $ ) The slant distances are measured ( $ \ small d _ { UA } $ and $ \ small d _ { SA } $ ) C is Earth center ( Earth radius is $ \ small R_e $ , and P the ground projection of the aircraft position . The manual suggests these steps : Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle We know the altitudes and the slant ranges : It is possible to calculate two geocentric angles $ \ theta _ { SA } $ ( SCA ) and $ \ theta _ { UA } $ ( UCA ) . For each DME $ x $ : $ $ \ theta _ { xA } = arcsin \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ sqrt { \ frac { ( d _ { xA } - h_A + h_x ) ( d _ { xA } + h_A-h_x ) } { ( R_e + h_x ) ( R_e + h_A ) } } \ right ) $ $ Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations We now need to calculate the geocentric angle $ \ theta _ { US } $ between DME stations : $ $ sin ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ theta _ { US } ) = \ sqrt { sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( L_S-L_U ) \ right ) + cos ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) \ right ) } $ $ where $ \ small L_U $ and $ \ small L_S $ are latitudes of U and S and $ \ small \ lambda_U $ and $ \ small \ lambda_S $ are longitudes of U and S. ( You get $ \ small \ theta $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) The method also provides equations for the determination of the azimuth at the extremities of the baseline between U and S , let 's calculate one : $ $ tan ( \ psi _ { S/U } ) = \ frac { cos ( L_S ) sin ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } { sin ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) - cos ( L_S ) sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ psi _ { S/U } $ using $ \ small arctan $ . ) Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed This step check wether the ranges are meaningful , i.e. the two DME range spheres intersect . If they do n't ( and this should never happen ) , there is no solution . The DME spheres are depicted by the geocentric angles $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } $ and $ \ small \ theta _ { SA } $ : If $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } + \ small \ theta _ { SA } < \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then the spheres do n't intersect ( too remote ) If $ \ left | \ small \ theta _ { UA } - \ small \ theta _ { SA } \ right | > \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then spheres are concentric , they do n't intersect . Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA This step allows for the determination of any angle of the triangle USA , we need only one : $ $ cos ( \ beta_U ) = \ frac { cos ( \ theta _ { SA } ) - cos ( \ theta _ { US } ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { sin ( \ theta _ { US } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ beta_U $ using $ \ small arccos $ . ) Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Azimuth angles : If A is south of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } + \ beta_U $ $ If A is north of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } - \ beta_U $ $ Aircraft latitude $ \ small L_A $ : $ $ sin ( L_A ) = sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) + cos ( L_U ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) cos ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) $ $ ( You get $ \ small L_A $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) Aircraft longitude $ \ small \ lambda_A $ : $ $ tan ( \ lambda_A - \ lambda_U ) = \ frac { sin ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { cos ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta
There are many details to recognize , for example : The handle that locks the doors . <URL> <URL> Another way is to read the safety card , on them , you can read clearly if you are on a Boeing or Airbus , and on which type as well . The first picture is a typical Boeing 's door , and the second , an Airbus ' . ( source internet pictures from different types of handles ) On Airbus A32F , when the landing gear extends , the exit lights will turn on . The cabin interior differs from company to company , however the cockpit is unique , but nowadays , passengers are not allowed to visit the cockpit during the flights . If you seat on the seats , from where you can identify the winglet , they could give you some tips , most of the Airbus A32F have shark winglet , but it is changing , however , scimitar winglets are typical from New generation Boeings 737 .
No , this is not being planned as a future update . The current ADS-B mandates of USA and Europe foresee ADS-B version 2 ( EUROCAE ED-102A / RTCA DO-260B for 1090ES ) to be implemented in 2020 . Work on the development of version 3 of the standard has started but the retransmission of received data is not foreseen currently . Because of 1090 MHz spectrum overload , integrity , security and latency issues I do n't think it is a particular good idea either . For oceanic areas ADS-B coverage will be provided by satellites equipped with ADS-B receivers . <URL> is a company that will use the <URL> to provide oceanic ADS-B coverage for ADS-B .
Yes , squawk codes are still used and required with ADS-B . It 's possible that in the future this may change , but because of the bifurcated implementation the FAA has chosen for ADS-B I do n't think it 's likely . ADS-B operates by giving additional information beyond the Mode A ( squawk ) code - this is either encoded on the 1090MHz transponder frequency ( Mode S " Extended Squitter " - what most of the world uses ) or sent on a separate frequency ( the 987MHz " Universal Access Transceiver " frequency , which is a US/FAA only thing mainly intended for light GA aircraft ) . The Mode S and Extended Squitter data includes things like the aircraft 's unique Mode S address ( a 24-bit number assigned to the aircraft by its national registry , in the US this is linked to the N number ) , and may also provide the tail number or flight number . The ATC radar system will accept and display this information for the controller . At the moment the Mode S/ES data is not used as a substitute for the Mode A transponder code , but because Mode S data is coming through the ATC secondary radar system it 's all immediately available with the secondary radar return the same way a Mode A squawk code is , and it 's possible that the FAA may use the Mode S ID in place of the Mode A squawk code for these aircraft in the future . The 987MHz UAT transmissions also include the Mode S address ( because it 's a useful unique identifier for a given aircraft ) and flight ID/tail number can be sent as well . Information from UAT transmitters is received through separate ground stations and recombined with the radar return in the ATC radar back-end . There 's some magic to that recombining which is out of my depth , but my limited understanding is that since the UAT data is n't directly correlated with a radar return squawk codes are part of how the two are matched up ( the radar computer knows your N number by your discrete squawk code , the UAT ground station knows it from your Mode S ID - if they match and the position data is within reason the ADS-B information can be associated with your radar data block ) .
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
While still in the airspace , you should contact the controller if you can , since it may be important to safety . After landing , you may get the dreaded phone number from a controller ( probably tower or ground ) which you 're supposed to call and speak with someone from the FAA . You should not volunteer any information about the incident during this call without talking to a lawyer or AOPA legal services first . Then , most importantly , fill out a report in the <URL> . Any information you submit will not be used against you in an enforcement action by the FAA , and in many cases , people who volunteer information through the system receive much softer treatment , and sometimes forgo enforcement all together . The reason the FAA incentivizes this self-reporting is so they can better collect information about accidents which inevitably happen . If they know why you accidentally strayed into the bravo , maybe they can improve procedures or charts to help keep other pilots from making the same mistakes .
There are quite a lot of differences , some more subtle than others , but I tend to find this is the best angle for identification : the side view . Although as we 'll see later in this answer , the top/bottom view has a fairly obvious difference , and there 's a clue that we can use to identify from the front or rear <URL> So what are you looking at ? On the left is the Hurricane . It 's slightly larger than the Spitfire , although that 's not always a great help from distance . Perhaps more usefully , the fuselage is fundamentally different shape : I 'll elaborate on this in several areas where we can directly compare . Firstly , the rear fuselage . At first glance the two are very similar , but the Hurricane has a much more pronounced " drop " to the tail , while the Spitfire 's is a " rise " . What do I mean by that ? Follow the line of the top of the cockpit canopy : the Hurricane 's fuselage behind the canopy drops away , while the bottom of the fuselage is relatively flat . On the Spitfire , it 's reversed - the top of the fuselage follows the line of the canopy , while the bottom comes up to meet it . It 's a subtle difference at first glance , but once you 've seen it once it 's a very clear distinction . When looking at the Hurricane 's rear fuselage , it almost appears to have a " dog leg " , where the rearmost area drops in relation to the middle of the aircraft . The Spitfire 's follows a much more continuous line The Spitfire is also clearly much more sleek - it 's a " pencil " shaped fuselage , long and thin and curvy . The Hurricane is more blunt and " solid " . Other differences ? Look at the tail . The Spitfire 's is relatively small and curves upward from the top of the fuselage in a smooth curve , while the Hurricane 's comes off at a sharper angle . Similarly the Hurricane 's horizontal stabilizer is higher - almost in line with the top of the fuselage . The Engine cowling shape , as with the cockpit , is different : where again the Spitfire 's continues a nearly straight line from the bottom of the cockpit , the Hurricane 's has a distinct curve . If you can get closer , you will also note that the Hurricane 's fuselage is almost " ridged " - it 's a metal frame with a fabric covering , and that gives it a bumpy appearance , vaguely visible on the above photo . <URL> What about if you ca n't get a side view , though ? Here 's the Spitfire ( below ) and Hurricane ( above ) from the front ... but you can see the same from the rear Well from the front , there 's a single very nice clue under the fuselage : the radiator housing : that box-like structure hanging from the bottom of the plane . The Hurricane has one , and it 's on the centre of the fuselage . The Spitfire 's is not , it 's under the right wing . On some later models , there are two , one under each wing . The next photo is included mostly for the wing shape , but the aforementioned radiator boxes are visible too : from this , we can tell the Spitfire is a relatively late war model : a Mk IX ( 9 ) onward : although there are other subtle clues that suggest this is a much later model ... the 5 bladed propeller indicates a Griffon engine , so a Mk XIV ( 14 ) or later . Anyway , we can see the Hurricane 's single centre radiator , and the Spitfire with one under each wing <URL> And finally , how about the bottom ? Well , the Spitfire 's wing is extremely distinctive : it has an " Elliptical " wing , shared with only one or two other aircraft . Once you can recognise the Elliptical wing , you can recognise the Spitfire very easily in flight . The Spitfire 's wing , particularly the trailing edge , is very curved compared to most other contemporary aircraft . The Hurricane 's wings are much more conventionally shaped , with both leading and trailing edges being straight ( a trait shared with aircraft like the Typhoon/Tempest , P-51 , Me109 , A6M " Zero " and most other aircraft from the WW2 era ) <URL> Late War Spitfires ( the above is a Mk 22 ) are even more distinctive : they have a " bubble " canopy that protrudes entirely from the fuselage .
The key when selecting an aviation mechanic or shop to maintain your newly purchased plane is " time in type " : You would not take a Cessna 172 to the United Airlines maintenance facility at JFK , not would you take an A380 to the local Cessna service center ( even though it would be perfectly legal to do so ) . If you 're buying a new aircraft ( of any type ) the manufacturer will be able to recommend an authorized service center for you , and you 'll probably want to use an authorized service center ( especially for warranty work ) . If you 're buying a used aircraft you can still contact the manufacturer and ask about authorized service centers . They will usually be happy to give you a list of places near you that can work on your aircraft , and who are blessed by the factory to perform warranty service , complete mandatory service bulletins where the manufacturer is supplying parts / covering labor , etc. . Aside from manufacturer recommendations there are a lot of other ways to find a maintenance shop that beat simply asking Google and picking one at random . For the most common single-engine piston aircraft ( your typical Piper Cherokee , Cessna 172/182 , etc. ) you can almost certainly find a mechanic at your local general aviation airport - ask the FBO where you 're storing the plane for recommendations or talk to other pilots on the ramp about who they use for maintenance . For more esoteric aircraft ( high-performance singles , twins , vintage/classic/warbirds , etc. ) your best resource is often a type club ( e.g. . <URL> for Beechcraft Bonanzas , or <URL> for the Piper Comanche ) - Google can help you track down a type club , and the members can help you find mechanics who have experience working on your particular airplane . Type clubs are also a great source of other information ( like where to find parts ) .
The CVR and FDR have impact switches to stop recording when they experience high acceleration . In incidents and accidents that do n't involve high enough acceleration , the plane remains intact enough for the boxes to be immediately found and switched off manually . In more serious crashes , the boxes stop recording because of the physical destruction of everything but the memory units ( only the memory units are built to survive crashes ) .
In April 2013 , the FAA 's Charting Group <URL> . The standard pattern used to be 800 ft AGL , and the <URL> ( formerly called Airport/Facility Directory or A/FD ) was inconsistent in listing them . Ultimately they decided : Chris Criswell , AJV-22 , reported that , per ACF recommendation , all traffic pattern altitudes , standard and non-standard , will be added into NASR ( the AFD ) for all airports . This will be a day forward implementation beginning in July 2014 . Some other places the TPA is recommended to be 1000 feet AGL : <URL> c . It is recommended that airplanes observe a 1000 foot above ground level ( AGL ) traffic pattern altitude . Large and turbine powered airplanes should enter the traffic pattern at an altitude of 1,500 feet AGL or 500 feet above the established pattern altitude . A pilot may vary the size of the traffic pattern depending on the aircraft 's performance characteristics . The Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will typically list the Traffic Pattern Altitude ( TPA ) if it is non-standard ( not 1000 ft/1500 ft AGL ) The FAA 's <URL> says The traffic pattern altitude is usually 1,000 feet above the elevation of the airport . Now the Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will be the definitive guide !
The short version is no the Stratus will not meet the requirements , and for several reasons . The final rule requires ADS-B OUT ( and the Stratus is only ADS-B IN ) that meets particular TSO requirements ( see below ) , and portable units will not . The FAA has an <URL> on their website which has a lot of great ADS-B information . The minimum equipment required to meet the mandate is addressed by : What equipment is required by the new rule ? The rule specifies ADS-B Out equipment compliant with either Technical Standard Order ( TSO ) - C154c ( Universal Access Transceiver ) or TSO-C166b ( 1090 ES ) . However , to operate in Class A airspace , aircraft are required to equip with avionics certified to TSO-C166b . The FAQ also specifically addresses the question of portable units and says that they will not be allowed : Will the FAA allow portable/handheld units , or will they have to be panel mounts only ? Installed transponders and GPS units must meet certification standards . Handheld devices and displays that serve only for situational awareness have more flexibility and are not certified installations . In order to comply with 14 CFR § 91.225 and 91.227 aircraft intended to fly in ADS-B airspace must have installed and certified equipment . Portable installations are not compliant to the rule and would only be usable for receiving FIS-B services for situational awareness . The FAA is in the early stages of investigating a portable device for glider aircraft .
I ca n't say for sure , but I would assume that the pattern-based drills were removed because of the new emphasis on scenario-based ( " real world " ) training the FAA has been moving toward : While Pattern A and Pattern B are useful for honing your skills ( and I 'll even admit they 're kind of fun to fly ) they 're not something you 'll fly in the " real world " - you are unlikely to string together that particular set of elements in that particular order on any kind of regular basis . That does n't mean the Pattern A / Pattern B maneuvers are not useful tools or that the FAA " frowns on " them - they really do n't care how you acquire the skills necessary to pass your checkride and if flying Pattern A / Pattern B helps then by all means fly your heart out ! Just know that when you take your checkride you will not be asked to " Fly Pattern B " - it 's not an element of the practical test . A copy of the maneuver diagrams for Pattern A and Pattern B can be found in Gleim 's <URL> handout , which also has some valuable notes on how the maneuvers should be performed . Personally I prefer the diagrams from <URL> because I find them a little easier to read ( Patterns A &amp; B are listed as Patterns D &amp; E respectively , except the Gleim version of Pattern B includes a descent &amp; go-around at the end of the hold ) . I 've reproduced the Pattern E diagram below in case any of the links above break . <URL>
end question
start question
Is a single engine failure on the HondaJet recoverable ?
There would not be much point in having two engines if a single engine failure would be unrecoverable . In fact , that would make the plane twice as likely to have an unrecoverable event ! If one engine has a 1/1million chance of failure , then the chance of failure of at least one of 2 engines is 2-in-a-million . ( technically , slightly less than 2-in-a-million ... but close enough ) And if either engine failure is catastrophic , then you 've doubled your chances of losing the plane.I do n't know about the HondaJet in particular , but by logic and statistics , I can say that a single engine failure must be recoverable .
Perusing the A380 Training Guide , Edition 01 , 01 Sep 2008 , Section 5 - Engine Starts , Subsections 5.8.6 ( Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ) , 5.8.6 Engine Start Valve Stuck Closed ECAM actions -- ENGINE MASTER OFF . Check MEL , and in conjunction with , advise LAE of situation in preparation for Start Valve Manual Operation . For Start Valve Manual Operation on Engines # 2 and # 4 , the adjacent engine ( if already running ) will require shutdown , to enable LAE 's access to the manual start override procedure on the port side of the affected engine . As the CAB Pb on the RMP is common to the Cockpit , Ground and Cabin Crew , advise the Cabin Crew to refrain from using the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . When ready , accomplish normal engine start sequence : a ) Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . b ) Engine Master Lever to ON . c ) Command LAE to OPEN START VALVE AND KEEP OPEN . d ) At 50 % N3 , command LAE , START VALVE CLOSE . e ) Monitor engine parameters closely until stabilized . Advise Cabin Crew upon completion of procedure . In flight , only windmilling start will be available . Glossary ( correct if needed , please ) : ECAM = Electronic Centralised Aircraft Monitor LAE = Licensed Aircraft Engineer CAB = Cabin Pb = Pushbutton RMP = Radio Management Panel IGN = Ignition N1/N2/N3 = N1 is LP ( Low Pressure stage ) , N2 is IP ( Intermediate Pressure stage ) , N3 is HP ( High Pressure stage ) MEL = Minimum Equipment List ECAM will display " ENG MASTER X ... ... OFF " ( X will be the engine with stuck valve ) <URL> ( The message will appear in the lower left quadrant . ) Check the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) to determine if loss of engine is GO , GO IF , or NO GO , if failure is not in the MEL , it is classified by default as NO GO . Advise the on-site Licensed Aircraft Engineer ( LAE ) of the warning message in preparation for completing the Start Valve Manual Operation procedure . If the engine with the stuck valve is # 2 ( left side inboard ) or # 4 ( right side outboard ) , the adjacent engine will be required to be shutdown before commencing the manual start procedure . ( This is because the engineer has to access the left side of the engine and for safety 's sake the other engine , which would be gehind him must be shut down . If the fault is on the left outboard ( # 1 ) then the engineer would be on the far side of the engine from the # 2 so # 2 does not need to be shutdown . ) Since the Cabin Pushbutton ( CAB Pb ) on the Radio Management Panel ( RMP ) is common to the Cockpit , the Cabin Crew area AND the Ground circuit , the pilot should advise the Cabin Crew to not use the Cabin Interphone during the procedure . ( If the pilot and the engineer are discussing starting the engine ( or not ) they do n't want a flight attendant to be talking about starting pre-flight stuff at the same time , if the engineer heard the word start , he might wrongly assume it was the pilot . ) When pilot and engineer are ready , begin the normal engine start sequence with changes : a ) Turn the Engine Start Selector to IGN/START . <URL> b ) Flip the Engine Master Lever ( For the faulted engine ) to ON . <URL> c ) Over the interphone , command the engineer to manually open the start valve and keep it open . ( I have n't yet looked for and found a schematic for an example engine , sorry . As shown in other diagrams/answers , it might be a socket wrench , etc. ) d ) Watch the Engine Warning Display . <URL> <URL> Once N3 is spun up to 50 % , over the interphone , command the engineer to manually close the start valve . e ) Monitor the engine parameters closely until all are properly stable . f ) After the engineer has closed up the engine and vacated the area , start the other engines , if one was shut down per step 3 . Over the cabin interphone , notify the cabin crew that the procedure is complete . ( so they can resume using the interphone if needed . ) If the engine failed in-flight and upon restart a stuck valve warning was shown , all of the above would not be possible . At that time , the only way to restart the engine would be to attempt a windmill start ( using the flow of air through the engine to turn the engine ) , there are other procedures for that . Also , I do not yet have the engine schematics to show what the LAE actually does .
For subsonic aircraft , the nacelle lips need to be blunt and well rounded to accommodate the different flow regimes encountered during flight . At take-off ( right side of the image below ) , the engine will suck in surrounding air , so the stagnation line of the intake flow is well outside of the center of the lip , whereas in cruise ( left side of the image below ) only the center stream tube of oncoming air is ingested , and much of the air flowing towards the nacelle is spilled over the sides . Accordingly , the stagnation line is well inside of the lip 's center . A sharper lip contour would lead to flow separation due to the small radius ( and hence the rapid change in direction ) the flow would have to endure . <URL> Image from Aerodynamic Design of Transport Aircraft by Ed Obert , 2009 Added to this is the influence of angle of attack , which will shift the stagnation line up or down on the lip . Sideslip will shift it left and right . Nacelles are mounted far ahead of the wing not only for flutter suppression , but also to reduce the wing 's influence on the intake flow . I doubt that the added variations of sideslip would be stronger than those of angle of attack , so I agree with @fooot that more bluntness on the side is unusual . Earlier designs used less blunt lips and had problems with flow separation in the intake at low speed , which led to the addition of <URL> . Today , the intake is optimized with <URL> and this means that the radius may be continuously changing over the circumference , due to the influence of wing and fuselage on the flow around the nacelle . Here I have to disagree with @fooot , because accessories are mounted close to the engine , and intake lips are quite a bit ahead of the engine face in order to equalize the flow . The flow speed at the engine face is around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 , so the intake has to accelerate or decelerate the flow quite a bit , without separation or much cross flow . A lot of that happens already outside of the intake , but still needs some intake length , and most accessories are so far away from the intake lip that they do not influence it 's thickness .
There would not be much point in having two engines if a single engine failure would be unrecoverable . In fact , that would make the plane twice as likely to have an unrecoverable event ! If one engine has a 1/1million chance of failure , then the chance of failure of at least one of 2 engines is 2-in-a-million . ( technically , slightly less than 2-in-a-million ... but close enough ) And if either engine failure is catastrophic , then you 've doubled your chances of losing the plane.I do n't know about the HondaJet in particular , but by logic and statistics , I can say that a single engine failure must be recoverable .
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
On modern turbojets the bypass air provides ( at least ) two things Thrust The air does bypass the engine core , but it is accelerated by the N1 fan and provides thrust as it is expelled rearward out of the engine . Thrust from the bypass air can contribute more than half of the total thrust produced by the engine ( upwards of 80 % of the total thrust for some engines in certain phases of flight ) . Part of the reason the bypass air is so efficient is that much energy is extracted from the core exhaust to spin the high and low pressure turbines ( dual spool ) that drive the N1 fan and the N2 compressor stages . Engine cooling and noise reduction Cool bypass air can be mixed with the hot air that went through the core at the rear of the engine . This mixing cools the engine exhaust and reduces the jet engine noise resulting from the rapid expansion of that air once it leaves the engine . The cool bypass air flowing around the engine core can also be used for general engine cooling .
There is an aircraft with a single engine in the middle of fuselage - the <URL> - and it has the wingspan of a 737 . <URL> Global Hawk and B737 ; image from reddit . For the engine to power an airliner the size of 737 , it would have to be more powerful and huge . This leads to a few issues : It is going to eat up cabin space . In an age where airlines are finding creative ways to squeeze more people into the available space , this is a no-go . The large engine means that there should be sufficient clearance between the engine and the fuselage - else , it would result in more drag and reduced thrust , thereby reducing efficiency . Increasing clearance is quite difficult for fuselage mounted high bypass engine due to weight implications . Passengers in rear seats may not have a pleasant journey due to engine noise . Mounting the engine in rear incurs weight penalty through various ways - you have to strengthen the rear fuselage and at the same time , you lose wing bending relief , requiring strengthening and you have cg issues . Mounting engines above the fuselage is a not maintenance friendly either . Just to note , redundancy and safety are significant issues , especially in a commercial airliner .
The afterburner , of course . In simplest sense , the afterburner is just an extension attached to the engine where the fuel is dumped into the exhaust , resulting in an inefficient but huge increase in thrust . <URL> Turbojet with and without afterburner ; image from <URL> In the above image , you can see the basic schematic of the afterburner - it basically consists of a long tube placed in between the turbine and the nozzle in which additional fuel is added and burned . The ( afterburner ) tube is quite simple , consisting of mechanisms to spray fuel into the exhaust and ignite it . This image shows an actual afterburner , from the F/A -18 ( F404 engine ) . As you can see , its quite simple . <URL> ... sailor Ryan Draper ... inspects an F/A -18 afterburner in the jet shop aboard the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS George Washington ( CVN 73 ) . Image from <URL>
There are a few ways the aircraft engines can be mounted on the centerline , each with its advantages and disadvantages . <URL> Photo courtesy <URL> . One way is to mount them as in DC10 , with engine above the fuselage ; another one is to use a 'S ' shaped inlet and put the engine at the aft of the fuselage like <URL> . The main advantage of mounting the engine as in DC10 is that the inlet distortion is minimized and there is no need to cut a hole through the fuselage for putting engine . The main disadvantages are that it increases drag ( slightly ) and engine maintenance is a mess . Apparently , the DC10 engineers <URL> to put all three engines in the wing during design , but were not successful . Engines mounted in high thrust line like DC10 and <URL> are highly stabilizing as increase in engine thrust causes a pitch down motion as the thrust is increased . This is usually disconcerting to the pilots , who expect the aircraft to pitch up while engine power is increased . Finally they ended up adding <URL> to correct this in PA47 ( to make it pitch neutral ) . In DC10 , a combination of underwing and high thrust line engines would 've most probably caused no pitch changes at all . So I guess the main advantage is reducing inlet distortion . As MD11 was developed from DC10 , it simply inherited this design . Note : As for the pitch down moment being disconcerting to the pilots , it is better if someone corroborates it . It is simply that most aircraft do n't do this .
There are two factors which limit the possible speed of piston engines : <URL> , and relative speed of moving parts , here the pistons in their cylinder barrels . If the engine runs too fast , the flame front originating from the spark plug will not have traveled far enough to have burnt most of the fuel by the time the piston moves down again . This puts a fundamental limit to the growth in power output over speed in piston engines . Also , if the relative speed between moving parts is too high , the lubrication will fail and the parts will overheat quickly . In order to run at the highest possible speed , <URL> used castor oil , which in turn motivated early aviators to wear long scarves over their mouth so their digestive system would not be compromised by sitting right in the exhaust stream of their engine . Today , lubricants have improved but still set a clear limit to the maximum speed at which a piston engine can be run . Cooling can be managed by pressurizing the cooling system and improving radiator and pump performance while inertial loads on the engine components can be dealt with by lightweight , high-strength materials . Reducing the <URL> will allow a higher speed before the ignition limit bites while reducing the <URL> will reduce piston speeds , again allowing a higher engine speed before lubrication fails . An optimimized engine will balance both so that the possible speed can be fully exploited . For the IO-360 and IO-540 , those dimensions are 5 ⅛ " and 4 ⅜ " , respectively . This places them below the <URL> and closer to the typical <URL> . I could not find reliable data on the engine speed of <URL> , which should come close to the maximum sensible engine speed at that size class . The best I could find was the 3,700 RPM of the <URL> , an engine with 5.9 " bore and 6.5 " stroke , so I would guess by using good fuel and lubrication , the Lycoming might end up somewhere between 4000 and 4500 RPM . I 'm sceptical that much useful power can be extracted at 5000 RPM and am sure that the lifetime at this speed will be measured in minutes , not hours .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
Not yet . To look at a medium-range aircraft , let 's base the engine on the <URL> or the <URL> . Those engines produce between 100 and 150 kN static thrust . In cruise , their thrust is <URL> due to the low density in cruise altitude and due to them moving at Mach 0.8 . Let 's use a value of 25 kN - this is enough so that two of them will comfortably push an <URL> class airframe through the thin air at altitude . The power to produce such an amount of thrust is force times speed . The speed when flying with Mach 0.8 in <URL> is 240 m/s , so the power produced by one engine is 6.0 MW . Now <URL> an electric motor has to be to produce 6 MW continuously . As you can see from the linked Wikipedia page , the results are all over the place . Big , industrial motors come in at less than 1 kW/kg , so our motor would weigh more than 6 tons . The smaller motors for electric airplanes are pushing 10 kW/kg , the power-to-weight ratio of the <URL> , but will lose some of that when scaled up to size . Remember , even at 98 % efficiency the motor will generate 120 kW of heat - this needs to be removed , and operating in thin air does n't make this easy . With current technology the motor could achieve maybe 2 to 3 kW/kg - this means the motor driving our hypothetical engine comes in at 2 to 3 tons . Add to this the fan and the fairing of the jet engine ( we will not need the high-pressure part and all the turbines ) , but double the fan weight because we need to compensate for the missing high-energy core flow . This will maybe weigh 50 % of the CFM56 / V2500 , so we need to add another 1.2 tons . The electric motor will be twice as heavy as the parts it replaces . There is still some work to do before it can gain an advantage over current jet engines , but it has some potential because it does not dump half of the energy supplied to it overboard in a hot , fast-moving , noisy gas stream . EDIT : Since so many people get excited about me omitting the energy density aspect of electric propulsion , even though the question did expressly desire to leave this out , here are two things to consider . Energy density is only half of the problem of electric storage . The <URL> of jet fuel is around 43 MJ/kg , while Lithium polymer batteries achieve not even one MJ/kg . But this comparison is linear thinking - realistically , the current will be produced either by a high-efficiency turbine-generator combination , or by fuel cells , burning hydrogen at twice the efficiency of a conventional jet engine . Since hydrogen packs 142 MJ per kilogram , at twice the efficiency the electric airliner would need only 162 kg of hydrogen for every ton of kerosene in a conventional jet . Yes , I know , even then its volume will still be a problem . If any form of batteries is used , the fact that empty batteries weigh as much as full ones is the final nail in the coffin of battery-powered flight . While your average long-range jet <URL> , the battery-powered jet would need to schlepp those heavy batteries all the way to the final destination . To be competitive , those hypothetical batteries would need to have twice the energy density of kerosene .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
Sounds like a <URL> to me . <URL> image source : <URL> , photographer : Chris Finney
Yes . <URL> Top result : <URL> Perhaps the most intriguing product floated by HBC at its NBAA press conference was a single-engine turboprop . The company says the airplane has no public name or designation but will " absolutely , " said Holcombe , be " called a King Air . " That name , of course , has never been bestowed upon a single-engine airplane before . This King Air , however , will be no scaled-back PT-6 single . Like the remarkably roomy and powerful Pilatus PC-12 , the Beechcraft single will be big . Its fuselage will be -- get this -- based on that of the Premier 1A , which , HBC claims , has the best cabin of any bizjet in its class . It will certainly be huge for a single . In addition to the voluminous cabin , the single would feature a large side loading door , room for eight to 11 occupants and industry-leading pressurization . The composite fuselage allows for efficient pressurization . HBC says it will build the fuselage in the same way it builds the Premier 1A today , using state-of-the-art winding technology for extremely light and strong composite structures . <URL>
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
The TBM 900 holds the title of <URL> for <URL> . It has a top cruise speed of 330 knots at FL280 . <URL>
In the light aircraft world there are a few trade-offs to consider . The short version : Single-Engine Pros : Simplicity One engine means fewer controls , a simpler fuel system , simpler vacuum system , simpler electrical system , etc. . Operational cost Only one engine to feed , so you spend less on - fuel &amp; oil per flight . Maintenance cost Only one engine to maintain - One set of spark plugs &amp; cylinders , One engine to overhaul . Single-Engine Cons : No redundancy : You have one engine , if it fails you 're a glider . Singles generally tend to have less spacious cabins than twins . Twin-Engine pros : Redundancy If you lose an engine the other will give you a chance to get to a landing site . Cabin space If you step up beyond " twin trainers " you can get a very nice cabin in a piston twin . Equipment Again , if you step up beyond the " twin trainers " twin-engine planes tend to be " traveling aircraft " , so they often come with nice features like deice/anti-ice equipment . Twin-Engine cons : Operating costs Two engines to feed ( fuel &amp; oil costs double ) . Maintenance costs Two engines mean twice the cylinders , twice the spark plugs , etc. . Complexity The redundancy you can get in a twin comes at a price : Synchronizing the propellers , a more complex fuel system ( crossfeed ) , paralleling alternators , vacuum system failover , etc. . Short and Soft field performance can be lacking . Failure of an engine <URL> . In addition to the operational considerations there are some other practical items to consider : twin-engine aircraft require a multi-engine rating ( which means more training time ) . Twins will also generally be more expensive to purchase/rent ( and may be more difficult to rent when away from home ) , and will likely cost more to insure ( particularly for low-time pilots ) .
The valves will not be able to maintain cabin pressure until the plane descends to 10,000 feet at best glide speed . The oxygen masks will deploy before then . At least that was the case for <URL> , an A332 that ran out of fuel over the Atlantic and glided to a deadstick landing . The <URL> on page 96 ( see the table ) estimates that oxygen masks deployed at 06:37:50 , when the cabin altitude reached 13,500 ft. This was about 11.5 minutes after fuel exhaustion , and only 7-8 minutes before landing at 06:45 . So they would have landed within the 10 minutes of supplemental oxygen . Even a much longer glide would have allowed them to descend below 10,000 ft before the supplemental oxygen stopped . TSC 236 is AFAIK the longest glide in a transport category aircraft to date , so if they did not " encounter a situation where they have to choose between oxygen and best glide " ( to use your phrasing ) , then probably no one else did either . Note : The report used the ' worst case ' leak rate of 700 ft/min for their calculation . The footnotes explain that the leak rate would decrease as the aircraft descended ( because the pressure differential between the cabin and the outside would decrease as the aircraft descended ) . If anyone is interested , there is more info on pages 28-29 of the report about the cabin pressurization .
For the complete electrical failure in the aircraft , the following systems have to fail : The onboard power generation system , usually a synchronous generator has to fail in all the engines . The APU ( Auxiliary Power Unit ) has to fail . The RAT ( Ram Air Turbine ) should fail to deploy . The batteries and static inverters should fail ( this wo n't help in controlling the aircraft , just added for sake of completeness ) . The probability of this happening is very very low , and can be discounted . It is more probable that some other system ( for e.g , hydraulics ) fail before this happening . So far , to the best of my knowledge , no complete power loss has been reported in any fly by wire aircraft . The reason the Airbus aircrafts are controllable in case of electrical failure is due to the fact that the fly-by-wire system has multiple redundancies that offer layered protection : Normal Law offers all the protections ( like stall , load factor etc ) . This is the system in operation during normal flights . Alternate Law offers limited protection including stability , load factor and stall protections Abnormal Alternate Law limits the load factors and offers yaw damping only Direct Law is the lowest level of fly-by-wire system and directly transmits the pilot inputs to control surfaces , while still giving stall and load factor warnings In case all these fail , the system reverts to mechanical backup , where pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer and lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . In case of mechanical backup , the system will operate as long as hydraulic power is available . In case of electrical failure , as long as hydraulics are OK , the pilot should be able to control the aircraft . However , usually , if there is no power , there is no hydraulic pressure ( except reservoir , maybe ) and the control is lost . In case of the <URL> , only hydraulics was lost and power was available . There are some more points to consider in case of total electrical failure . In case the control surfaces are moved by electric power ( like 787 ) , power loss means loss of control . Power loss implies that the engine thrust can not be controlled ( of course , the engines wo n't be operational in that case anyway ) . Some fly-by-wire aircrafts are unstable by design . In these cases , any power loss will lead to loss of control and crash . I 'm not sure there is any direct mechanical linkage in civil airliners . The amount of force required to operate such a system would be enormous . Bottom-line is , in case of complete power failure , the aircraft is as good as dead . One example is a Fairchild Swearingen Metroliner ( which was not fly-by-wire ) , that <URL> due to a lightening strike . The aircraft entered into a uncontrolled flight , which loaded the aircraft beyond limit , resulting in its disintegration .
end question
start question
What are the differences between a GPS coupled autopilot and a GPSS autopilot ?
GPS units paired with older autopilots such as the S-TEC 30/50 mentioned here do not automatically give GPSS steering to the autopilot unless the GPS has a GPSS system built in . In this case the additional GPSS unit swaps between traditional NAV/APR/BC modes that seek using deflection from the CDI and GPSS steering which is data-driven straight from the GPS . It is possible to get a PFD that has GPSS built in as well ( Aspen Evolution ) and takes care of this functionality . A functional difference between these two systems is demonstrated as such with a Garmin GNS-530W / 430W and an STEC-50 autopilot with the separate GPSS unit : 1 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS off ( or not installed ) the autopilot treats the GPS input signal as a CDI input - in other words , if there is a course change of greater than 10 degrees in either direction the autopilot will follow no guidance and do whatever it wants to , for example ignoring a 90 degree right turn in the flight plan ( other than making an initial heading change of a few degrees while attempting to track as the CDI quickly goes full deflection ) and then continuing on in whatever random way it wants without following guidance or a flag showing on the CDI ( there is no flag because the guidance is present , but it 's out of range just like a VOR signal would be ! ) . Accordingly all major course changes must be executed manually or in heading mode by hand then the autopilot is engaged in NAV mode to track the course once it is captured and within 10 degrees of the present course . 2 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS on the GPSS unit sends direct roll steering commands to the autopilot that are extremely accurate . The autopilot must always be in HDG mode to accept these inputs . The heading bug on the DG or HSI is effectively ignored while GPSS is engaged . Here 's an example : while tracking a course ( or really at any point in flight ) , selection of a 90 degree right turn ( say , direct to ) in the GPS will result in direct roll steering commands being given to the autopilot and the autopilot executing those commands and following them extremely closely within the parameters of the autopilot design ( standard rate turn , etc. ) , resulting in an automatic turn to the new course , including automatic intercept of that course if the GPS performs that function , and any following courses and changes being flown precisely and automatically as they are sequenced in the flight plan . Source : I now own an aircraft that has this system and operate it all the time .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
PNR is a passenger 's / party 's record . PNL is the full list of all the PNR 's . Example : John Smith is a party of 1 , that 's the PNR entry . And he is number 7 on the PNL .
Turning on the autopilot is generally a single button or switch , but with a caveat . That big panel with the altitude selector , heading bug , nav options , etc programs the flight director , which is most likely enabled prior to even taking off and pre-programmed with your initial altitude leveloff , departure heading , etc. . While hand flying the pilot not flying who is operating the radios will update the flight director settings as your ATC instructions vary . This is generally updating altitude , heading and engaging nav . When it is time to let Otto fly , at that point it is just a single button to slave the autopilot to the flight director .
Normal autopilots do n't . They expect all systems to work correctly , and in case of failure of a single control surface they will stubbornly command actions which are no longer possible . For them , thrust is only for controlling the vertical speed , and the application of asymmetric thrust for yaw control is not possible . There are experimental autopilots which compare the result of their actions with a number of pre-programmed scenarios and select for their next commands the scenario which agrees best with reality . These really do what you assumed , but the specific scenario must have been considered before so the specific control laws are part of the code . Computers small enough to be carried on airplanes became powerful enough to do this in real time maybe 20 to 25 years ago , but I am not aware that regular autopilots of airliners have this capability even today . It is , however , used for unmanned vehicles .
Generally speaking a checklist is an actual list of items to check , and a flow is a pattern of movement across the aircraft controls ( switches , dials , etc. ) which will accomplish some subset of the items on a checklist . A flow should be essentially " muscle memory " for a pilot and performed by rote , where a checklist may be more detailed and include more specific guidance . As you can probably tell flows and checklists are closely related ( with flows usually being derived from checklists ) . The two are complimentary tools that are used together : A pilot will follow a flow , and then verify that the required items have been completed using the checklist . In larger/more complicated aircraft it 's not possible to fully memorize some of the checklists , so flows are used to accomplish the " red box " immediate action items before proceeding to the full checklist . As a simple example , consider the engine power loss flow &amp; checklist for a Piper Cherokee . Engine Power Loss Flow ( Red Arrow &amp; Numbers ) Mixture ( Set appropriately - usually " Rich " ) Throttle ( Set appropriately ) Carb Heat / Alternate Air ( On ) Magnetos ( Both ) Electric Fuel Pump ( On ) Primer ( In &amp; Locked ) Fuel Selector ( On a tank that has fuel ) Manufacturer 's Engine Power Loss Checklist ( Blue Numbers ) Fuel Selector - Switch to a tank containing fuel . Electric Fuel Pump - On Mixture - Rich Carb Heat - On Engine Gauges - Check for an indication of the cause of power loss Primer - Check Locked . If no fuel pressure is indicated check tank selector position to be sure it is on a tank containing fuel . Ignition Switch - " Left " then " Right " then back to " BOTH . " Throttle and Mixture - Different settings . ( This may restore power if problem is too rich or too lean a mixture , or a partial fuel system restriction . ) Try another fuel tank . ( Water in the fuel could take some time to be used up , and allowing the engine to windmill may restore power . If power loss is due to water , fuel pressure indications will be normal . ) <URL> In this example the flow accomplishes nearly all the checklist items , but it does so moving over the panel in one direction . As a practical matter the flow is accomplished by just moving your hand along the bottom of the panel : " Push the mixture . Push the throttle . Pull the carb heat . Twist the mag key . Flip all the switches UP ( on ) . Pull the primer and make sure it does n't move . Move the fuel selector lever to the other tank . " Completing the flow takes less than 10 seconds and can be done with one hand while your other hand is pitching for best glide speed . The manufacturer 's checklist for an engine power loss moves around the panel in a more haphazard way , but it also adds a few items ( checking the engine gauges &amp; fuel pressure indication ) , and provides more specific guidance on possible causes like fuel contamination ( water in the fuel ) &amp; how to deal with them . These items could be important if the memory items from the flow do n't restore engine power , assuming you have time ( altitude ) to spend troubleshooting them .
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
Lycoming engines have the camshaft above the crankshaft , and Continental engines have the cam below the crankshaft . This seems to keep the Conti cams better oiled and therefore less susceptible to corrosion .
Since you are studying maintenance , I would suggest you obtain a copy of ATA iSpec 2200 , Information Standards for Aviation Maintenance ATA Standard Numbering System . Most large aircraft manufacturers and airlines use the ATA Standard Numbering System in organizing their maintenance documentation . To your specific question , the ATA spec lists the following : The FMS is the primary tool for managing the navigation . It is part of the larger Navigation system which includes the aircraft attitude , air data , and positioning sensors . The FMS supports flight planning ( path definition ) and integrated position determination . Chapter 34 NAVIGATION , section 60 Flight Management Computing . That portion of the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft 's geographical position or theoretical flight path . Includes items such as course computers , flight management computers , performance data computers , and associated control display units , warning annunciators , etc. . The FM function outputs a desired path and guidance data to the displays and AFCS . The FMS is one source of path and target ( altitude and or speed ) data for the AFCS . The other input source is by crew input via the Mode Control Panel ( MCP ) . The AFCS is functionally independent from the FMS and primary flight control system ( FCS ) , though it is sometimes physically integrated with one or the other or both . The AFCS has two major components , autopilot and auto throttle . Autopilot includes the Flight Director . Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 10 Autopilot That portion of the system that uses radio/radar signals , directional and vertical references , air data pitotstatic , computed flight path data , or manually induced inputs to the system to automatically control the flight path of the aircraft through adjustment to the pitch/roll/yaw axis or wing lift characteristics and provide visual cues for flight path guidance , i.e. : Integrated Flight Director . This includes power source devices , interlocking devices and amplifying , computing , integrating , controlling , actuating , indicating and warning devices such as computers , servos , control panels , indicators , warning lights , etc. . and Chapter 22 AUTO FLIGHT , section 30 Auto Throttle That portion of the system that automatically controls the position of the throttles to properly manage engine power during all phases of flight/attitude . This includes engaging , sensing , computing , amplifying , controlling , actuating and warning devices such as amplifiers , computers , servos , limit switches , clutches , gear boxes , warning lights , etc. . The AFSC computes the necessary control inputs to fly the aircraft along the defined path and meet targets . It provides control inputs into the flight controls ( ATA Chapter 27 ) or in the case of the Flight Director , it generates a display that directs the pilot to make the needed control inputs . This steering will steer the aircraft to the path defined by the FMC , or it can steer to a simple path entered by the pilot directly into the AFCS via the MCP . In older aircraft , the autopilot steers by using a series of special actuators to manipulate the controls . In modern fly-by-wire aircraft , it provides input directly to the FCS as the FCS already has the necessary actuators . Auto Throttle provides throttle adjustments to meet speed targets from the FMC or MCP . By the ATA standard , the FMS , AFCS , and FCS are three distinct systems . As noted above , modern fly-by-wire systems are beginning to blur the boundaries . Without the need for separate actuators for the AFCS , it just becomes software much of which is getting merged with the primary FCS .
Multiple-engine configurations use multiple freewheeling units that couple the rotor with the engine and allow the first to revolve faster than the latter but not the other way around . If just one of the engines fails , the freewheeling unit for that particular engine will effectively disengage the engine from the rotor ( as the rotor is now revolving faster than the failing engine ) , allowing the other engine ( s ) to drive it . How a freewheeling unit functions on a mechanical level is described on page 6 of <URL> document .
On a pilot-vs-FBW system perspective , as mentioned in the comments to the question , the most notable difference is the authority priority : Boeing trusts more the pilots : they can supersede the Fly-by-wire automatic commands by exerting enough force on the controls Airbus trusts more the FBW system : if the system is fully functional ( " Normal law " ) it will always have priority over the pilots to protect the aircraft and keep it in the envelope , but they still have room for " non-standard " maneuvers , e.g. commanding bank angles between 33 ° and 60 ° . The autopilot can be activated and de-activated at will by the pilots , and it sits on top of the FBW envelope protection . One of the most famous examples where this comparison emerges ( and the subsequent debate about which approach is better ) is the <URL> accident . I wo n't go into detail , there is the <URL> that will provide much more information that I can remember , but suffice to say that this 747 was recovered from a quite unusual attitude As mentioned in the wiki article , the report states that the passengers were subject up to 5 gs during the maneuver and the stress on the horizontal tail surface has been so great that as a result it was damaged : The usual argumentation goes along the lines that , would this had been an Airbus , the pilots would not have been able to save the aircraft . See for example <URL> at page 184 of the pdf , section 6.2.3 " Pilot Authority at the Boundary " : It is likely that if the aircraft had prevented the crew from initiating control commands that would lead to aircraft damage , the aircraft ( and passengers ) would have been lost . The problem with such a comparison ? It focuses on the recovery after the unusual attitude was achieved and totally forgets about the sequence of events that lead to it or , to the very least , assumes that an Airbus would have responded in the same way to the preceding events ( then why make a comparison at all ? ) An honest comparison would take into account this and acknowledge that an Airbus in Normal Law would not enter a spiral dive in the first place , even with an engine out , as bank protection/attitude-hold would prevent it .
Nope , pilots do not use autopilot to fly in formation . An autopilot can not achieve the precision required for flying formation ( e.g. keep the wingtip aligned to that door ) . Usage of autopilot would also hinder responses when an immediate correction is necessary . You may refer to the TV episode Jet Stream and Blue Angle training videos on the internet . From the pilot 's perspective , the planes are always moving around , though in a confined space . Continuous small adjustment is necessary . From the ground , the small floating can not be noticed visually because the observer is too far away . P.S. Based on my 17 years of experience with PC flight simulator , flying in formation in multiplayer is definitely doable , and can become second nature with practice .
From " Smart Cockpit " <URL> ( PDF ! ) <URL> AFDS Status Annunciation The following AFDS status annunciations are displayed just above the PFD attitude display : • FLT DIR ( the flight director is ON and the autopilots are not engaged ) • A/P ( the autopilots are engaged ) • LAND 3 ( three autopilots are engaged and operating normally for an automatic landing ) • LAND 2 ( AFDS redundancy is reduced ; in some cases , only two autopilots are available ) • NO AUTOLAND ( the AFDS is unable to make an automatic landing ) . With a LAND 3 indication , the autopilot system level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not prevent the autopilot system from making an automatic landing ( fail operational ) . With a LAND 2 indication , the level of redundancy is such that a single fault can not cause a significant deviation from the flight path ( fail passive ) . An EICAS message is displayed for any fault which limits the capability of the automatic landing system . Aural alerts for EICAS messages not affecting safety of flight are inhibited until after touchdown . Changes in autoland status below 200 feet , other than a transition to NO AUTOLAND status , are inhibited . From Chapter 9 , pages 22-23
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
As you measure temperature moving at high velocities , your outside thermometer will measure a higher temp than what is actually outside ( what a non-moving thermometer would get ) . That 's because as the air rams into your thermometer it gets a little bit compressed , and that makes it heat up a little bit . Amazingly , some smart people have even calculated how much that " ram rise " is , and you can actually compensate ( well , in theory ) from the indicated temperature to calculate what the actual outside air temp is : $ $ Ram ~ Rise = SAT \ times0 .2 \ times { M } ^ 2 $ $ Where $ SAT$ is Static Air Temperature in Kelvin , $ M$ is Mach number Problem is , not all instruments will compress that air in the same way , and not all of them will pick up this Ram Rise entirely . So they will publish a $ K$ , a ram-rise-coefficient ( also called recovery factor ) meaning how much of from the theoretical Ram Rise they actually pick up . ( OAT/SAT ) Static Air Temperature = noted as $ T_S $ , actual temperature of the air outside , the same your thermometer will pick up if you were not moving ( say , in a balloon ? ) ( RAT ) Ram Air Temperature = noted as $ T_M $ , actual measured temperature by your instrument . $ $ RAT = SAT + k \ times { Ram ~ Rise } $ $ ( TAT ) Total Air Temperature = noted as $ T_T $ , total temperature as measured by an instrument with $ K$ - coefficient of $ 1 $ . $ $ TAT = SAT+R am ~ Rise $ $
Just toe brakes . Typically the instruction between line-up-and-wait and clearing for takeoff is very short , maybe ten seconds . In simpler aircraft , the parking brake just " pinches " or closes off the brake fluid line to keep the wheel brakes held , but in the fly-by-wire airliners , the parking brake just clamps the normal wheel brakes as if the toe brakes were held .
These are indeed related to MRO activities . Line maintenance generally refers to minor , unscheduled or scheduled maintenance carried out on aircraft that occurs at or near the gate or terminal ( Tarmac ) , launch area , ready area , hardstand or alert area . This is usually carried out by the operator . This is the basic level of maintenance and is limited by the ground support equipment available . Third Party Base Maintenance refers to the base maintenance ( i.e. maintenance done in aircraft hangar with special tools ) carried out by a third party - other than the manufacturer and the operator . This is usually the next level of maintenance . Component maintenance refers to the maintenance carried out on some component removed from the aircraft ( for e.g. rotable or LRU ) due to fault or completion of specified service time in a dedicated shop or lab . These are usually done for avionics units , engines , transmission items etc. . This is usually done by the OEM or their authorized agent .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
end question
start question
Is the landing gear controlled by the pilot or is it automatic ?
The landing gear system is operated by the pilots . The extension and retraction , depend on the action from the pilot monitoring , on 2 pilots operation . The pilot has a lever on their panel , on which they select the extension ( down ) and/or retraction ( up ) . Some aircraft has a system to avoid extending them on high speed , to avoid some damage , and on the ground , avoiding retracting , for obvious reasons . There are lights , green and red , indicating their position . <URL>
The landing gears are manufactured by Messier-Dowty , a Safran group company . According to <URL> , Safran Landing Systems is responsible for the design , development , qualification testing , manufacture and support of the main landing gear for the A350-900 aircraft . Also , Safran Landing Systems also provides wheel and carbon brakes for the A350 , as well as the landing gear extension-retraction system , monitoring system , steering system and braking system . The landing gear design <URL> : The A350-900 main landing gear ... includes the increased use of advanced materials , in particular high strength titanium , corrosion resistant steels and HVOF coatings . <URL> A350 landing gear materials , from <URL>
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
Weight , cost , reliability and maintenance . See <URL> Safety See <URL> In terms of safety several aspects can be highlighted : As far as power source redundancy is concerned the number is increased from 3 to 4 since 2 electrical systems replace 1 hydraulic system . Furthermore an additional margin of safety results from the introduction of the hydraulic/electric dissimilarity in the power sources : This provides further protection against common failures , such as maintenance errors , which may affect all the hydraulic systems , whatever their number . Moreover the electrical power provides flexibility in routing , resulting in an easier segregation of power distribution routes against engine burst and other " particular risks " , and an isolation and reconfiguration capability that hydraulic systems can not offer . The reduction in the total number of hydraulic components results in improvements of the MTBF and dispatch reliability , by elimination of potential leakage sources . The elimination of the generation and distribution components associated to one of the hydraulic systems ( pump , reservoir , filters , plumbing ... ) and the replacement of the associated hydraulic actuators by electrically powered actuators results in weight savings .
Really depends on what you are flying , what 's growing , what season and what the roads are like . Our Cessnas have used gravel roads a couple of times , either due to problems aloft or at the airport ( bad weather ) . In the Alberta prairies finding a side road to land on is no problem whatsoever . 100 and 200-series Cessnas have fairly narrow fixed gear that can take an amazing amount of abuse , do n't know about other types . A real cornfield , with the corn fully grown , will destroy a light aircraft . The plants are 2-3m high with a hard , heavy log of corn at the top . Hit a couple of thousand of them at 100km/h ... ( Skydiving centers in corn country have firm advice for landing in the corn : keep your legs crossed . ) Ripe canola is also nearly 2m high and is a bushy plant interwoven with it 's neighbors . You 'll probably flip over forward . Wheat is the best choice .
The tailwheel is much lighter and smaller than a nose wheel . That means reducing airplane overall weight and drag ( because the landing gear is usually fixed ) . And it 's probably cheaper , too .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
There is a weight sensor which senses if the plane is on the ground . This sensor prevents gear retraction while the plane is still on the ground . Failure of this sensor would prevent gear retraction after takeoff . If you note closely , the landing gears ( even the non-retractable ones ) are not connected using a simple metal pole ; rather , there is <URL> which is compressed by the weight of the aircraft . Besides airborne / ground detection , the struts absorb the vertical energy during touchdown . <URL> I recall some decades ago engineers experimented obtaining the plane 's gross weight by installing weight scales to each landing gear ( as opposed to just an air/ground detection ) . The readings were found to be inaccurate and they soon abandoned the idea . Landing gear stories can not be complete without mentioning this incident in 1990 : A training captain of a <URL> was betting with his students that the weight-on-gear mechanism would prevent gear retraction while on the ground . On the accident airplane type , the mechanism would lock the gear handle , but the lock can be overridden if the pilot manually pull out and move the handle . The instructor confidently pulled out the handle and to his surprise , the hydraulics started to move and the gears were retracted while the plane was still on the ground . <URL> ( <URL> ) The aircraft was written off . This incompetent instructor pilot was killed 11 years later in <URL> .
As one of my instructors was fond of pointing out , there 's pretty much a regulation for everything -- <URL> which is pretty short and to the point as far as government regulations go . The big rules regarding kites/balloons kick in for a kite " over 5 pounds " or a balloon " over 6 feet in diameter / 115 cubic feet of gas capacity " , and are : You have to keep them at least 500 feet below any clouds . You have to keep them less than 500 feet above the ground . You must be at least 5 miles from the boundary of any airport . If your kite/balloon is going to be more than 150 feet above the surface you 're also supposed to coordinate with the closest ATC facility ( who would theoretically put out a NOTAM saying " John Doe is going to be flying a kite/balloon/thingy here , between these hours . Please try not to hit it . " ) There are also some lighting requirements ( if you fly the balloon/kite at night ) , and visibility requirements ( but really , who wants to fly a kite in less than 3 miles visibility ? That seems like pretty lousy kite weather . ) As a favor to your local pilot community ( and to prevent having your wayward kite dragged off by a Cessna on short final ) it 's probably best to observe the three " big rules " above regardless of the size of your kite - a 6-ounce piece of balsa and cellophane can still make a lot of people 's days more interesting if it appears in an unexpected location .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
Except for modifications related to instrumentation , not much . The WP-3D was developed from the <URL> Orion is a sturdy platform . Used during the Cold War as an antisubmarine patrol aircraft , the plane is built to take punishment . As the <URL> The WP-3D is built like a tough old pickup truck . It can handle a lot of abuse in the storm environment and come back and fly the next day . This is mainly because of the extremely talented maintenance team at NOAA 's Aircraft Operations Center ( AOC ) Simply put , it is a normal aircraft with extensive instrumentation , albeit maintained well . The same applies for the <URL> : The 53rd WRS uses the WC-130J to penetrate tropical storms . These aircraft are not reinforced in any way in fact the only differences between a WC-130J and a C-130J is the addition of two external fuel tanks ( giving them longer range ) , a radiometer pod on the left wing and the two addition crew pallets in the cargo bay ... and of course , the instruments . Actually , the NOAA has <URL> : Why are n't NOAA 's Hurricane Hunter planes torn apart in storm ? Planes are generally not destroyed by strong winds while in flight . Airliners routinely fly in jet streams with winds exceeding 150 mph over the U.S. during the winter . It 's the shear , or sudden change in horizontal or vertical winds , that can destroy an aircraft , or cause its loss of control . That 's why NOAA 's Hurricane Hunter aircraft do n't fly through tornadoes . In a like manner , NOAA pilots and crew routinely ( but never casually ) fly in the high-wind environment of the hurricane and do n't fear it tearing the plane apart . However , they are always monitoring for " hot spots " of severe weather and shear that they can often identify on radar and avoid if it 's too severe .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
Since that 's really three questions , I 'll address them separately . 1 . Did the shuttle have or use autoland ? The space shuttle did have autoland capability , in theory . When the shuttle was being developed , it was imagined that flights could last so long that human pilots might get rusty , or have their ability to function under gravity impaired due to muscle atrophy from extended time in micro gravity . Unfortunately , testing autoland on the space shuttle was a bit risky . If anything went wrong , the shuttle has no ability to disengage and go-around , and it might be too late for a human pilot to intervene and still make a safe landing . They did try evaluating an incomplete implementation of the autoland on STS-3 , where the lineup , final approach ( outer glide slope ) , and preflare maneuvers would be performed by the autopilot , at which time the commander would take control and complete the landing . The result was one of the worst landings in the history of the program . The autopilot was unable to maintain a stabilized airspeed , at first closing the speedbrake completely , then opening it again until airspeed was low , then closing again at 4000 feet which caused the orbiter to be too fast by the time commander Jack Lousma took over . He did n't really have enough time to get a feel for the aircraft or make corrections , so it hit hard and fast . Afterwards , it was decided to discontinue testing of the autoland system , although the implementation was eventually completed . Development of an automatic approach and landing system was terminated indefinitely due to the inability to implement an FAA [ Federal Aviation Administration ] - like powered aircraft certification program for an unpowered glider like the Space Shuttle . That is , an automatic system can not be reasonably certified for an aircraft without a go-around capability in the event of an autoland system failure , because the only recourse in the Shuttle is to land rather than to execute a wave-off maneuver as in a powered aircraft . The practice of having to salvage a good landing out of a poor approach is not professionally accepted airmanship . Further , the STS-3 experience was classified as a " late-takeover " action in which a failure of the autoland system in even closer proximity to touchdown could result in an upset too late in the landing phase to be reasonably recoverable . " Monitoring " the approach versus actually " controlling " it induces a time lapse in the mental-to-physical control conversion process which increases in criticality for manual takeover as the aircraft approaches touchdown . An automatic failure on the IGS , with no recourse for a wave-off , would be unsafe compared to a totally manual - controlled approach . The quote is from <URL> where Jack Lousma gives a great description of the flight and landing a little less than half way down the page . The Columbia Accident Investigation Board Report did recommend testing the autoland system , but to my knowledge , it never was . Just to clarify , the autopilot was used for most of reentry on every flight , but I believe your question was specifically about the final stages of flight and landing . 2 . What sort of simulator was used for training ? So the shuttle was hand-flown for landing ( a fly-by-wire system , so it 's arguable that there 's no true manual mode ) , and that means pilots have to be trained . They were actually trained in several different simulators . There was <URL> ( Shuttle Avionics Integration Lab ) where they did serious integrated systems and software testing . There were also fixed and motion-based simulators in Houston . These were collectively referred to as the <URL> ( Shuttle Mission Simulator ) . These were used for training for all phases of shuttle flights , not just landing . They were particularly useful for simulating contingencies , like an RTLS abort ( return to launch site ) . It 's similar to how simulators are used in the aviation industry to train for scenarios which would be too dangerous to train for in a real aircraft . <URL> The motion-base SMS . <URL> For nominal conditions , the best simulator for landing the space shuttle was actually another aircraft referred to as the <URL> ( shuttle training aircraft ) . This was a modified Gulfstream II which would fly with its main landing gear lowered and thrust-reversers engaged to simulate the high drag profile of the orbiter . The left side of the STA cockpit was built to mimic the layout of the shuttle , including the heads up display . Images from the STA 's Wikipedia page The STA was used for both training shuttle pilots and for evaluating weather conditions at landing sites on launch and landing days . Lastly , there was also an on-orbit simulator that the pilots would use for practicing in the day or two before landing . It was basically a laptop with special flight-simulator software . 3 . Is the simulator available in any flight simulators ? The answer depends on exactly what it is that you 're asking . The actual software us
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
There are only a hand full of single pilot jets in production currently and the SJ30x seems to have the longest range by far . The other competitors in the space , the <URL> , The <URL> and the <URL> come in roughly in the 1300-1500 mile mark which is far less than the SJ30x . Depending on how far you are willing to stretch the planes you include many military fighters , <URL> ( which are generally single pilot planes ) have a range that competes with or exceeds the SJ30x . There is another caveat to this as well . All of these planes can in theory be fitted with ferry tanks which can greatly extend their range for a single mission . Its generally impractical to do this on a constant basis but it can be done in one off scenarios .
You can not ( as far as I know ) , Flush the toilets Control the IFE system ( aside from possibly pulling the breaker to shut it off ) ( there seems to be some debate on this one and it could vary by plane/system ) Open the doors ( of a passenger plane , cargo planes this may be possible ) Update the software for glass cockpit planes ( if the computers are not located in the cockpit ) . I 'm still looking for the link but FMS units are updated via USB on a unit usually housed with the other flight computers which is often below the cockpit . <URL> these units are in the cockpit as are the USB ports so this may only hold for some aircraft . General passenger tasks ( reading lights etc ) . Although it should be noted that generally speaking the master breakers are in the cockpit so while they may not have control over individual system components ( e.g. single reading lights ) they can often shut them down completely if need be . Ovens ( for heating meals ) and coffee machines . Only circuit breakers are in cockpit again ( and they are needed ; faults in these things cause relatively high fraction of diversions ) .
The flashing lights help to make the airplane more noticeable . They have also been <URL> to <URL> . This is offered as an option or <URL> for <URL> of aircraft . In addition to helping the pilots to see ahead of them when on the ground in dark conditions , landing lights help to make planes more visible to others . The FAA requires landing lights to be on for commercial flights under 10,000 feet , and <URL> at least when near an airport or in low visibility . Flashing the lights makes them less likely to be confused for something like a star at night .
When or is selected , the hydraulics pressurise in the appropriate direction . Once the gear is up and the mechanical locks are keeping the gear locked in place , can be selected to disconnect the hydraulic power .
<URL> that are capable of <URL> , and some aircraft can use this system to <URL> . However , <URL> and still has its limits , and other reasons for not always using this system are <URL> . Further reasons for this technology not being more fully developed yet are probably similar to <URL> . A completely automated , unmanned landing on a carrier has been done , <URL> . Although a computerized system is theoretically more capable of performing precise carrier landings , the details are complex . A lot of sensing and control must be worked out . The team behind the X-47B was awarded the <URL> for the advances in aeronautics they achieved . The sensors and processing that the UAV uses to do this are probably not all standard equipment on naval aircraft . Adding them would create extra expense and weight . If the system requires addition to the carrier as well , there is more added expense . And in a combat situation , do you want to rely on systems that could be jammed or failed ? If you are going to land the plane without a pilot , you might as well not have the pilot at all , and this is the route that future unmanned systems are taking , but there is a lot more work to be done before they completely replace human pilots .
No . The regulations that apply to a student pilot do not apply to the private pilot working on a new category or class rating . § 61.81 Applicability . This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of student pilot certificates , the conditions under which those certificates are necessary , and the general operating rules and limitations for the holders of those certificates . The required endorsements for a private pilot working on a new category or class rating are also different . Student pilots are required to have endorsements for pre-solo flight training , a solo endorsement each 90 days and an endorsement for each cross country . The student pilot must also abide by all the limitations placed on those endorsements by the recommending instructor . A private / commercial / ATP pilot working on a new category or class rating is required to have one endorsement . Again , any limitations placed on the endorsement by the recommending instructor must be followed . To act as pilot in command of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 Required endorsements for FAA certificated pilots are found in <URL> .
end question
start question
For light , GA aircraft , is there a " standard " turn , and what does that mean ?
The FAA <URL> defines ' standard rate turn ' as , A turn of three degrees per second . This results in the completion of a full circle in 2 minutes . Every airplane must be able to complete a standard rate turn in order to be certified . The standard rate of turn is used as the main reference for bank angle . GA aircraft are expected to turn at the standard rate of turn during holding , intercepting , tracking , approaches , departures etc. . You 're correct that the airspeed determines the turn rate . As the turn rate is standardized , the bank angle becomes dependent on the air speed . From FAA-H-8083-15A Instrument Flying Handbook , True airspeed determines the angle of bank necessary to maintain a standard-rate turn . A rule of thumb to determine the approximate angle of bank required for a standard-rate turn is to divide your airspeed by 10 and add one-half the result . For example , at 60 knots , approximately 9 ° of bank is required ( 60 ÷ 10 = 6 + 3 = 9 ) ; at 80 knots , approximately 12 ° of bank is needed for a standard-rate turn .
<URL> ( <URL> and <URL> ) See here for the major points : <URL> Regarding your specific question : Would n't a single engine plane weigh less and thus can fly longer on a specific amount of fuel comparative to a twin engine plane ? Both airplanes above are powered by the same <URL> , so yes the twin will be heavier . But it can also lift more weight ( i.e. more fuel ) , and cruise at a higher speed for the same power setting , or cruise at the same speed for lower power setting . Either the higher speed or lower power , combined with the more fuel , gives the twin a longer range . In fact , double . 2,603 km compared to 1,333 km . If you wanted to compare the twin to a single with a 600 hp engine , then there is no weight advantage . Only the bigger engine is harder to maintain . On a technical note , weight is not a big issue in cruise . The power to overcome the induced drag from the lift ( which counters the weight ) , decreases with speed , i.e. , it takes less power to create lift in cruise , than at slow speeds . ( See graph below for the induced drag . ) Same fuel Twins are designed to fly on one engine , which means half the power potential is enough , which is helped by the bigger span wing . So the same fuel load will give the same or more range for the twin . Unless , you want 600 hp vs 2x300 hp , in that case the single will win because of its smaller form . Some numbers : For the two planes above , here are the gallons-per-hour and cruise speeds : As you can see , the higher fuel consumption is offset nicely by the speed , and note that the twin will reach the cruise altitude in less time as well . Sources : <URL> , <URL> If we <URL> then it wo n't be an apples-to-apples comparison , but the single-turbine plane will be faster , and will have longer range , but that 's mainly due to the different engine types ( combined with different cruise speeds ) . For the Cessna Caravan , the <URL> ( minus the accessories ) weighs as half as a single 300 hp piston engine , which can allow for 200-400 kg more fuel , but the turboprop engines are very , very expensive . So depending on the operation , a fuel saving here might be overdone by the initial cost . <URL> ( <URL> )
What I assume you are talking about is the drivers license medical loop here in the US that allows you to fly LSA aircraft with only holding a Drivers License ( in lieu of a medical certificate ) . You can find the <URL> but there are a few things you should know . First off you need to see what your local state requires ( since drivers licenses are issued by states not a federal body like pilots licenses ) . If your state has color blind restrictions on drivers licenses you may have an issue ( i ) Comply with each restriction and limitation imposed by that person 's U.S. driver 's license and any judicial or administrative order applying to the operation of a motor vehicle ; If you are stepping down from larger planes into LSA planes you can not use the drivers license if you have ever lost a medical cert ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and The catch all clause that may make the colorblind condition an issue is the last requirement in the FAR ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . There are lots of light signals used in aviation that a red/green color blind person would have issues with . According to <URL> color blind LSA pilots are restricted from flying into where color light signals may be used ( these signals include but are not limited to tower light signals and ground based warning lights like those in the DC area ) . If your state issues you a color blind restriction on your drivers license it holds here as well , Of course , any limitations placed on the driver 's license would also apply to flying , and a person must always be physically able to perform the flight safely . Furthermore it seems that according to <URL> you can have the restrictions lifted if you can pass a color blind test ( I assume this applies to both the LSA restrictions as well as the regular PPL restrictions )
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
Holding procedures are defined by each country for their own airspace . With that said , member countries of the International Civil Avation Organization ( ICAO ) generally follow the guidance of Part I , Section 6 , Chapter 1 in <URL> , Aircraft Operations , Volume I , Flight Procedures : Section 1.1.3 - The procedures described in this chapter are related to right turn holding patterns . For left turn holding patterns , the corresponding entry and holding procedures are symmetrical with respect to the inbound holding track . While the document does not explicitly state that right-hand holding patterns are the default , it is implied . Section 1.4.9 - The still air time for flying the outbound entry heading should not exceed : a ) one minute if at or below 4 250 m ( 14 000 ft ) ; or b ) one and one-half minutes if above 4 250 m ( 14 000 ft ) . Where DME is available , the length of the outbound leg may be specified in terms of distance instead of time . Member countries can deviate from these standards , but if they do , they are supposed to notify ICAO and publish these differences in their respective Aeronautical Information Publication .
If the rudder is jammed in the neutral position ( as stated in your question ) , then landing is easy . You will just land using ordinary techniques . The plane may feel sloppy , and passengers sitting at the back will complain about feeling dizzy , but the aircraft is easily controllable and landing would not be any problem . Now things are different when the rudder is jammed to one side , for example in <URL> . The crew faced major controlling issues with a full right rudder , engine failure and very high sink rate . But even then , the pilots managed to land successfully .
The " Approaching Minimums " callout is made by the Pilot Monitoring ( or , in some cases equipment , the GPWS -- Ground Proximity Warning System ) as the aircraft is descending on an instrument approach and has reached an altitude 100 feet above the minimums for that approach -- the Decision Altitude ( DA -- typically used for a Cat I ILS , and set as XXX ' MSL ) or Decision Height ( DH -- typically used for a Cat II or Cat III ILS and set as XXX ' or XX ' on the Radio Altimeter ) or Minimum Descent Altitude ( MDA -- typically used for a nonprecision approach and set as XXX ' MSL ) . The response by the Pilot Flying is usually standardized and indicates he is looking outside in order to acquire the visual references he 'll need to land . The " Minimums " callout is made at the minimum altitude , and this is the point that the Pilot Flying has to make a decision -- continue or go around . His response at this point is again standardized so that the other pilot is entirely clear on the course of action . His response is usually something like " Landing " or " Continue " , or else " Go Around . " Often , the autopilot comes off at this point as well &amp; you hear the horn indicating such on the CVR as well .
The New York Sectional ( the only paper one I have on hand right now ) is 20 3/4 X 59 1/4 inches . You are correct , they are large and printed on nice thick paper .
<URL> means data read on the basic instruments . Not-raw data means enhanced information built from raw data and/or flight management system . <URL> bars are not raw data , but a computation from basic air data , desired airspeed , roll angle limit , etc. . At the next higher level , the <URL> can use the FD data to fly the aircraft . Similarly desired speed can be determined automatically and thrust can be managed by the <URL> . Taking off and climbing with FD , auto-throttle and autopilot <URL> Takeoff with FD and AP , just after liftoff ( A320 simulator ) . Source : <URL> The green bars of the FD shows what should be the attitude of the aircraft , SRS ( <URL> ) guidance law has been used to determine the desired 165 kt speed . The pilot may fly the aircraft manually using these non-raw data . In the present case the pilot has also activated another layer of assistance : Autopilot and auto-throttle . The AP follows the FD indications , and the thrust is managed by the auto-throttle so that the desired speed is achieved safely as soon as possible . The indication in the <URL> means autopilot , flight director and auto-throttle are currently selected / active . T/O with raw data Flying with raw data implies not using the FD or the SRS mode , nor the AP other modes or the auto-throttle . The crew must determine the attitude to be used after the T/O rotation , and during the climb . They also need to manage the thrust required . For example , the roll angle has to be determined manually , depending on all factors discussed above and the desired horizontal track . <URL> Takeoff without FD ( A320 ) . Source : <URL> Benefits Not using computer assistance helps maintaining and developing pilot skills and prevents dependency on automation that can always <URL> . The correct attitude , speed and thrust depend on many limits -- some are displayed in the <URL> band and the <URL> when they have video displays -- that the pilots must have in mind . So it 's usual that pilots perform manual take-offs and landings and raw-data operations . The frequency of such permanent training may be influenced by the <URL> ( standard operating procedures , SOP ) which can either encourage or discourage crews to use the airplane automatic features at certain phases of the flight . On modern aircraft there are some mechanisms ca n't be inactivated as the direct transmission between controls and corresponding actuators have been replaced , partially or totally , by <URL> . The conversion between actual pilot movements and electrical command signals is subject to some level of filtering provided by the fly-by-wire system . Other raw data operations <URL> . Raw data navigation . This post consistently uses Airbus-based explanations , as terminology varies between aircraft manufacturers ( but principles are mostly the same for this topic ) .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
On a low wing monoplane you 'll need a pump all the time . There will be a mechanical pump fitted to the engine for the purpose . On a high-wing monoplane the engine is often gravity feed . However , during critical phases of flight ( specifically take-off and landing ) you would n't want to have that fail so a second auxiliary electric pump is fitted that the pilot switches on beforehand and can switch off once that phase is over . The Pilot 's Operating Manual will give specific recommendations for use on any given type .
Military transports are designed to be operated from unpaved runways - by extension , any of these converted to civilian use can operate from unpaved runways . For example , the <URL> operates a number of <URL> , which can and do operate from unpaved runways regularly . The <URL> specifically states : Multi-leg landing gears equipped with 24 wheels allow to operate the aircraft on unpaved runways ...
Short Answer In straight and level flight , it means do n't push over too fast . Doing so gets you " light in the seat " and things may fly about the cockpit/cabin . In some aircraft , negative " g " can make the oil " flow up " away from the sump and begin to starve your engine of much needed lubrication . ( Example : T-34C , trainer , limited to 10 seconds inverted flight . Straight and Level inverted flight is -1 " g. " ) More Answer You want to avoid flying with negative " g " in a variety of circumstances , depending upon how the aircraft is designed . Example : In a helicopter , negative " g " can have dire consequences . On the teetering , semi rigid rotor heads in the original Huey , for example , unloading the head can lead to mast bumping , which can lead to catastrophic failure of the mast , and then some death . Counter Example : Flying a Pitts Special , or an F-18 , the aircraft is built to withstand some negative " g " due to their needing to fly particular maneuvers . " G " is a natural part of flying , but " how much " varies with design . Whenever you turn the aircraft , you will add a little bit of " g " load since " g " is a measure of acceleration . Vector sums based on angle of bank will tell you how much " g " you can expect in a level turn at constant speed . Example : a 60 degree angle of bank adds an additional " g " compared to level flight , and you feel a bit of a push into your seat .
I got the answer . ' C ' is commercial , ' G ' general aviation , ' T ' taxi , etc. . Update : <URL> , under section " Type of flight " , it lists S if scheduled air service N if nonscheduled air transport operation G if general aviation M if military X if other than any of the defined categories above . But types C and T is n't there .
In cruise , there are no opposite turns that precede every turn . Human senses and the inner ear are very good at playing tricks , in fact pilots ca n't judge turns if they have no visibility ( e.g. , in clouds ) without using their flight instruments . Judging an aircraft 's bank from a passenger seat is almost impossible at night , in clouds , over sheets of ice , over hazy oceans , etc. . On a commercial flight , the water in a cup remains level in the lateral during <URL> , that 's because the load pulling down on the aircraft will still be pulling down perpendicular to the floor . A shallow roll to the right or left could be just the plane correcting its course in a gust or so .
From an aerospace engineering perspective : The <URL> ( $ C_D $ ) of a round antenna is can be estimated by around $ .5 $ depending on shape , while for an streamlined shape it 's around $ 0.045 $ . ( <URL> ) Drag is defined as : $ $ D = \ frac12C_D { \ rho } V ^ 2A $ $ Thus , say you have a 0.01 m wide antenna 0.25 m long , for an aircraft moving at 50 m/s . At sea level conditions , air density $ \ rho = 1.225 \ mathrm { kg/m ^ 3 } $ . Say that $ C_D = 0.5 $ . If my calculations add up , it 's around $ 1.9 \ mathrm { N } $ . Say you have the same antenna , for the same aircraft aircraft moving at 50 m/s . Air density is $ 1.225 \ mathrm { kg/m ^ 3 } $ , but this time the antenna is streamlined with $ C_D = 0.04 $ . This results in a force of only $ 0.15 \ mathrm { N } $ . ( Updates : Originally the formula included $ \ frac12 $ twice which was wrong , and that the force was given in kg , rather than newtons ; my apologies . )
It 's for the microphone ( the standard sized one is for the head phones ) . They are different size so the pilot knows to try the other hole if it does n't fit . From <URL> Commercial and general aviation ( GA ) civil airplane headset plugs are similar , but not identical . A standard 1⁄4 in monaural plug , type PJ-055 , is used for headphones , paired with special tip-ring-sleeve , 0.206 inch diameter plug , type PJ-068 , for the microphone . On the microphone plug the Ring is used for the microphone ' hot ' and the sleeve is common or microphone ' Lo ' .
Versalog already told the core of the thing . Most prop aircraft which are approved for flights into known icing conditions have such boots to remove the ice from the wings leading edge . Those boots are either inflated manually whenever you need them ( by the press of a button of course ) , at regular intervals or automatically whenever ice is detected . Check this picture , the black thing is the boot on a Dash 8 's wing : <URL> <URL>
Can you ? Absolutely , and air traffic control will treat you ( almost ) like any other airplane . You are supposedly handled on a first-come-first-serve basis ( reality is slightly different with different aircraft speeds , etc. ) . Do the airlines like it if you slow them down ? No , but it 's part of the system and the way that it works . Very often , there are multiple runways at bigger airports , and sometimes there are even shorter runways that are dedicated for airplanes that do n't need to land on the same one as the " big boys " . Even if not , they will work you in . Now , that being said , very often there is a better option . As you said , there are usually high fees at the big airports , so landing at a smaller satellite airport can often save you money and save you time because you wo n't have to taxi as far or sit and wait in line to get out . An extra 15 minutes by car can be better than an extra 30 minutes while taxiing . As far as being prepared , it is n't really much different than smaller airports other than the fact that ATC is much busier . They do n't have the time/tolerance to keep repeating instructions to you , and expect you to be " on your game " . When they rattle off taxi instructions like " Cessna N1234 , taxi to the ramp via Alpha , Tango , Echo , and Xray . Hold short of runway 23 . " they expect a quick readback and for you to follow instructions exactly because they need to move on to the next guy . It will also help everyone out if you do n't fly your final approach the way that most people are taught for an entire 10 mile final : very close to your actual landing speed . In fact , you are usually landing on a runway that is 4X + the distance that you need and you can slow down fairly quickly ( especially compared to a jet ) , so if you can fly an extra 20 ( or 80 ) knots as long as possible , it will be greatly appreciated and keep traffic moving . Make sure that you leave yourself enough time to slow down at the end and above all else , be safe .
For the aircrew , at least in the aircraft that I 've flown , there is no defined checklist . You scan and then deal with anything that occurs ( inoperative equipment , pressurization issues , whatever you get ) with whatever checklists apply : if the lightning knocked out a hydraulic pump , run the checklist for the inop pump , etc. . Once you 're on the ground , maintenance has a HUGE checklist to work through , essentially checking every surface of the aircraft for damage and verifying that every piece of equipment still works . The more that the crew can tell them ( i.e. radios &amp; instruments unaffected , no equipment stopped working , pressurization normal , etc ) , the more of it they can sign off from the crew observation . But even then , it 's still pretty lengthy .
end question
start question
Why does the landing gear control have 3 positions ( up/down/off ) on Boeing 737-800 ?
When or is selected , the hydraulics pressurise in the appropriate direction . Once the gear is up and the mechanical locks are keeping the gear locked in place , can be selected to disconnect the hydraulic power .
Gravity/freefall backup ( or more precisely some backup ) is mandatory , but in large aircraft running pulley from cockpit to the wheel wells to release the uplock ( the thing that keeps the gear retracted ) mechanically would be too complicated or the force required to operate it too large , so the uplock still needs to be released electrically . Unfortunately the circuit breaker that protects the circuit responsible for releasing the uplock was " popped " ( open ) , so the uplocks did n't release and the gear did n't fall down . The crew was trying to troubleshoot the issue for 80 minutes and consulted maintenance over radio , but because the checklists for either central hydraulic system ( which does the normal gear extension ) failure or alternate gear extension did not mention the circuit breaker ( C829 ) neither crew nor maintenance thought of checking it . It is not possible to find why and when the breaker popped . They tested the alternate extension afterwards and it worked , but the breaker covers several other circuits and there could have been transient problem somewhere or it could have been maintenance error or some other reasons . You can read excerpt from the report on <URL> .
On older ( WWII-era ) large planes , the crew had access to a manual crank to lower the gear if the automatic extension/retraction system ( usually a linear actuator powered electrically ) failed . I do n't know of any that had a gravity-based manual system ; I 'm sure a few bomber crews would have appreciated something like that after having to crank the handle to get a disabled main gear locked . Here are the manual crank ports for the B-17 , on the forward bomb bay bulkhead with red arrows indicating the direction to crank : The B-17 had a retractable tail gear as well , so there was a third manual crank in the tunnel to the rear gunner 's position ( but if there were multiple gear failures , the main gear would be the priority ) . On more modern airliners with hydraulic extension/retraction , manually cranking the gear into place is n't as much of an option ( especially since any access to a crank linkage would be in either the passenger cabin or the cargo hold ) . For these aircraft , the gear are designed with a " manual extension " or " gravity release " . This basically disconnects the gear strut from its uplocks and the hydraulic cylinder , allowing gravity to pull the gear down and then momentum ( or a spring mechanism ) will engage the downlocks . Here is a diagram of the 737 's manual gear panel on the right-hand wall of the flight deck : The 747 has a manual nose gear extension system in the avionics compartment below the first-class cabin . The 747 's main gear are much more complex , but it is still possible to let gravity pull them into place , by using a set of " alternate gear extension " switches on the overhead panel to release each gear from the hydraulics and uplocks : It does n't always work ; a Virgin Atlantic 747 pilot was forced to make an emergency landing with the outboard right main gear stuck in a half-extended position :
The simple EGT gauges do not have numerical scales because you never lean to a temperature . You find the peak temperature , set the movable red needle to that temperature , and then lean to x degrees lean ( or enrichen to x degrees ) of peak temperature . Set the peak temperature at full throttle , full rich at a sea level airport . This system eliminates the concerns of calibration : Is the gauge calibrated , did the mechanic install the probe in exactly the right spot , etc. etc. .
It depends on the aircraft ( and conditions ) . In some aircraft like the MD-11 , the deployment of ground spoilers causes a nose up pitching moment - in such a case , the spoilers should be deployed after nose landing gear touches down . An example is the <URL> where the aircraft , a MD-11 exhibited a pitch up tendency during landing and the pilot had to initiate a go around . The <URL> : The MD-11 Flight Crew Operating Manual , Volume II , Landing Roll Procedure , contains the following note : Ground spoiler deployment causes nose up pitching moment . This effect is most noticeable at aft centers of gravity . It is important to check the nose up pitching tendency with forward pressure on the control column and smoothly lower the nose wheel to the runway . In some cases the deployment of thrust reversers could also have similar effect . In such cases , the thrust reversers and spoilers should be deployed after the nose wheel touches the ground , while in other cases , it is done after the main landing gear touches down and before the nose gear touches down . From <URL> : ... some airplanes tend to pitch noseup when reverse is selected on landing and this effect , particularly when combined with the noseup pitch effect from the spoilers , can cause the airplane to leave the ground again momentarily . On these types , the airplane must be firmly on the ground with the nosewheel down , before reverse is selected . Other types of airplanes have no change in pitch , and reverse idle may be selected after the main gear is down and before the nosewheel is down . There are other issues as well - deployment of thrust reversers before the nose wheel touches the ground means the pilot may not have sufficient authority for steering the aircraft in case one of them does n't deploy . To prevent this some aircraft restrict the use of full reverse thrust till the nose landing gear is on ground ( though idle reverse is permitted once the main gear touches down ) . Also , for aircraft having engines in rear , the deployment of clamshell type thrust reversers can have clearance and debris ingestion issues which can limit their deployment . Also , the effect of spoiler deployment on the aircraft aerodynamics has also to be considered . For example , <URL> : The MD-80 and MD-90 in-flight spoiler lockout mechanism prevents the undesirable flight control configuration of deployed spoilers in either the speed brake or ground spoiler mode when flaps are extended . There are also other aircraft ( like Tu-154 ) where the thrust reversers were deployed before touchdown . So , all in all , it is better to consult the particular aircraft manual to decide when the spoilers/thrust reversers are to be engaged .
It looks like the first plane that actually flew and had at least a partially-retractable undercarriage was a German racing plane , the Wiencziers Renneindecker , from 1911 : You can see the undercarriage designed to collapse to the rear , using a hand crank in the cockpit to lift the gear . Not a great idea by today 's standards as the gear would be prone to collapse on landing , but it apparently worked well enough at the time . There are plans for retractable landing gear dating back to the late 1800s , before powered flight in such a craft was ever achieved , but they did n't become common on planes until just after WWI . Even then , for relatively slow planes ( < 200mph ) it remains common even today to keep the gear fixed and wrap the wheels in a cowl , as for only a ~ 4 % increase in drag over a full retractable setup , you save a lot of weight and mechanical complexity . Notable fixed-gear craft in military service through WWII include the German Ju87 Stuka and the Nakajima Ki-27 " Nate " . Though most of the American wartime air fleet had retractable gear as of just after the start of WWII , practically every WWII air corps draftee trained on either a BT-11 or one of the biplane trainers like the PT-13 / 17/18 . Today , plenty of civvie small craft have fixed gear , such as the Cessna 150 , 172 and variants , Piper Cubs and Cherokees , some Beechcraft Musketeers , etc etc. .
In the early days of aviation it was simply easier to have the gear fixed . The landing gear adds drag , but so does <URL> and <URL> . Airplanes generally did not fly very fast or far , so the drag from the landing gear ( and that other stuff ) was not a big issue . The first design with retractable gear <URL> . Since then , retractable gear has been a design decision each airplane must make . Retracting the gear into the airplane allows for a cleaner form , which reduces drag . However , this is at the expense of added weight . The retract system , which is usually hydraulic , must be added , and the plane must be designed to make room for the gear somewhere at least mostly inside the aircraft . The plane must also be designed to handle situations where some or all of the gear does not extend properly . For planes that need to be fast and/or efficient , retractable gear is worth the reduction in drag . The additional drag has to be supported by the structure as well . Aircraft with retractable gear will have a maximum speed at which the gear can be extended . Even gear with proper fairings would add significant drag at the speeds airliners fly at . This would be much more critical at supersonic speeds . In these cases the weight of reinforcing the gear could be even higher than the weight of the retracting system . Particularly smaller general aviation planes tend to not have retractable gear . The retract system adds extra weight and complexity ( and therefore cost ) , which will be fairly significant in a small plane . Fixed gear is simple and can be designed to minimize drag as much as possible . These planes do not typically need to fly fast or have large range , so the added drag is less of an issue . Other small planes do have retractable gear , which will allow for greater speed and range . The PA-32 type shown in <URL> was later produced in a <URL> as well .
In flight mode the stick commands a load-factor . Which means it will be impossible to flare the aircraft , because as you pull on the stick , you 'll be commanding a positive g-load . Because of this the Airbus has a flare mode which activates at 50 ' RA . At 50 ' the pitch angle is stored ( memorized ) . At 30 ' the aircraft commands a 2 ° nose down ( it takes 8 seconds ) . The pilot would gently counter this by pulling back , resulting in a nice flare and no increase in the auto-thrust . If the pilot did not float for way too long ( they should not ) , the plane will touchdown before the 8 seconds pass , further eliminating the need to push forward on the stick to keep the nose gear planted . The logic reverts to ground mode when two conditions are met : on ground for 5 seconds and pitch angle < 2.5 ° . If the 5 seconds pass and the nose is still +2.5 ° , the logic will remain in the flare mode and the THS will not reset to 0 ° . The pitch will revert to the one set at 50 ' . As the plane continues to slow down this may result in a nasty nose landing gear slam or a tail strike depending on the stored pitch angle and any gusts ( kind of like <URL> ) . <URL> I do recommend you check your company 's Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) and to not use the internet for flight . If your instructor does not like too many ' why ' questions during class , you can try and ask them after class . When you get your answers , try to validate them from the FCOM . Some <URL> have custom logic set by Airbus . So the installed logic may differ .
The aircraft flares just before touching down . It descends with a constant velocity , and just before touching down pulls the nose up to reduce the descent . This results in a higher angle of attack , more lift , and a vertical deceleration of the airplane . A passenger perceives this vertical deceleration as a force . Direction of the force is straight down and the aircraft is nose up , you 're leaning back , so there is a component of ( gravity + vertical deceleration ) that pushes you into the back of your seat . This same effect is used in flight simulators with a motion base . Upon accelerating , the simulator pushes forward like the aircraft does , but also slowly rotates backwards so that the pilot feels sustained seat back pressure . He can not see the leaning back angle inside the simulator because the horizon of the projected outside visual image does not move . As happens in the aircraft : look forward in the aircraft and your view of the inside of the aircraft is always the same , irrespective of aircraft angle . <URL> So for your eyes there is no apparent tilt , the inner ear senses rearwards force , and there is increased pressure from the seat backrest . The brain translates this into perceived forward acceleration .
It does n't appear to be a patent thing . The main work on the chevron ( shaped nozzles ) was done by NASA . Every design decision in an aircraft is a compromise and this was no different . The addition of chevrons for noise suppression leads to a ( small ) increase in specific fuel consumption and Airbus considered it not worth it . Flightglobal quotes <URL> as saying : We did n't get a noise advantage from chevrons , and there is a specific fuel consumption penalty , so we 've not adopted them . Airbus seems to have gone in the insulation and high bypass route for reducing noise . From the same article : Goodrich is to build the engine nacelle for the A350 's GEnx engine , with Airbus supplying the composite inlet , which incorporates a " zero splice " acoustic inner barrel to provide a new level of fan-noise reduction . As an example of the acoustic treatment of nacelle in A320 family , <URL> : The thrust reverser structure was acoustically treated along approximately half of its internal surface . It was clear that increasing this acoustic area would increase the acoustic sound absorption and hence decrease the overall measurable exhaust noise . The inner fixed structure was redesigned with increased acoustic area . In addition , the support struts and several fairings were also modified to include acoustic treatment . The result was an increase in the acoustic area of the thrust reverser by approximately 2 square meters ( 21.5 sq ft ) . Airbus does use chevrons in some of the aircraft , like A321 along with nacelle acoustic improvements ; however , the chevrons are available only in the inner ( core ) nozzle . The package is available as standard for CFM powered A321 aircraft and options are available for A320 . The image below shows a A321 with chevron nozzles . <URL> Image from <URL> According to <URL> : The noise reduction package is currently offered as the basic standard on all CFM powered Airbus A321 aircraft . It is also optional on all the other A320 Family aircraft .
To answer the last part of your question , as ratchet freak said , the TCAS does n't warn the pilot when he should deploy landing gear . However , <URL> does . <URL> is " Unsafe Terrain Clearance With Landing Gear Not Down " . If the plane is less than 700ft ( based on the radio altimeter 's measure ) high and under mach .35 , there is an aural alert in the cockpit saying " Too low - gear " . The message is repeated until the situation is corrected . So the warning is based on the height and speed of the aircraft . Not on its distance to the airport .
No , Tower has final authority over which runway to use . Tower controllers have direct line-of-sight with the runway . Tower has better knowledge about equipment outages , obstacles and other special situations happening on or around the runway . Tower is the one who is granting landing clearances . They have authority to reject planes that are coming in from the wrong direction . The job of Terminal Control is to " pass " the airplane to Tower . From that point onwards , the responsibility of Terminal Control has ended ; Tower will direct the plane until it leaves Tower 's responsibility ( miss approached / on the ground ) . For example , a pilot can approach an airport with an published instrument approach , then circle to land on a different runway . The runway is located at the airport . Therefore the responsibility lies with whoever has control at the airport , not the surrounding airspace . The airspace directly at the airport belongs to Tower , not Terminal Control . Your concern of conflicting traffic is , to a certain extend , invalid , because they have been addressed by the airport designers . See , for example , the approach for VMMC : <URL> The approach begins from the South or South West . An approach from the East would have conflicted 07 approaches for VHHH . Missed approach requires a climb to at least 5,500 feet . That keeps the plane separated vertically from departing or arriving traffic at the West of VHHH . For reference , 07R approach for VHHH : <URL> You can find similar cases for airports like KLAX , KJFK and EGLL .
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
No , it 's not a missile , it 's a towed target : <URL> are used for <URL> and gunnery <URL> . The can serve as a radar target or visual target during military exercises . The ' missile ' is on a long cord and can be reeled from the aircraft . The pod that you see here is a <URL> with the capability to drag the target up to 30,000 ft behind the aircraft . If you are interested in flying these kind of missions , it seems L3 is looking for a new <URL> for their Learjets .
Judging from <URL> , it does not have an automatic prop sync . When throttles are advanced you can hear the harmonic beat of the twin propeller blades , and during the climb the instructor seems to manually set the levers to reduce the harmonic set the correct manifold pressure . He may or may not have an indicator to help him , but judging from the sound effects there is no automatic synching taking place . And here is an old <URL> , on how to fly the aircraft . Nothing on synchronising the propellers . That beautiful engine sound is not produced by a turbine by the way .
The linear theory makes certain assumptions in its formulation : The flow is irrotational and isentropic . The perturbations are small ; i.e. the bodies are small at small angles of attack . However , hypersonic flow <URL> : For a body in hypersonic flow ( blunt body with detached bow shock ) , an entropy gradient is developed that varies along the distance of the body . It results in an entropy layer that persists all along the body . In a hypersonic flow , the viscous boundary layer interacts with the shock and entropy layer and the kinetic energy of the flow is dissipated by the effect of friction within the boundary layer . Due to these viscous effects , the flow is no longer irrotational . Note that the linear theory is not applicable if the flow is considered hypersonic . M > 5 is usually taken as hypersonic . Linear theory is not applicable in transonic regime either .
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
There are two main geometrical characteristics that affect the airflow in the situation mentioned . From one side you have a cylinder with wheels at the end ; on the other side during the transition you have an open cavity . Let 's talk about the first one . You actually have a cylinder flying perpendicular to the air speed . This is kind of canonical problem in fluid dynamics , there is a lot of literature about this problem , but to explain the effect I would like to take a simple example that I took from the website , the infinite 2D cylinder . For that , I include this picture of flow over a cylinder : Note for fluid dynamics experts : This is not relevant if Reynolds Number ( Re ) is around 10,000 , but for understanding the concept is good enough . So , imagine that we are cutting landing gear perpendicular to its length and we visualize the flow . What do we see ? Two main things ... Looking at the flow lines , they are almost not affected at 3-4 diameters of distance from the cylinder perpendicular to the flow direction there is a very local influence of the existence of the landing gear . However we see that down the flow there is a big influence with the creation of chaotic structures . That is creating a big increase in drag downstream of the landing gear and any surface behind . Basically ... low influence on the red direction and significant influence on blue . Answering your question , influences the wing in a local area . The influence anyhow is negative on the lift , as the flow is accelerated locally , reducing the static pressure below the wing , having a lift reduction , but is a local effect . This also have an influence on the wing lift distribution and a small effect on drag ... lower than the one directly produced by the landing gear itself . Now ... the cavities , they have a bigger influence , firstly because they have bigger extension parallel to the airplane surface ( the landing gear goes perpendicular to the airplane the cavity goes along the surface ) . Secondly , their flow behaviour is different , goes in and outside the cavity . I found this <URL> very good on this , but basically the flow behaviour is like these image : I found several flows similar to the second one , but depends on the airplane . You can see that flow will enter and go outside and will have a big influence . Finally , the biggest influence is found when the airplane is deploying or retracting the landing gears when you have changing conditions , difficult to predict and affecting the airplane dynamics . Usually you can notice it when landing or taking off , when landing gear is deployed you fell significant vibration on the airplane . Concerning your questions : How does the landing gear affect aerodynamics when deployed and when deploying ? There is a significant drag increase , slightly the lift , but also creates some unsteady behaviour affecting overall airplane mechanics creating vibrations ( anyhow , nothing not already taken into account ) . Is it different for aircraft whose landing gear do not retract into the wing ? I understand that you refer to airplane with non retractable landing gear . The effect is similar but usually the configuration tries to avoid having the landing gear close to the wing , as finally they do n't need to retract them back . Does this modify performance critical when taking off or landing such as stall speed , optimal climb speed ? Well , stall speed is usually defined by wing lift curve , and not so much affected by the landing gear . Usually the limitation is on the upper side due to separation . Climb speed is basically engine thrust minus drag , the drag increases the climb speed is lower . That 's why airplanes retract the landing gear as soon as possible .
The reason is twofold : The materials used and the high aspect ratio . The 747-8 primarily uses advance aluminum alloys , while the 787 uses carbon composites . The carbon composites flex more compared to the aluminum alloys . This can be achieved because the carbon fibers are anisotropic and their properties can be tailored in each direction . The yield strain of the aluminum alloys used in aerospace is ~ 1 % , while that of the <URL> is about 50 % higher , ~ 1.5 % . These material characteristics mean that the carbon spar can flex more compared to the aluminum one . This effect is magnified by the high aspect ratio of the Boeing 787 . The aspect ratio of the 787 is about <URL> while that of the 747-8 is about <URL> . This means that the wings are more slender and flex more for the same load . The 787 wings are able to take this flexing in part because of the excellent fatigue properties of the Carbon composites used . See <URL> for a very good discussion on the causes and effects of wing flexing in 787 .
end question
start question
Who closes an airline 's IFR flight plan and when ?
When landing at a controlled aerodrome , air traffic control will automatically close the flightplan once the flight has safely arrived . The pilot does not have to do anything in this case . The majority of commercial flights take place at controlled aerodromes , which is probably what makes you think that pilots never close their flightplans . If landing at an uncontrolled field ( that is , one without a control tower ) , however , the pilot will either close the flightplan by contacting a nearby ATC station on the radio before landing , or via telephone after landing .
The ARTCC are centers with authority on the US territory only . However there are equivalent control areas in the international airspace ( e.g. airspace used when flying over the seas ) . International rules are proposed by <URL> . The foundations of the laws used in civil aviation have been agreed in 1944 <URL> , in particular <URL> . From <URL> on ICAO airspace classification : ICAO has divided the airspace in the world into Flight Information Regions , or FIRS . These regions identify which country controls the airspace and determines which procedures are to be used . Normally , one major ATC facility is identified with each FIR . These facilities are called Area Control Centers ( ACC ) . They are equivalent to ARTCC 's in the U.S. ACC are managed by countries who received a delegation from ICAO . ACC usually provide clearances for flights over water areas and are as such Oceanic Control Areas or OCAs . For North Atlantic : <URL> North Atlantic OCAs ( <URL> ) There are 6 OCAs managed by different ICAO member States : UK ( Shanwick ) , Iceland ( Reykjavik ) , Canada ( Gander ) , Norway ( BODO ) , USA ( NY ) and Portugal ( Santa Maria ) . A common route for the flight you mention will cross <URL> and <URL> FIR/OCA . This region is very crowded ( due to the <URL> reduced volume and the transoceanic flights in general ) . Example : <URL> ( source <URL> ) FIRs and their boundaries worldwide can be displayed with this <URL> : <URL> ( source : <URL> ) See full <URL> on IVAO ( simulation ) . This will be for the other direction , because the NAT system is based on jet streams blowing from west to east .
Wake turbulence can affect aircraft in the most critical phases of flight such as landing approach . For example , consider this <URL> On June 12 , 2006 , while on visual approach at Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City , Mo. , the pilot of a Piper Saratoga crossed below the flight path of a Boeing 737 that was landing ahead on a parallel runway . The Saratoga encountered wake turbulence so violent that it tore apart the aircraft in flight . The pilot and his passenger were killed . The effects are most severe for small aircraft entering the wake of a large aircraft but large aircraft can be affected too . Skybrary <URL> of incidents involving wake turbulance .
You can calculate ToD beforehand or let the FMS do the work . In reality though , you generally do n't get to wait until your optimal ToD to start descending , especially flying into busy airports . If the airport has arrival routes , you 'll be flying one and there will be crossing restrictions that are either part of the arrival clearance or expected clearances from ATC . When you are flying the route you 'll set the crossing restriction altitudes in the FMS and the FMS will generate ToD points to make those restrictions . You can also use the 1000 ' / 3NM rule to calculate your own ToD for each crossing restriction . Going into smaller fields I often set my own target altitude of 10,000 ' 30 NM from the airport and used that to generate a ToD for descending from cruise . If you are landing in the direction of your arrival into a small airport and ATC is generous with pilot discretion descents you can sometimes manage an idle descent from cruise all the way to the FAF , but not often . Finally , while the ToD might not explicitly be on the flight plan , it is accounted for in the planning . The dispatcher has to account for expected fuel burn for the flight so we have the right amount of fuel , and the performance calculations they do takes the descent from cruise into the terminal environment into account .
The Part 121 regulation that governs low visibility takeoffs are specified in 14 CFR 121.651 . It references company OpSpecs and 91.175 and Part 97 : " Standard " takeoff minimums are specified in 14 CFR 91.175 and would be the highest of : Non-standard takeoff minimums specified on the airport charts ( FAR 97 ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . For helicopters -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . OpSpec C056 is issued to all 121 carriers , and basically just spells out the " standard " takeoff minimums that I listed above , and specifies that RVR must be used if it is available on the runway . OpSpec C078 is normally issued and allows taking off with lower than standard visibility as long as the airport does n't already have published higher than standard takeoff minimums . This is a fairly involved OpSpec with several optional paragraphs , and operators may be approved for takeoff operations down to and including 300 RVR . For those not familiar with the term , RVR ( Runway Visual Range ) is the distance that a pilot can see down the runway , measured by automatic equipment , and is measured in feet in the US . It offers approvals for the following visibilities : 1/4 SM / RVR 1600 : Touchdown zone RVR ( or mid RVR if touchdown zone is inop ) is controlling : Requires " runway markings or runway lighting provide pilots with adequate visual reference to continuously identify the takeoff surface and maintain directional control throughout the takeoff run . " ( Basically as long as the pilot feels comfortable , but specifically mentions HIRL , CL , and RCLM as okay . ) RVR 1000 ( optional ) Touchdown zone RVR and rollout RVR ( A mid-RVR report may be substituted for either if they are inop , but still must have two systems ) are both controlling Requires Runway Centerline Lights ( CL ) RVR 500 ( optional ) Touchdown zone RVR , mid RVR , and rollout RVR are all controlling ( one may be inop ) Requires Operative runway centerline lights ( CL ) Requires Runway centerline markings ( RCLM ) RVR 300 ( optional ) Requires a takeoff guidance system Requires operative high intensity runway lights ( HIRL ) Requires operative runway centerline lights ( CL ) Requires serviceable runway centerline markings ( RCLM ) Front course guidance from the localizer ( if applicable to the system used ) Crosswind less than 10 knots Touchdown zone RVR , mid RVR , and rollout RVR are all controlling ( one may be inop ) Requires special training requirements for both the PIC and SIC Taxiways with operative taxiway centerline lighting must be available Regulations / <URL> <URL> ( a ) Notwithstanding any clearance from ATC , no pilot may begin a takeoff in an airplane under IFR when the weather conditions reported by the U.S. National Weather Service , a source approved by that Service , or a source approved by the Administrator , are less than those specified in -- ( 1 ) The certificate holder 's operations specifications ; or ( 2 ) Parts 91 and 97 of this chapter , if the certificate holder 's operations specifications do not specify takeoff minimums for the airport . <URL> ... ( f ) Civil airport takeoff minimums . This paragraph applies to persons operating an aircraft under part 121 , 125 , 129 , or 135 of this chapter . ( 1 ) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA , no pilot may takeoff from a civil airport under IFR unless the weather conditions at time of takeoff are at or above the weather minimums for IFR takeoff prescribed for that airport under part 97 of this chapter . ( 2 ) If takeoff weather minimums are not prescribed under part 97 of this chapter for a particular airport , the following weather minimums apply to takeoffs under IFR : ( i ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . ( ii ) For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . ( iii ) For helicopters -- 1⁄2 statute mile visibility . C056 , IFR Takeoff Minimums , Part 121 Airplane Operations - All Airports . a. Standard takeoff minimums are defined as 1 statute mile visibility or RVR 5000 for airplanes having 2 engines or less and 1/2 statute mile visibility or RVR 2400 for airplanes having more than 2 engines . b. RVR reports , when available for a particular runway , shall be used for all takeoff operations on that runway . All takeoff operations , based on RVR , must use RVR reports from the locations along the runway specified in this paragraph . c . When a takeoff minimum is not published , the certificate holder may use the applicable standard takeoff minimum and any lower than standard takeoff minimums authorized by these operations specifications . When standard takeoff minimums or greater are used , the Touchdown Zone RVR report , if available , is controlling . d . When a published takeoff minimum is greater than the applicabl
Indeed helicopters can be put on holding during IFR . has helicopter specifics in : 1.3.2.2.2 Helicopter timing . The outbound timing should be : a ) one minute up to and including 1 830 m ( 6 000 ft ) ; and b ) Category A fixed-wing aeroplane criteria above 1 830 m ( 6 000 ft ) . Also specifies that for Helicopters up to 1 830 m ( 6 000 ft ) inclusive airspeed is 185 km/h ( 100 kt ) under normal ( non turbulent ) conditions . From the above , we can conclude that timing and airspeed equals flying the pattern and not hover the point .
<URL> says ( my emphasis ) : ( g ) Logging instrument time . ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . Based on that , the answers to your questions are : You 're in IMC ( i.e. you 're operating below the visual minimums in <URL> ) but as you said , that does n't mean you 're flying " solely by reference to instruments " If the conditions are IMC , yes ( 61.51 does n't require an instructor to operate the aircraft using only instruments ) Whether you 're wearing foggles or not , you can log instrument time only when you 're operating solely on instruments . Practically speaking , using foggles guarantees that you 're doing that and can therefore log the time . Without them , some or all of the time might be loggable , i.e. only the part that you really spend flying only on instruments . <URL> . According to <URL> : When weather conditions permit , regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules , vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft . It 's very common to fly cross country under IFR without logging any instrument time , or logging very little , simply because you 're never solely on instruments .
As long as you remain VFR then the equipment requirements for the airplane and the flight are VFR . § 61.57 says " Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device ... " . It does n't say anything about having an IFR certified airplane or having a current pitot/static and altimeter check . If you are maintaining SEL IFR currency , then all you need is a SEL airplane . MEL IFR , then a multi-engine plane , etc. . And if you are missing some of the 6-pack instruments , all the better for practicing partial panel .
Stall was an unfortunate choice of words for an engine that quits suddenly since the aerodynamic stall means something different1 . To a non-pilot , a stall can best be described as the situation where there is not enough air flowing over the wings to create the amount of lift needed to hold up the airplane . The main reason that student pilots practice stalls is to learn the telltale signs that occur just before it happens and to make the recovery procedure automatic . If pilots can recognize an impending stall , they can take corrective action to either avoid the stall altogether or to recover as quickly as possible . Outside of training , inadvertent stalls typically only occur shortly before landing and after takeoff , when the pilot gets distracted while already at a slow speed . In both of these situations the airplane is very close to the ground , immediately requiring the correct action from the pilot in order to avoid a crash . This needs to be instinctive and corrected using <URL> so that it is accomplished as rapidly as possible . The next logical question is usually : How does a pilot fix an airplane that has stalled ? Fortunately , airplanes are designed so that even during a stall the tail is still effective2 and the pilot is able to use it to force the nose down . This makes the airplane go faster , since it is pointed down towards the ground , and gets more air moving over the wing which allows it to create enough lift for the airplane to start flying again . During practice it is usually pretty uneventful , but when it happens at a low altitude there may not be enough time to regain flying speed before the airplane crashes . For more information , AOPA has a great Safety Publication targeting flight instructors called <URL> which is available on their website . 1 However , the sail on a sailboat can also " stall " when there is n't enough wind and since they have been around since 3,000 BC I guess that technically this usage of the word applies to both situations . 2 There are some stalls in particular airplane designs known as deep stalls that can be unrecoverable . I do n't think that this is important when describing it to a layperson though .
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
<URL> is how the helicopter flies in most situations . It flies similar to an airplane in this situation , with pitching up and down to increase and decrease airspeed . This is controlled by use of forward and aft cyclic . Straight flight is where the tail rotor is set so that it opposes the turning tendency of the main rotor . This essentially prevents the helicopter from yawing while in flight . This is controlled by using the anti-torque pedals . Level flight is simply when the helicopter is flying at a constant altitude . This does not mean , however that its nose is pointed ahead , or that it is flying forward , merely that it is not gaining or losing altitude . I 'm not sure exactly what cruise flight is . When a helicopter is " cruising " , it most likely is maintaining altitude and flying straight ahead , but I do n't think there is a separate term for it .
Yes . Your interpretation is the correct one . Several FAA legal interpretations cover the " calendar months " phrasing ; the best I could find was <URL> : Based on the facts that you have presented , a biennial flight review accomplished on April 2 , 2002 , would not lapse until May 1 , 2004 . Basically , your flight review is legal until the end of the month ( ie , June , or August ) it was completed in two years before . The same calendar logic applies to maintenance like the annual inspection .
In theory it 's possible to contact the local FSDO and ask for a checkride with an FAA inspector , and it 's free ( see <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . But personally I 've never heard of anyone doing it and I ca n't even find anything on the FAA 's website about it . The <URL> show that in 2016 there were 34,156 initial checkrides with DPEs but only 465 with FAA inspectors ( two thirds of those were for ATP ) , so it 's very unusual . That file also shows pass rates by DPE vs. inspector , by the way , and despite some online horror stories it looks like the pass rates were broadly similar . FWIW , it 's fairly common for candidates to travel/fly several hours to a DPE ( <URL> , either because there is n't one available locally or because they want to use the ' right ' one . I do n't know what your friend considers " local " and how far away she 's already looked , but she may want to just look further away . Of course flying somewhere adds some costs but if she 's doing IR/CPL then it 's probably a relatively minor cost compared to what 's she already spent on training and it 's another excuse to fly ( if she needs one ! ) .
According to the tooltips on the Lockheed Martin site , the flight rules are : MVFR - Military VFR ; restricted to military flights MIFR - Military IFR ; restricted to military flights YFR - Initially operated under IFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules ZFR - Initially operated under VFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules There 's very little information on MVFR and MIFR flight plans that I could find , but the FAA 's FSS procedures do include <URL> that are required when receiving a military flight plan ( section 6-4-7 ) . YFR and ZFR are ICAO rules ; the FAA calls combined VFR/IFR flight plans composite flight plans ( see <URL> in the AIM ) and on a US domestic composite flight plan both VFR and IFR should be checked . Interestingly , the Lockheed Martin site does n't allow that .
Disclaimer : this answer applies to airlines ( operating under 14 CFR 121 ) but does not encompass all of commercial aviation . The dispatcher that is working your flight plans the routing and determines the minimum fuel required from takeoff to destination to furthest alternate with additional fuel as required by regulation you operate under . On top of this , contingency fuel is added which can account for enroute diversions , cruising at a different altitude , un-forecast winds , holding , etc. . The total of this fuel is the " release fuel " and you can not takeoff below this number . On top of this , extra fuel will be added for taxi time . Ultimately , it is the captain 's responsibility to decide how much fuel is needed . For slight increases , airline policy may allow captain 's discretion to add fuel . For larger increases in the fuel order you generally need to call the dispatcher and amend the release -- after convincing the dispatcher you need the fuel . If you decide you need less fuel ( e.g. less contingency fuel ) you always need to amend the release so you can legally take off .
To answer your first question , ADS-B stands for Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast . Automatic in the sense that it operates without external stimulus ( unlike radar ) Dependent in the sense that the surveillance information is derived from on board systems Surveillance in the sense that it 's primary intended to provide surveillance information to other parties Broadcast because it transmits to all listeners without knowing who those listeners are , there is no two-way communication . The capability of an aircraft to transmit ADS-B signals is called ADS-B OUT , the capability of an aircraft to receive ADS-B signals is called ADS-B IN . ADS-B data contains information about the identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . There are three technologies defined for ADS-B 1090ES is operating on 1090 MHz , the same frequency used for Secondary Surveillance Radar ( SSR ) and Airborne Collision Avoidance Systems ( ACAS/TCAS ) . Messages are transmitted by the same transponder that also replies to radar interrogations . This will be a Mode-S capable transponder because the data is formatted in a similar way . Since this frequency is the worldwide used standard for aviation , international aviation will use this ADS-B standard . UAT ( Universal Access Transceiver ) works on 978 MHz . A special transceiver is required to use this form of ADS-B . The transceiver is able to send and receive data , it will also receive ADS-B transmissions from other aircraft . UAT is only allowed within the USA and China . The frequency 978 MHz is reserved for other purposes ( DME/TACAN ) in other countries . To encourage people to equip with ADS-B voluntarily , the FAA provides additional services on UAT . These are Traffic Information Service - Broadcast ( TIS-B ) which transmits position of aircraft detected by FAA 's SSR 's and Flight Information Service - Broadcast ( FIS-B ) which provides the receiver with weather information and operational data such a airspace restrictions and NOTAMS . VHF Datalink Mode 4 ( VLDm4 ) uses a frequency in the 118-136 .975 MHz block , which is internationally reserved for aviation . Normally these frequencies are used for voice communications , so a special radio is required to support VDLm4 . Just like UAT , VDL mode 4 allows for services like TIS-B and FIS-B . VDLm4 was tried in Sweden and Russia , but has not been able to gather much mass . It is unlikely that it will be used on a large scale . Since you mention 2020 as the year by which aircraft should be equipped with ADS-B I am going to assume you are from FAA-land . The FAA mandates aircraft in the 48 contiguous states ( and D.C. ) that operate in class A , B , or C airspace or class E airspace above 10000ft ( class E airspace below 2500 AGL excluded ) to be ADS-B OUT equipped by January 1st , 2020 . The mandate itself can be found <URL> and the associated Advisory Circular ( AC90-114 ) can be found <URL> . Aircraft operating below 18000 ft can use either UAT or 1090ES . Above 18000ft , 1090ES is to only approved ADS-B technology . Countries that have ADS-B mandates are ( this list is probably not exhaustive ) Australia Canada ( Hudson bay ) China Countries in the <URL> Fiji Hong Kong India Indonesia Seychelles <URL> <URL> Vietnam
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
Generally two groups have authority to close a runway ( or airport ) for an incident/emergency , and if either says it 's closed , it 's closed : The airport owner/operator/management . It 's their facility , so if they say it 's closed , it 's closed . Specifically it 's the persons authorized to issue NOTAMs for the airport who can close a runway ( by issuing the NOTAM saying it 's closed ) , but the chain of command for making this decision may vary from airport to airport . Runways may also be closed by airport administration without issuing a NOTAM ( this happens frequently at Brookhaven airport ( KHWV ) - <URL> will be put out on the crosswind runway when the banner tow operators are set up for pick-up/release on that runway ) . Often there 's a blanket NOTAM about " banner tow ops " or similar that sort-of covers this situation ( basically " Expect strange things to be happening because the banner tow people are doing ... whatever it is they do " . ) The control tower ( if one exists ) . Whether or not they have the administrative authority to " close " a runway , they certainly have the practical authority to do so by denying anyone clearance to take off/land from it or to enter it , and by issuing NOTAMs indicating that a runway is closed/unusable for some reason . At an airport like LaGuardia where you have both an FAA Control Tower and a robust airport operations/management group ( The Port Authority of New York &amp; New Jersey ) a Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) or similar agreement is likely in place to ensure that everyone knows who is authorized to do what when , but in cases like this where an aircraft has a runway excursion the course of action is pretty obvious and nobody is going to want aircraft to be moving around on the ground until the situation is under control and safety can be assured .
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
The FAA 's <URL> says that it 's about formatting : Q : Will an FPL be automatically rejected or is that a manual function ? A : ERAS automatically rejects an improperly formatted FPL . The Rejection ( REJ ) message usually includes information which identifies the error . The filer should correct the error and reenter the FPL . That seems to be confirmed in this <URL> that goes into detail on computerized flight plan formats , filing etc. . Section 3.7.2 lists all the possible reasons for the ERAS computer to return a REJ ( rejected ) message , and they 're all to do with formatting or invalid values , e.g. airspeed ca n't be zero . To me , that makes sense : no one knows the equipment or capabilities of an aircraft except the person ( or organization ) submitting the flight plan . Even if the FAA had a database of every aircraft in the world , what happens if your GPS unit burns out and you want to file IFR using only standard IFR equipment ( VOR , ILS ) ? Or you want to fly at a reduced ( or increased ) cruise speed for some mechanical or performance testing reason ? The FAA could n't possibly know if your submitted values are correct . I do n't know ( and could n't find out ) if there 's any situation where <URL> ca n't generate a <URL> even though the flight plan is accepted as valid . If it does happen , I suppose that would be a sort of secondary check . As an aside , I was at an <URL> meeting last week and we discussed the new ICAO flight plan format ( new to the US , that is ! ) . A couple of controllers were there , and they said that you have to be careful about what equipment you put in your flight plan in case you get assigned something beyond the pilot 's capabilities . For example , a Cirrus is <URL> and if you input all the equipment correctly in the flight plan then you may get a complex SID rather than just departure vectors . If you are n't familiar and comfortable with the avionics then you might get yourself in trouble , so it would be better to file only basic avionics . That kind of decision is n't something the FAA could or should validate .
end question
start question
Can a GPS signal sent to a plane be spoofed ?
Spoofing GPS means broadcasting a false GPS signal - This is harder than jamming GPS which can be done relatively easily by broadcasting a strong random signal at the relevent carrier frequencies . GPS receivers use GPS ephemeris tables which tell them where exactly they should expect each satellite to be . So the false GPS signal has to look enough like a real GPS signal that the receiver will accept it and use it 's transmitted data in it 's calculations . Of course , if , for example , the expansionist president of a country with advanced avionics capability decided to supply sophisticated equipment and the associated personnel to a separatist group in a neighbouring country , it might be possible for them to bring about this kind of result . There have been <URL> of this kind of spoofing actually happening , so it appears to be possible . The U of Texas students built a GPS spoofing device for about $ 3,000 . A pair of students , the " attackers , " then sat aboard the upper deck of the White Rose , where their GPS spoofer emitted a counterfeit signal slightly stronger than the real GPS signal . This was a yacht at sea , presumably out of sight of land on a featureless ocean . It may be more difficult to achieve this with an airliner , which have a variety of navigational instruments , including radio navigation beacon receivers . Inconsistent indications may alert the pilot to a problem . Non-GPS navigational instruments/systems that may be found in an aircraft include : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
If the static port gets blocked in an aircraft with no alternate static port , you can break the glass of the VSI ( Vertical Speed Indicator ) to allow air from inside the cockpit in the static system . By doing this you will sacrifice the VSI in favour of the altimeter and airspeed indicator Due to venturi effects , air inside the cockpit has usually a slightly lower pressure than the pressure measured by the static port outside your aircraft . This causes your altimeter to indicate a higher altitude and the airspeed indicator will also indicate a greater speed . The VSI is useless after you break it . Needless to say this does not apply to pressurized cabins nor to glass cockpits ... This works because the inside of the VSI contains a diaphragm in a pressure chamber . The diaphragm is connected to the static system through an unrestricted tube . The chamber is connected to the static system through a restricted ( calibrated ) leak . If the static pressure changes , the pressure in the diaphragm changes instantly , while the chamber pressure lags slightly behind . This causes the membrane to expand / retract which drives the needle on the instrument . When the glass is broken , the chamber will be at the same pressure as the cockpit . Through the calibrated leak , the static system will be levelled with the cockpit pressure , but of course with a delay as well . The VSI will now work in opposite direction ( if you did n't destroy the needle ) . The inner workings of an IVSI Some VSI apparently have the calibrated leak into the cockpit already . For such VSI 's smashing the glass does not work . Here the diaphragm should be destroyed as well .
Currently , the 777 has engines that have a max thrust of <URL> , for a total of 230,000 lbf of thrust . The 747-8 has engines with a max thrust of <URL> , each , for a total of 266000 . And just to throw in for comparison , the A380 , currently has engines each producing <URL> of thrust , and a total of 288,000 lbf . Right now the 777 has some of the highest thrust producing engines in commercial service . This does not take into account the extra thrust that is required for engine out issues . With a 2 engine design you have to have enough extra thrust for loss of engine during take-off at max take off weight . Whereas with a 4 engine design , you only have to have enough thrust to account for loss of 1 engine . So for a 747 twin engine aircraft , as a rough estimate you 'd need to have each engine produce at least 150,000 lbf of thrust if not more .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
What you are proposing is called a " tandem wing " , and it 's been done before . A brief search should produce more than enough research papers about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular design . The near-complete absence of multiple-wing designs in modern aviation should be a hint that the design has issues . Unless you particularly need the advantages of the design more than the drawbacks , there 's no particular reason to use it .
Sonic booms from low flying aircraft , while loud , do n't seem to cause hearing damage , as this F-14 pilot demonstrates during a Tiger Cruise air wing demonstration . Now military fighters will sometimes make a ' show of force ' in the form of a low altitude , high speed pass against threat forces which do n't have a substantial IADS capability in order to motivate them to disperse under threat of employing ordanance on them if they continue belligerence . UPDATE : I found this story about an F-16 2-ship over Iraq on a CAS patrol mission . The pilots get a radio call from desperate SOCOM operators pinned down by enemy troops at night . The pilots can not get a IR strobe to track for bombing , so the lead Viper uses a sonic boom delivered from a dive to frighten off the combatants .
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
Normally , an airfoil is optimized for best lift/drag ( L/D ) efficiency for a certain flight profile ( usually a compromise ) . Since most of the time for most aircraft inverted flight is not an issue , you get an airfoil that is optimized for upright flight , and this is best achieved with asymmetric geometries . However , depending on the <URL> any airfoil can ( and will ) generate " negative " lift , only much less efficiently so , than for the optimized regime , resulting in increased drag . The desired angle of attack for conventional aerodynamically controlled aircraft is maintained by the elevator . For symmetric airfoils commonly used for aerobatic planes , the performance for upright and inverted flight is quite similar . For 99 % of all other airfoils inverted flight will work up to a certain point , depending on the available power , CG , the maximum lift and rudder forces availabe before stall . As a result , for some aircraft , a stable inverted flight can not be maintained , while for others it could be ( but with varying penalty to performance , stall speed etc ) . The aerodynamical possiblity of inverted flight is of course limited by structural and other considerations .
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
The combat advantage of fighters ( as opposed to heavier-payload bombers ) is their maneuverability , therefore a missile delivery restriction such as g-limit ( think Sidewinder heat-seeker in a dogfight ) or attitude would unnecessarily restrict their efficacy . As a Vietnam-era fighter and attack pilot I fired both unguided ( aim and shoot rockets ) and guided ( target lock-on and shoot ) missiles , and neither had associated attitude limits . Missiles that fall clear of the weapon station before rocket-motor ignition ( such as the TV-guided Walleye or the optically-pilot-guided Bullpup ) are obviously restricted from negative g to ensure safe separation from the airplane , i.e. , negative g release from an under-wing weapon station would all but guarantee impact with the airplane .
The Turbo Dakota ( PA-28-201T ) is very close to what you seem to be describing and is likely much less expensive to buy outright vs. the time and materials required to modify a lowly PA-28-1xx . The published ceiling is FL200 with its TSIO-360 but at light weights * I 'm sure a determined pilot could coax it to FL230 or FL250 . So , the answer is : a big TSIO engine . The 260hp TSIO-470-B ( only TSIO-470 made to my knowledge ) would probably do the trick . A TSIO-520 has taken me to FL250 in a T210 so I know it would probably take a Cherokee at least that high assuming that you successfully attach the engine to the plane ( approvals , engineering , mechanical , W&amp;B , etc ) . * The Dakota is one of the few small single engine planes with a gross weight of more than twice its empty weight leaving plenty of wiggle room for a pilot seeking to extract better than book performance from the plane . ** Answer assumes you have an O2 system that will do the job at FL250 .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
Yes . You can , as long as you have the appropriate rating and are the sole manipulator of controls . From a <URL> : ... a private pilot may log pilot-in-command time , in a complex or high performance airplane , for those portions of the flight when he or she is the sole manipulator of the controls because the aircraft being operated is single-engine land and the private pilot holds a single-engine land rating . ... 14 CFR section 61.31 requires a person to have an endorsement from an authorized instructor before he or she may act as pilot in command of certain aircraft ( a complex airplane , a high performance airplane , a pressurized airplane capable of operating at high altitudes , or a tailwheel airplane ) . These endorsements are not required to log pilot-in-command time under 14 CFR section 61.51 ( e ) . ( emphasis mine ) Excerpt from <URL> : ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( iv ) When the pilot performs the duties of pilot in command while under the supervision of a qualified pilot in command provided -- ( A ) The pilot performing the duties of pilot in command holds a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate and aircraft rating that is appropriate to the category and class of aircraft being flown , if a class rating is appropriate
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
I just saw BowlOfRed 's comment , and listened to it again and I could make it out this time as " Tug 1 and Company " . So , basically , when used with vehicles , using " and company " will often indicate that there 's more than one vehicle in the group ( or possibly aircraft in tow ) , and whoever 's being addressed is in charge of talking for them . Just like when a flight of aircraft is flying or taxing , whoever 's talking for the flight , that callsign is used for the whole group . For other examples of " and company " : During snowplow operations , usually you 'll just have 1 driver in a group talking to Ground/Tower for that group , and they 're also in charge of reporting when all their group is clear of runways or other movement areas . Other times , it 's when airport operations is escorting ( via vehicle ) other vehicles on the airport , from survey crews to construction crews .
The torque in a helicopter is generated by the engine driving the main rotor in one direction , which causes the fuselage to spin in the other direction . The tail rotor shaft is horizontally mounted and hence creates it own ' lift ' to provide anti-torque . The pitch of the tail rotor gives directional control . Common ways to design a helicopter without a tail rotor : Tandem rotors : Two main rotors mounted one in front of the other . The rotor discs spin in opposite directions . All power from the engines is used for lift . Example : CH-47 Transverse rotors : Two main rotors mounted side-by-side . Example : Kamov Ka-22 Co-axial rotors : Two rotor discs are mounted one on top of the other . The engine units power both rotors . This structure requires a very complex swashplate mechanism . Example : Kamov Ka-25 Intermeshing rotors : In this main rotor assembly , the two set rotor masts are installed at a slight angle to each other , in a transversely symmetric manner , so that the rotor blades intermesh without colliding with each other . Example : Kaman K-MAX Tip jet : This is an interesting solution to the no-tail-rotor problem . Instead of driving the rotors with a turboshaft engine , compressed air is sent through nozzles installed at the tips of rotor blades . The engines effectively push against the air rather than the helicopter fuselage . The rotor spins just like a Catherine wheel . Example : Hiller Hornet NOTAR : NOTAR - NO TAil Rotor uses a fan inside the boom to build a high volume of low-pressure air , which exits through two slots and creates a boundary layer flow of air along the tailboom utilizing the Coandă effect . The boundary layer changes the direction of airflow around the tailboom , creating thrust opposite the motion imparted to the fuselage by the torque effect of the main rotor . Example : MD-900 Refer to <URL> for more !
end question
start question
Why do n't aeroplanes use propellers with more blades like the intake on a fanjet ?
Every blade will create its own boundary layer and its own vortex sheet . It is more efficient to use fewer blades with deeper chord , because the forward part of a boundary layer contributes most to friction drag . To keep the lift coefficient on the propeller blade sections in a reasonable range ( 0.6 to 1.0 ) for efficiency means that blade chord will be reduced , which will make them less stiff . Again , it will be better to reduce blade count to arrive at a more viable design . All the thrust the propeller creates is pulling on those skinny blades , and they must be strong enough to withstand this force . Only when the propeller disc loading increases do more blades begin to make sense : When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way out . You are right , a lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction .
Thrust reversal is a complex system ( equals money ) and it uses significant amount of fuel ( also equals money ) . It is not a very efficient means to reduce the speed of a landing aircraft either , and other methods ( e.g. brakes or <URL> ) are much better suited . The biggest advantage of thrust reversal is that it cancels out the idle forward thrust working against the aircraft . Canceling out idle thrust is n't an issue on most fighters , as they have an engine nozzle that is open at ground idle to prevent any thrust from being produced . This nozzle probably also makes it a bit difficult to integrate Thrust reversals , but the <URL> proves it can be done .
It does help a little , yes . One source of noise is the fluctuation in dynamic pressure experienced by a blade of the rear propeller when it cuts through the wake of a blade of the forward propeller . Friction in the boundary layer on the first blade will reduce the dynamic pressure locally and create pressure fluctuations on the second blade , and noise . By using a different number of blades , the pressure fluctuations will not happen all at the same time , but sequentially , which reduces the peak power of the noise . The effect of the second blade cutting through the wake of the first is still there , but is distributed over time . Thanks to @MSalters for pointing out another effect . I copy straight from his comment : The effect is not just distributed over time , but also shifted up in frequency . At 6000 RPM ( 100 Hz ) , with 4 blades per propeller they pass each other 8 times per revolution ( 800 Hz ) . If the second propeller has 5 blades , this moves up to 4000 Hz . <URL> , picture by Marina Lystseva . The forward propeller has 8 blades and the rear propeller has 6 . For optimum noise reduction , the rear propeller should have just one blade less than the forward propeller . The leading edge sweep helps to stretch out the contact of a single blade with the wake over time , which again reduces peak noise .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
Yes it is correct that helicopters use more fuel when hovering : the engine needs to apply more power to overcome drag . Here is a graph of the engine power required for different airspeeds , from J. Gordon Leishman , Principles Of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> The line for total power goes down between 0 - 70 kts with increasing airspeed , this is caused by the line for induced power : power required to overcome the induced drag of the helicopter blade . The total required engine power is the summation of : Induced power . The power required to overcome the induced drag of lift creation , further detailed below . Propulsive power relates to the engine exhaust velocity now being helpful , and to the rise in induced power at higher speeds due to compressibility drag . Profile power , required for the blade profile drag . Parasitic power , for the drag caused by the air frame , rotor hub etc. . Zero in the hover , very dominant at top speed . Helicopters have shapes that are way less aerodynamic than fixed wing planes , and this source of drag becomes very significant at higher speeds . Tail rotor power . Up to 20 % of the main rotor power both in the hover and at top speed , very low in the middle due to the helpful vertical tail . At top speed the torque of the main rotor is high and the tail rotor must do more work , unless the vertical tail can be adjusted . <URL> Induced power is dominant in the hover . Induced drag is caused by the backwards tilt of the lift vector : the higher the angle between blade and free stream , the more the vector is tilted backwards , which causes both loss of lift and increase of drag . The equation for lift L is : $ $ L = C_L \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot S$ $ and at a given altitude , the two variables here are $ C_L $ ( lift coefficient ) and $ V$ ( airspeed at the blade ) . $ C_L $ is an approximately linear function of angle of attack at the blade , so lift increases linearly with blade tilt-back and quadratically with increasing airspeed over the blade . <URL> Above graph from Leishman shows the velocity distribution over the blades when hovering , and at airspeed . Quite a complicated situation - when hovering , the airspeed reaching the blade is only the rotational speed of the rotor , at forward speed the blade going forward has rotational speed plus airspeed . The helicopter does not roll over and both forward blade and retreating blade deliver the same amount of lift , with the rearward going blade tilted back more than it was in the hover . But the forward going blade is tilted back a lot less : airspeed has a quadratic influence . Note that the circle in the plot at fwd airspeed is not stalled flow , but reverse flow : the air streams in at the back of the blade . So drag is now negative , the airstream helps to propel the blade ! However there is loss of lift in the reverse flow area . Induced power reduces with airspeed at first according to the simple 1-D impulse consideration ( more air mass through the disk ) , and later increases as the disk is increasingly tilted forward and must do more work to overcome losses from rotor profile drag , airframe parasitic drag , and compressibility drag . There is also an interference effect of the downwash over the fuselage : in the hover the air streams straight down , while in forward flight the rotor wash is more aligned with the fuselage , catching more of a streamline shape . Parasitic drag is of course dominant at top speed , while offloading the rotor by using fixed wing surfaces reduces the induced power at high speeds - but from hover to moderate forward speeds it is purely the reduction in lift induced power that creates translational lift . <URL>
After watching the video the problem he was having was in keeping it horizontal . It appears that the software is n't able to control the unpowered motors . I know absolutely nothing about quads but I 'm assuming with a fixed rotor pitch they must use variable voltage to the motor to control everything such as translational movement . I 'm also assuming they have an accelerometer to determine pitch . The first question is how accurate the accelerometer is at low g 's . Second , when in free fall if a rheostat that is controlled by the computer could be connected across the sides of the motor then your problem could be solved . The freewheeling motors will create a voltage just like a generator so a rheostat would be able to control the current and thus the mechanical resistance to the motor . The rheostat will have an inverse relationship with the mechanical resistance ( more electrical resistance less mechanical resistance ) . How linear that relationship is you 'll have to experiment with . If you have the software switch to controlling that resistance it should be able to direct the freefall in the same way it does everything under power , only it will be more limited In its authority . If you do it right you might even be able to use the power generated to recover a little bit of the energy from the fall to charge the batteries like a hybrid car does . Like I said , I know absolutely zero about quadecopters so I ca n't fill in any details , but it seems feasible .
The reason is that bigger windows really are n't necessary . They are plenty big for the crew to see the runway just fine . Pilots have more than 180 degrees of visibility , and plenty of vertical visibility as well . Traffic routes and patterns are designed to make it easy for the pilots to see the runway as well . If the runway is behind you , then you need to turn around . If it 's below what you can see out the window , you are too high anyway . And if it 's above what you can see out the window , you probably have more important issues than finding the runway . Larger windows can help spot danger like other aircraft , but airliners are almost always flown under Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) where ATC is responsible for keeping them clear of conflicting traffic . In the past , <URL> did have larger window area . This was more important in an era where instrument navigation was more limited , and the pilots relied much more on their view outside . It was also more common on aircraft with military heritage , where it was more likely for pilots to find themselves relying on visual references instead of navigational aids . However , modern navigation systems have made larger windows even less useful . The instruments can tell pilots just about anything they need to know about anything they ca n't see out the windows . The 737 actually started with " <URL> " above the main row of windows . Modern systems have made those less useful , and the extra holes in the fuselage can cause cracks over time . Most 737 's delivered today do n't have them , and some of the old planes even get those windows plugged . Aside from the functional reasons for not increasing window size , <URL> will apply here as well .
Even small 1 hp electrical motors can achieve that RPM Yes , but can it sustain that RPM when something tries to stop it , that is the question . 1 hp combustion engines can get to 2700 rpm as well , but you can not attach a propeller to it , stick it in the air , and expect it to maintain the RPM . It takes a lot of torque to create aerodynamic thrust . It is a fact that electric motors are way better at producing torque than combustion engines . An electric motor produces almost maximum torque at the get-go , with the rotor standing still . The combustion engine needs to make RPM in order to make torque . <URL> compares electric motors with combustion engines for powering a hydraulic pump : a 20 hp electric motor can do the job that a 50 hp combustion engine can do . Electric motor : <URL> Combustion engine : intermittent torque means torque pulse from combustion . <URL> But wait , is that even possible ? Power is power , kilowatt is kilowatt , and it should not matter which engine we use to generate the kilowatts , they should all equate to equal amounts says the first law of thermodynamics , the conservation of energy . But it does matter , since with a combustion engine torque is a function of RPM . So increase RPM , and power increases due to increased RPM and increased torque . At lower RPM the combustion engine may simply lack the torque to speed up , while the electric motor has an almost flat torque curve . This same happens with outboard motors , when comparing 2-stroke with 4-stroke . 2-stroke has way more torque at lower revs , the 4-stroke may have the same horsepower but may never get to the high revs because it lacks the ability to get the boat planing . But I digress . To get back to your questions : What 's the use of so much torque , and what happens if there is less torque at the same RPM To keep the output shaft at this RPM while the propeller is pushing all that air backwards . That requires a serious amount of torque . If there is less torque at the same RPM , there will be less thrust produced and the aeroplane wo n't fly as fast . Can an electric motor perform similar to the Lycoming IO-360 with the same max . RPM , but with just half the torque of the latter ? Well , the surprising thing is that a horsepower is not a horsepower . Part of the problem lies in the horsepower output functions , so maybe an electric motor with a lower hp rating can be used . But one thing is very clear : at the RPM of the propeller , a certain torque is required at a certain speed to keep the propeller turning . This amount of torque will always be the same , no matter what kind of engine produces it .
It has to do with the local speed around the airfoil . In a canard configuration , the forward wing has to produce more lift per area than the main wing in order to have <URL> . This means the suction is more intense , and the pressure on the upper side of the airfoil right behind the leading edge is lower than on the main wing . Also , the angle of attack of the wing is higher , presenting a larger area to the oncoming flow . Large droplets of supercooled water will simply splash on the leading edge and freeze there instantly , causing clear icing . In a conventional aircraft the tail surface will provide very little lift , and in many cases even produces a <URL> . Now the main wing shows lower pressure on the forward part of the airfoil , just where ice collects the most . In the special case where the tailplane is in the wake of the wing , some of the water droplets will have frozen to the wing already and less water will be available to cause tailplane icing . The capacity of air to hold water depends not only on temperature , but also on pressure : The lower the pressure , <URL> . Condensed , super-cooled water , or liquid water hitting a cool surface , will form ice . Now you have both components needed for the explanation . Pitch stability is the explanation for the higher propensity of canard wings to collect ice than conventional tailplanes !
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
Because it is fairly easy to determine which runway is the correct one by other means . Runways are numbered based on their compass direction . The runway number will be the compass direction divided by 10 - for example , a runway with a direction of 150 degrees would be numbered 15 . This makes it possible to verify that you are using the correct runway by simply looking at your compass , to make sure the runway is pointing in the right direction . Even during day time in nice weather , this check is routinely performed before taking off by most pilots . Runway identifiers for parallel runways are suffixed with an ' L' for the left runway and an ' R ' for the right runway ( from the pilot perspective ) . At airports with three parallel runways , the identifier of the middle one will be suffixed with ' C ' for center . When approaching an airport at night , the runways will - as you point out - be clearly lit . It is easy for the pilot to spot any parallel runways and make sure they are approaching the correct one , simply by observing the relative position of the runways . During night or periods with degraded visibility , most traffic will make use of precision instrument approach systems , such as ILS , which will guide the plane precisely to the correct runway , without much risk for confusion . On the ground , clear airport signage make it nearly impossible to mistake which runway you are on . In addition , at busy airports with multiple runways , air traffic control service is likely to be provided . Air traffic controllers will monitor all aircraft movements on the maneuvering area and in the vicinity of the aerodrome , and will quickly be able to notify any pilot who is about to use a wrong runway . Another point is that lighted runway numbers would probably be pretty ineffecient , as the relatively small size of runway numbers would make it impossible to read them from a distance , even if they were lit . A pilot approaching a wrong runway would notice this too late to be able to make corrections , and would have to perform a missed approach . Granted , doing so would in many cases be better than landing on the wrong runway .
Boarding takes a long time , true . There are <URL> which <URL> to speed up boarding by between 20 % and 50 % , still they are not adopted . Why ? You need to load the baggage , too . Also the catering . And fuel . You need to inspect the aircraft , run through checklists and brief the new crew . This all takes up time , too . Airlines do not see a big saving by loading passengers faster , and then waiting for all other jobs to be completed . Your radical idea of containerizing passenger transport would certainly speed up things , but it would cost a lot of payload . The most efficient pressure vessel is a sphere , and the next efficient is a cylinder with spherical ends . Pressurizing a boxy container is structurally very inefficient . Loading passengers on palettes first and sliding those palettes through a narrow opening takes time in itself . And the palettes have their own weight , their own floor , their own support structure for the baggage racks , their own cabeling for the entertainment system . They would , however , not need their independent pressurization , so their weight impact would be moderate . A possible " flatbed " airliner which could attain the shortest boarding times has only half as much fuselage height ( or less ) to transmit bending loads along its length . <URL> for an example of buckling in a fuselage skin due to bending loads . Now consider that reducing height by 50 % will need four times more cross section in the longerons to keep stiffness constant . That will make the fuselage much heavier . In the end , airlines go with the solution which maximizes their profits . By using a hollow cylinder and let their " cargo " self-load , they can maximize their payload and get tolerable boarding times . Tolerable for them , that is . That better loading procedures could allow you to come to the airport later is of no interest to them . If they would see an advantage in shorter boarding times , there would be ample of opportunity by improving strategies , even with existing airplane designs .
First , some airliners do use it - the <URL> ( Noise and Vibration Suppression ) system to reduce cabin noise . Basically , it uses devices called Active Tuned Vibration Absorbers ( ATVAs ) mounted on the fuselage frames to ' cancel ' the vibrations from propellers and outside noise , thereby quieting the cabin . However , there are some issues with using active noise cancellation in aircraft : The aircraft cabin is quite big and complex , and it would be very difficult to achieve noise cancellation over the entire volume ; as active noise cancellation depends on the cancellation of sound waves using opposite phase , it works best in small , confined spaces . If the waves turn out to be in phase in a region , the sound would be doubled - not a good result . A significant contributor to the noise inside the cabin is the wind outside ; this is usually random and the frequency spectrum is also quite wide , resulting in difficulties in noise cancellation . Noise cancellation is effective mostly when the frequency of the source is constant , which is not usually the case ( the props are an exception - they lend themselves well to noise suppression ) Instead of active noise cancellation , aircraft manufacturers are putting more energy in reducing the noise itself : Better engines , which has lesser noise through the use of chevrons , etc. . Better modelling of aircraft , so that the fuselage design minimizes the noise due to wind . Better damping and cabin design , so the noise produced ( for example , due to air conditioning and ventilation ) is reduced .
Not linear , because the back side of N1 will influence the flow . Not only that but the flow is non linear with respect to rotation in most axial flow compressors . Is there a specific engine or cycle that you are wondering about , because that changes the answer to your question ?
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
This situation is due to usually 2 + sectors being worked . Each sector will use its own frequency when split . When these sectors get combined , one of 2 things will happen . 1 ) The controller will just work with both sectors frequencies keyed up and be listening on both and transmitting on both and have everyone go to the approrpriate frequency for the sector they 're in or near . 2 ) The controller wants everyone on one frequency and has everyone going into those sector 's that they are working to be on just one frequency . Frequency congestion and capability ( if the transmitters/receivers are different locations for the different frequencies ) are also factors .
TCAS can deal with conflicts with multiple aircraft , a so called Multiple Threat Encounter . It will attempt to resolve the conflict but it will be limited in its options . Examples of a MTE are rare , one case I can point to is <URL> involving an aircraft turning into the approach stream between two aircraft instead of following the last in line . <URL> has reported on MTEs and the TCAS algorithm performance in 2009 . They report the majority of MTEs involved three aircraft , but mention one TCAS MTE involving seven aircraft .
The transponders that have the problem of inadvertently selecting/transmitting " incorrect " ( or emergency ) codes are old-tech designs . Much like the old-tech radio designs there was no concept of " standby frequency " or " code being entered " - whatever was on the face of the instrument is what it 's doing . Radios of the same vintage have the same interface ( e.g. the KX-170b ) : <URL> The usual solution for the old-tech transponders is to think before you spin the knob . If you were squawking and told to squawk VFR ( 1200 in the US or 7000 in most of Europe ) you would n't turn the right-digit until you 'd adjusted one of the other two so you would n't inadvertently squawk one of the emergency/alert codes . ( The radar system could still see you squawking the " wrong " code for one or two passes in this situation , but that 's a self-resolving problem and it generally does n't set off any alarms for ATC . ) Modern ( push-button entry ) transponders do have an " inactive " squawk code in that then new code is n't transmitted until after you 're done entering it . Most also have a clear or one-touch VFR button in case you make an error entering the new code , so if ATC assigned you code and you inadvertently punched in turbulence you do n't need to keep entering a " wrong " code - just hit clear or VFR and try again .
The blades are loose in their " Fir Tree " blade mounts so that they can self balance . They are called " fir tree " because they are v shaped . As the rotation speed and centrifugal force increases , they move in the mounts and establish individual lead/lag positions to achieve a balanced disc . It will be understood that turbine wheels rotate at very high speeds of rotation , thereby generating large centirfugal forces tending to throw the blades outwardly from the wheel . By providing contact surfaces of equal and opposite slope with respect to the longitudinal axis of the root on opposite sides of root , the force components of the centrifugal force balance each other out . Periodic and other vibrations which might otherwise be generated are damped out and greatly minimized Source : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You 're almost certainly talking about a <URL> , who is just an airport ( FBO ) employee who gives information to pilots on their request . The FAA 's Pilot Handbook <URL> : UNICOM is a nongovernment air/ground radio communication station which may provide airport information at public use airports where there is no tower or FSS . On pilot request , UNICOM stations may provide pilots with weather information , wind direction , the recommended runway , or other necessary information . If the UNICOM frequency is designated as the CTAF , it will be identified in appropriate aeronautical publications . The important point is that UNICOM is not ATC . A UNICOM operator can not give you instructions , clearances or require you to do anything . He can only give you information , and as PIC it 's up to you to decide how to use that information . The <URL> that Porcupine911 <URL> is a great example of that . A student pilot thought that UNICOM was telling him which runway to land on , whereas in fact the operator was only recommending a runway ( presumably based on the prevailing wind or whatever ) . Unfortunately , the operator recommended the opposite runway to the one that was actually in use by other pilots . Like pilots , UNICOM operators vary in their experience and competence . A good UNICOM operator ( in my opinion ) will give you the local wind and altimeter information , tell you if there are other aircraft in the pattern or nearby , tell you which runway is in use by those aircraft , and give you any essential safety information ( like a closed runway ) . But as PIC , I 'm still going to listen to CTAF and AWOS and look for other traffic before choosing a runway and joining the pattern . It 's also common for no one to reply to a UNICOM call ( because the operator is out fueling aircraft in his other role as lineman , for example ) , in which case you 're going to have to sort things out without it anyway . So there 's no need to " report " anything : UNICOM operators are a well-known and official service , but you have to know how to use them and what their limitations are .
end question
start question
What is the best strategy for landing when a flock of birds is on the runway ?
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
A " circle-to-land " maneuver is basically a low-altitude traffic pattern - albeit one that you arrived at by being guided in on some instrument approach . The magic that makes this low ( and possibly abbreviated ) pattern possible is that the runway ends at airports with circling approaches have protected ( obstacle free ) airspace around them , which looks something like this : ( A more detailed explanation of the size of the circling approach area can be found <URL> . ) Since it 's basically a traffic pattern my understanding is you treat it as such , and that as long as you stay in visual contact with the airport and within the protected airspace ( by visually judging your distance from the field , and knowing your altitude ) you 're unlikely to hit anything , and you can do all your usual pattern maneuvering as long as you can *** visually * be sure you 're within the pretty blue part of the image above ( your GPS cant help you here ) . To see what this means for an example approach with some turns , consider my liberally-stolen and slightly-marked-up diagram below . If you lose contact with your intended runway end for a few seconds because of the turn/bank required at point " A " that 's OK : as long as you can still maintain visual contact with the airport/runway environment when you roll out ( say by looking out the back window ) , and as long as you can remain clear of clouds , and can maintain visual clearance from any potential obstacles you may continue the approach . If you 're flying out and on the leg from " A " to " B " and all of a sudden you look back out the window and the airport is gone in the haze and clouds , you need to go missed : You 've lost the airport/runway environment , and can no longer judge your distance to stay in the " safe " airspace . Similarly if you 're in a high-wing aircraft and your turns at " B " and " C " briefly obscure the airport while you 're turning you can still continue the approach - if you 've any doubt where the airport is just pick up the wing like you would in a VFR pattern ( and if the airport is n't there like it 's supposed to be go missed ! ) Regarding your bird scenario , that 's an interesting one that I do n't think is covered in any diagrams , but if a flock of birds causes you to maneuver in such a way that you lose contact with the airport ( and you ca n't just pick up a wing and have it be right where you expected it to be ) you 're obviously going to have to abandon the approach and go missed . It 's the equivalent of the airport disappearing in the haze on that A-to-B leg . Honestly though , if a flock of birds shows up and hangs out in a way that requires you to start maneuvering around them while you 're trying to shoot a circling approach in real IFR you may want to just go missed anyway ( given the odds this probably wo n't cost you too many approaches ) . In a real world situation with poor visibility , possibly precipitation , and likely a cloud ceiling really close to your altitude , do you really want to try to be maneuvering down low to avoid some stupid bird that could n't even be bothered to call the tower ? Would n't you feel much better pointing the aircraft in a generally " upward " direction and following the nice friendly needle again for a little while ? I 'm just starting my IFR training , but I think I 'd feel better with that option :-)
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
The weight of the battery is <URL> : Power is provided by 127 kg . of 250-volt lithium-ion polymer batteries from Kokam in South Korea built into the wing . A slightly different weight is <URL> : ... E-Fan has two lithium-polymer battery packs weighing 65 kg each . I could not find which Kokam battery is being used on the e-fan , but <URL> for all of their batteries .
It depends . Skybrary says The Runway Excursion category includes also two types of occurrences which do not fit the ICAO ADREP definition for a runway excursion , however considered appropriate for inclusion due to the commonality of a number of causal and contributory factors and/or mitigation approaches : An aircraft attempting a landing touches down in the undershoot area of the designated landing runway within the aerodrome perimeter . A runway or taxiway other than the designated one is used for a take off or a landing . My emphasis . The European Commercial Aviation Safety Team ( ECAST ) in the European Strategic Safety Initiative ( ESSI ) use the Skybrary definition when writing about <URL> Articles within the Runway Excursion Category in SKYbrary : Overrun on Take Off Overrun on Landing Directional Control Undershoot on Landing Wrong Runway My emphasis . In an article <URL> in Eurocontrol 's magazine in 2011 , Bert Ruitenberg wrote : The whole idea of putting a label such as " runway incursion " or " runway excursion " on a safety occurrence is to make it easier to file the data from the event somewhere and to compare it with similar occurrences . With the definitions above , a take off from a taxiway would be considered as a Runway Excursion when the Skybrary definition is used , but not with the other RE definitions ( and rightly so , I say , better label it a " taxiway take off " ) . Moreover , in the ICAO definition , the B777 undershoot at Heathrow would not be a RE , but with the Skybrary definition it would be . Dear Safety Managers of the world , there still is a lot of work to be done ...
In order to state the plane is airworthy you must be able to show that all AD 's have been complied with and that the aircraft is within annual ( or 100 hour ) inspection ; these proofs are typically found in the logbook so no , without the logbook your aircraft is probably not airworthy . It may be possible to fly the plane legally in the US anyway if you receive authorization from your FSDO ( which , I believe , would be a " ferry permit " ) . It 's not legally required that your logbook be complete to the beginning of time , just that it shows the current requirements are met ( along with the signatures/cert numbers of the AI 's that are stating them to be met ) . However , an incomplete logbook is very important from a resale point of view . Not having complete logs will make a plane very difficult to sell and will certainly affect the price most purchasers would be willing to pay .
I guess the keyword here is delineate . <URL> says : to mark the outline of , Example : lights delineating the narrow streets So I would take that to mean the runway edge lights , NOT the approach lighting systems .
Best $ L/D $ is short hand for the airspeed where you have the best ratio of Lift to Drag , and is the same as $ \ textrm { max } \ L/D $ . If you graph Airspeed - vs - the $ L/D $ ratio , it will look something like this : <URL> The peak point of the graph would be the " best " $ L/D $ and represents the airspeed where the airplane is the most aerodynamically efficient . For unpowered flight , it is the airspeed which will result in the best glide ratio .
The answer is indeed ( a ) . For tailwheel aircraft , what typically happens is typically the following : With all 3 wheels on the ground , you start gaining speed by increasing thrust . Very soon ( e.g. much sooner that the minimum take-off speed ) , you push the stick to lift the tailwheel off the ground and put the aircraft at more or less zero AoA . When you reach the rotate speed , you pull to increase the AoA and to lift off ( as with tricycles ) . The required pitch up angle is much smaller than what would be needed for the tail wheel to touch the ground again . Alternatively , you may keep the tailwheel on the ground all the way until liftoff . Since with the tailwheel on the ground your AoA is positive , you just need to reach enough speed to generate the required lift for take-off . This may not be possible with all tailwheel aircraft or may increase take-off run length , though .
I 'm only able to find the following about bank angles , which specifically refers to turns while in a holding pattern : <URL> 6 . ( b ) : ( b ) Make all turns during entry and while holding at : ( 1 ) 3 degrees per second ; or ( 2 ) 30 degree bank angle ; or ( 3 ) 25 degree bank provided a flight director system is used . NOTE - Use whichever requires the least bank angle . This is also in the <URL> which under * High Performance Holding on page 3-25 says that a flight director has a bank angle limit of 25 degrees . If we use the above guidelines , then a flight director will use 3 degrees per second or 25 degrees of bank , whichever is less . My calculations give us the following bank angles and associated rate of turns1 : As you can see , a jet travelling at 480 Knots TAS ( not uncommon at altitude ) would require almost a 55 degree bank angle to make a standard rate turn , which would be an amount considered by almost anyone as excessive . When limited to 25 degrees of bank , this would result in a rate of turn of 1 degree per second ( or a 6 minute turn ) . Anything over 160 Knots TAS would be less than a standard rate turn , and once past 320 Knots TAS it would n't even be a 1/2 standard rate turn . As far as the 1/2 Standard Rate , they often use the 1/2 BANK autopilot mode at high altitudes . This would result in a rate of turn approximately halved , so a 360 degree turn would take 12 minute at the same 480 Knots TAS . ATC expects the normal bank in the terminal environment though , so it is n't used at lower altitudes . As others have said , transport category jets do n't even have a rate of turn indicator ( it is n't required by 14 CFR 25 if you have a third attitude indicator ) and they simply fly bank angles . Normal hand flying is limited to 30 degrees , which would allow a standard rate turn at a slightly higher airspeed , but then starts to taper off just the same . That being said , the <URL> does include this little tidbit in the section on turn indicators on page 5-21 : The dial of these instruments is marked " 2 MIN TURN . " Some turn-and-slip indicators used in faster aircraft are marked " 4 MIN TURN . " In either instrument , a standard rate turn is being made whenever the needle aligns with a doghouse . A standard rate turn is 3 ° per second . In a 2 minute instrument , if the needle is one needle width either side of the center alignment mark , the turn is 3 ° per second and the turn takes 2 minutes to execute a 360 ° turn . In a 4 minute instrument , the same turn takes two widths deflection of the needle to achieve 3 ° per second . So maybe at some point in the past it was more common ( or maybe faster but-not-quite-as-fast-as-todays-jets ) but you just do n't see that anymore . ( It could be where all of the references to 1/2 standard rate turns come from though . ) 1 Math adapted from the formulas <URL> .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
The muzzle velocity of guns is based on multiple factors and generally sees a wide range . Most importantly how the bullet is loaded ( gun powder wise ) and what mass the bullet is . For example the P-51 mustang carried 6 <URL> . Which ( although not available at the time ) is capable of accepting the <URL> round which has a quoted muzzle velocity of 4,000 ft/s ( 1,219 m/s ) . It should also be noted that the base muzzle velocity of an M2 is 2,910 ft/s ( 890 m/s ) for <URL> . So it really depends what round you are loading in . The <URL> has the <URL> which with the TP HEI ammunition has a quoted muzzle velocity of 3,560 feet ( 1,085 m ) per second ( 15 m/s faster than the GAU-8 on the warthog ) . ( Not sure about you guys but I often test my gatling guns with my multi-meter ... ) <URL>
The brakes are much more effective than anything else , at least for the jet I have experience in ( EMB-145 ) . Our landing performance data typically assumes full braking application , spoilers deployed and no reverse thrust . The airplane will most certainly stop without using reverse thrust , just not as fast . I never tried not using the brakes , and if I were to I would want a light airplane and a very long runway . As Lnafziger pointed out in the comments , the brakes are part of redundant systems so that they are always available . In the EMB-145 , the brakes were serviced by two independent * hydraulic systems . The inboard brakes were on one system while the outboards were on the other for a total of 4 wheels each with big carbon fiber brakes . To address the comments on slick runways , assuming braking action allows an attempt to land in the first place , you have to be careful . With reverse thrust alone you may not be able to maintain the runway centerline and directional control may become difficult through uneven deployment of the reversers and other factors . In this scenario the spoilers are helpful to increase traction and brake effectiveness . In short , if the runway is slick then the only way I 'm attempting a no wheel brake landing is after I delcare an emergency . Finally , to address the question in the title , the wheel brakes are always the primary means of slowing the airplane . * You could transfer fluid between our systems through the parking brake .
I do n't think that the article suggests " pilots are using ILS for landing only in bad whether conditions " . it simply says that under foggy ( i.e. in bad weather ) , ILS is used as visual approach is not possible . The use of ILS is at the discretion of pilots with ATC permission . The ILS localiser and glideslope can still be used as a reference during the visual approach ( even if the landing is not ILS ) . The decision is the pilots ' as the visual indicators and glideslope may not match . While it is true that ILS is much more precise and safer , you are forgetting the human factor - the pilot may want to ' fly ' the aircraft rather than letting the computer do it .
There are two separate aural warnings that you might be referring to : one is indeed called ' Triple Click ' and consists of three brief clicks , but is emitted when the landing capability becomes degraded or the autopilot otherwise changes mode . The warning generated upon autopilot disconnection , instead , is the so-called ' Cavalry Charge ' and consists of three longer beeping sounds ; it 's either played once or repeated continuously ( cases 1 and 2 below ) . From a table in the Airbus A320 FCOM , DSC-31-10 P 4/6 : TRIPLE CLICK Meaning : Landing capability downgrade or some cases of mode reversion . Duration : 0.5 s ( 3 pulses ) CAVALRY CHARGE Meaning : A/P disconnection by takeover push-button . A/P disconnection due to failure . Duration : 1.5 s Permanent Cancellation : Second push on takeover push-button . Press Master Warning light or takeover push-button . See <URL> ( at 2:52 ) for a cavalry charge immediately followed by a triple click ( thank you <URL> ) .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
The primary reason is probably that it ensures there is no confusion between passengers , crew , or infants . Technically , " passengers " is the number of seats occupied , " crew " is both the pilots and flight attendants on duty . So any small children brought on as " lap children " will not be included in the " passengers " count , but should be included in the total number of people on board . I found another interesting point <URL> , which is that dead bodies are sometimes transported as well . In this case , some might consider these " people " as well . Also , in an incident , the bodies should not be confused with the regular passengers . So , " souls " effectively communicates the number of living humans on board . There may certainly be holdovers from the maritime influences on aviation as well .
The answer is quite simple : 1 . When touching down the nose is in a pulled up attitude , therefore the tail is farther down then normal . As soon as the airplane touches down ( on all wheels ) , the tail is higher , thus the hook is higher . You can see how the aircraft is in a nose up attitude , but gear and hook are on the same level . If the aircraft was sitting on all its tires , the hook would not actually touch the ground . ( This might not even be the case on all aircraft , though ! ) 2 . This is the much more important reason : The hook is hydraulically pushed onto the deck ( see Rhino Driver 's answer for more detail ) but as soon as the hook hooks to the cable , and pulls on it , that hydraulic pressure is overcome and the vectors of the forces go from where the hook is attached to the plane to where the wire comes out of the ground ( and vice versa ) . As you can see here , the hook is actually almost parallel to the deck . 3 . Last but not least : There is no space for two wires on one hook . Let 's say the airplane would catch the first rope , and for some reason ( it should definitely not happen , but let 's just pretend it does ) the hook is still on the ground where it would hook up to the second wire when crossing it , then it will maybe drag it along for a short time , but it ca n't really hook on as the hook is made to fit exactly one wire . This can be seen on this picture :
end question
start question
Why do aircraft models end their life as freighters ?
Passenger operations are overwhelmingly scheduled whereas cargo is on demand and thus less easy to plan . The upside : A cargo plane crew will fly quite diverse routes . The downside : Capacity utilisation is much worse . This shifts the balance of cost such that fixed cost must be much lower than what is possible with scheduled services . As a consequence , older aircraft with much lower depreciation cost are preferred . With them it is less costly if they do n't move for some hours or even days . Operating cost are more important when the aircraft flies as much as technically possible . Especially low cost airlines need to operate hardware with the lowest operating cost possible so they survive the next price war . Premium airlines also have a need for the newest planes : This makes them look premium and more safe . Cargo operators have no such incentive to prefer the newest airplanes ; they profit from the need of passenger airlines to sell their older hardware off . The Economist wrote in April 2013 about Norwegian Air Shuttle : As fuel prices soared in the mid-2000s , and competition from the likes of Ryanair and easyJet intensified , Mr Kjos realised that the only route to survival was to buy lots of new , fuel-efficient planes to achieve economies of scale , and to base some of them in cheaper countries . Boeing and Airbus are straining to keep up with booming demand for new aircraft , so by reserving a large chunk of their delivery slots NAS is denying potential rivals the chance to refresh their fleets with better planes . If an airline is large enough , ordering new aircraft has the added benefit of saturating supply and denying the same aircraft to its competitors . If oil prices are high , this airline will have won the price war before it started in earnest .
The FAA specifies the airplanes that require a type rating in <URL> : Sec . 61.31 - Type rating requirements , additional training , and authorization requirements . ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . So in short , large aircraft ( meaning that they weigh more than 12,500 lbs . ) , aircraft having turbojet engines , or any airplane deemed suitable complex that it needs it by the FAA need a type rating in order to fly it as PIC .
The only ' realistic ' way of carrying out a full scale evacuation of an aircraft would be to put people in it and set it on fire . That said , FAA takes some efforts to keep the evacuation tests as realistic as possible without seriously endangering the safety of the ' passengers ' . The FAA Advisory Circular <URL> lays out some rules regarding this . Only half the exits are used for evacuation by a representative mix of passengers , with some debris ( luggage , pillows etc ) strewn in the path . The aircraft is to have the maximum number of passengers and flight crew , with a representative mix of age and genders with dolls for children . Not training any of the participants in the test , i.e. both the flight crew and the participants are not trained to evacuate the ( that particular ) aircraft . According to the Advisory Circular , The flight attendants should not be trained for specific demonstration conditions , except that specific training should be given which relates to the safety of the participants prior to and during the demonstration . The participants are clearly told what they are going to do . The prospective participants should be informed of the purpose of the demonstration and the expected duration of their participation . Though the participants know ' why ' they are there , they are not supposed to know ' when ' demonstration is going to start . Neither the crew nor passengers should hear or otherwise receive any indication that the demonstration is about to begin . The first indication to participants should be the extinguishing of the normal cabin lighting . The participants should not know about the evacuation plan beforehand . If safety devices or any other equipment external to the airplane could indicate to the test participants which exits are to be used in the demonstration , passengers and crew should enter the airplane through a tunnel or other means that will prevent them from seeing that indication . The participants are more than likely paid ( employees with previous knowledge of the system are not allowed ) , though there is no mention of any ' prize ' for first getting out . The regulations simply state , Prospective participants should be informed of any direct benefits to them ( e.g. , pay , meals , etc. ) and of benefits to society The participants are prevented from interacting with outside and to recieve any information from outside the aircraft . ... exterior windows should be obscured from the outside to prevent both viewing of the outside conditions and any ground lighting from shining into the airplane . There is intense debate over how ' realistic ' the evacuation tests are . For example , the evacuation of <URL> , a Boeing 737 took more than 5 minutes ( resulting in the deaths of more than 50 people ) , though the aircraft had passed the test . According to <URL> , there are multiple problems with this type of testing : There is only one data point ( Full scale evacuation tests are costly ; each one costs nearly $ 1m ) The conditions do not reflect the actual ones experienced ( for example , fire , smoke etc. ) The participants know why they are there ( Employees of the manufacturer are not barred , though they may not sit near the exits ) . The participants do not reflect the actual demographics of the flying public , and if considered , increased the evacuation time significantly ( obviously , disabled people and kids are not there in demonstration ) . The participants do not experience any trauma . Of course adding smoke or fire is not an option as already around 4-5 percent people are getting hurt . <URL> Image from Aircraft Evacuation Testing : Research and Technology Issues September 1993 OTA-BP-SET-121 NTIS order #PB 94-107620 As a result of the aforementioned BA28M accident , UK 's , Cranfield Institute of Technology ( CIT ) carried out a number of tests which included a case where financial incentives were offered to foster competitive behavior among test participants . The study determined that , the presence of a competitive element had a significant impact on egress rates for evacuations through the bulkheads , but did not affect the rate of evacuation through the Type III exit Note : According to FAA , This type is a rectangular opening of not less than 20 inches wide by 36 inches high , with corner radii not greater than one-third the width of the exit , and with a step-up inside the airplane of not more than 20 inches . If the exit is located over the wing , the step-down outside the airplane may not exceed 27 inches . The US Department of Transportation also carried out studies , which resulted in similar conclusions . <URL> Image from Aircraft Evacuations Onto Escape Slides and Platforms I : Effects of Passenger Motivation , DOT/FAAAM -96 / 18 The study found that the introduction of smoke did not have much effect , but noted , Although this research design biased against revealing any deleterious effects of smoke on egress , previous studies using smoke had shown robust reductions in egres
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
1 ) Technology is fallible . 2 ) Humans are fallible . Now that aircraft have GPS receivers it is rare for them to be off course by a considerable margin . That said , technology can fail and there are cases where the GPS can not , or should not , be used . The crew can also make mistakes , either by incorrectly reading the navigation data or by incorrectly entering flight path details into the navigation system : An aircraft may actually be ' on course ' based on what the crew told it to do , but they told it the wrong thing . Depending on how data is entered into the system it 's easy to add the wrong waypoint ( some have very similar names , there 's been a few cases of that happening ) or to enter reciprocal bearings or lat/lon points . On top of that there 's simple crew distraction - if they 're manually flying then they may be focussing on something else and not notice that are off-course : As happened on the Sukhoi superjet demonstration flight a few years ago .
Not the FAA , but the manufacturer . If the parts are composite , only a small range of colors may be approved , depending on the <URL> of the resin matrix . For gliders , only white is allowed for most of the surface area , and similarly composite parts of airliners must be painted <URL> so they do n't heat up too much in sunlight . Curiously , the lower surface has the most restrictions , because here the reflected light from a concrete surface and the restricted ventilation create the highest surface temperatures . Next , the UV absorption capability , moisture protection characteristics and the chemical stability of the paint when in contact with aviation fuel , hydraulic fluids , de-icing fluids and other solvents is important . Composite gliders must use a special topcoat which is more brittle than the composite structure , so cracks will show up . Airliners may use more flexible paints , but must then undergo regular inspections of their composite parts . Metal surfaces are less demanding and can be painted in any color . Only the area in front of the windshield should be dark enough to reduce glare and irritating reflections .
What you are hearing is " V-One " , written as V1 . It actually is said when they can no longer safely abort the takeoff with the remaining runway , but they still are not quite ready to takeoff . As they get a little faster , there should then be a second callout of " Rotate " when they have achieved the required takeoff speed , and that is when they actually takeoff . To answer the " why " part , it is said by the pilot who is n't actually flying the airplane since he has more time to monitor the speed and can say it at exactly the right time . It alerts the other pilot that it is no longer safe to abort the takeoff and that pretty much no matter what happens now , they should continue and come back to land if needed . Edit : In my answer above , I simplified somewhat by only mentioning the available runway . There are other factors that can come into play even with a runway that is longer than needed . One example would be the speed after which the brakes can no longer stop the airplane because they would over-heat and become ineffective . This is known as the brake energy limit , and it is not safe to abort above this speed , even if you have " plenty " of runway . V1 must be calculated or looked up prior to every takeoff , along with the other performance numbers . They vary based on the weight of the aircraft , the configuration of the aircraft , the altitude of the runway , and the weather ( outside temperature , wind , etc. ) . Sometimes this is done via a computer and sometimes manually via lookup tables or even graphs . For an example of the graphs , and more information about how temperature and altitude affect takeoff performance , see my previous answer here : <URL> There are also times when a pilot may increase or decrease V1 intentionally , even when it is not required . For instance , if there is wet ice on the runway it may not be safe to abort even at a very low speed , so you would be forced to continue no matter what ( note that I 'm NOT saying that this is a good idea ) . Using a lower power setting to extend engine life is another example , and you can read about it in my question here : <URL> For way more information than you probably care about takeoff performance , see my other answer here : <URL> In closing , aircraft performance planning is a rather complicated subject and it is only one of many subjects that we must master in order to safely fly an airplane . This only just scratches the surface of it , and there is a lot more that must be considered ( such as " hey , will we be able to out-climb that tree off the end of the runway ? " ) .
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
VSD Boeing have a <URL> on a VSD ( Vertical Situation Display ) , which is part of the <URL> ( Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System ) which first appeared as an option on 737s about twelve years ago I think . The system will be offered by early 2003 as a customer option on in-production 737s and by retrofit on 737-600 / -700 / -800 / -900 airplanes already in service . Implementation of the system on other Boeing models is under consideration . - Boeing <URL> <URL> I do n't know if Boeing offer licences at acceptable terms to their competitors , or if Honeywell make available , to other aircraft makers , products that incorporate features licensed from those patents . CFIT It is possible that other manufacturers have equivalent options for alerting pilots of potential CFIT ( Controlled Flight Into Terrain ) . TAWS &amp; EGPWS The FAA , for example , requires aircraft be fitted with systems that comply with <URL> requirements . EGPWS systems satisfy that requirement . TAWS requires a terrain awareness display but I dont think it requires something specifically like Boeing 's VSD . Airbus for example , on at least their A350 and A380 models , have a navigation display that incorporates " vertical flightpath data " . I guess they do n't call it a VSD . They also have what I think is a fairly common type of terrain display showing " peaks " ahead of the aircraft . <URL> <URL> - Sources : <URL> and Airbus RNP It may be that some of the issues addressed by the VSD are , for many airports in mountainous terrain , taken care of by <URL> which prescribes the required navigational accuracy of the aircraft 's navigation systems . Generally the aircraft is required to be able to follow an approach path that consists of a sequence of curved three-dimensional paths to the runway that avoids terrain . I imagine this path is pre-programmed into the navigation systems along with the go-around paths . <URL>
First of all , gliders fly slowly . Everything happens more slowly than in other aircraft , and this helps to make flying them less challenging than you might think . Flying them well is a different matter - this requires a lot of skill and good physical health . Historically , the early age limits were introduced in Nazi Germany when the Deutscher Luftstportverband ( <URL> ) and later the <URL> organized groups of adolescents to let them build and fly gliders . Flight training started at the age of 14 , mostly in very simple , <URL> ed gliders like the Zögling or <URL> which were flown in summer and built or repaired in Winter . Since bungee launching is a very labor-intensive process and flights last only a few seconds , this was less about pilot training than keeping the young occupied and under the influence of the Nazi party . <URL> Bungee launch of a Zögling glider ( picture <URL> ) And it worked . Accidents did happen , but were almost never fatal since all operations happened at low speed and altitude . Therefore , these age limits were exported together with the idea of flying unpowered aircraft . Note that in Europe the same health certificate is required for glider flying as for flying GA aircraft . Now to your concerns about the demanding nature of gliding : Glider flying is done from airfields which are suitable for GA aircraft ( or the gliders could not be aerotowed ) or winch launching . 800 meters is about the minimum , and this leaves plenty of space to land a glider . Flight training is done initially only in the direct vicinity of the airfield , and students are supposed to stay within a cone which allows them to reach the airfield at any moment . Flying cross-country comes much later , when the students have made more than a hundred landings and know how to get the plane down in a certain spot . Again , the slow speed helps to make such landings simple if the pilot is prepared . Today , training is initially in two-seaters , so there is an experienced pilot around for the first landings and the first cross-country flights . Aerotowing is also quite simple , and altitude management while in tow is more challenging than keeping the right distance from the towplane . Again , this is done initially in two-seaters , and all the glider pilot has to do is to fly with the same bank angle as and slightly above the towplane . The rope takes care of the rest .
Large aircraft use <URL> which uses only air , compressors and heat exchangers to cool/heat the air . There is no freon involved .
ATC frequencies do n't change very often , but when they do they are planned well in advance . NOTAM 's are issued ahead of time to let people know , and if the airport has ATIS they will include the new frequency on the ATIS . If it is an enroute frequency , the other controllers will simply hand you off to the new frequency , and you do n't even need to know about it ahead of time .
Mass does n't affect the maximum distance , only the maximum endurance . For example , image two identical planes A and B : A weights 50kg less than B. Assuming no wind ( horizontal / vertical ) and speed of best glide , both gliders will land at the exact same spot . The lighter airplane A however will arrive later than B , as the speed of best glide is less than for B . In conclusion you can say , that additional mass only increases cruise speed , but not the travel distance . Glider competitions are most of the time a route you have to fly in the shortest time possible . So that means , if you have a higher speed of best glide , you can fly faster in competitions . The only downside to having a higher weight is , that your liftrate in thermals will be decreased and due to the higher speed it is harder to center the thermals . It is to some extend also possible to shift the Centre of Gravity ( CG ) with the added load . The further it is to the aft limit , the higher your maximum distance is . This is because you will have less down-force from the stabilizer required . ( If the CG is at the front limit , you will need to pull the control stick in order to fly level , therefore you have more drag ) . However I think this is rather a positive side effect and most of the time the water is used for flying faster . Source : I am a glider pilot and currently doing my ATPL training .
The direction of rotation of the propeller introduces an asymmetry which designers try to mitigate by adding more asymmetries . Specifically , a right-turning tractor propeller ( clockwise from the pilot 's viewpoint ) will swirl the propeller wake in the same direction which adds a negative sideslip angle on the vertical tail ( which sticks up into the upper half of the wake only ) . By pointing the axis of rotation of the propeller slightly to the right ( right sidethrust ) , this sideslip angle can be reduced . Other means of correction like an incidence on the vertical tail would not work equally well : Once the engine is throttled back , such an incidence would require to re-trim the aircraft . On multi-engined aircraft a sidethrust can help to reduce rudder input in engine-out cases . Here each wing engine points slightly away from the fuselage so its thrust will pull the aircraft into a helpful sideslip when the opposite engine has failed . The propeller axis can also point slightly down in order to move the thrust line closer to the center of gravity , reducing thrust-related trim changes , and to reduce the <URL> effect ( sideways <URL> ) at high angle of attack . This is called downthrust . One example would be the <URL> - engined version of the <URL> : When the new engine was installed , its lower thrust line required 2 ° more downthrust . This is one of the few topics where the English version of Wikipedia stays schtum ; only the German version has an article on it ( <URL> and <URL> ) .
It 's essentially a manual check for many airlines , performed as part of the pre-flight checks . However , the airline I have worked for recently upgraded from manual checks to RFID tags on each lifejacket ( a sticky tag kind of <URL> ) . The RFID tags can be read from the aisle by a handheld reader . So the person who does the checks simply walks down the aisle with the reader and is able to tell if a seat is missing a jacket and also if the jacket needs to be replaced due to the expiry date fast approaching . In addition to a tag on the actual life jacket there are also security RFID tags across the life jacket holster under the seat . So the scanner is able to tell if the life jacket has been tampered with as the security tag would have been broken . As for the frequency of checks , different regions have different requirements . Usually life jackets are only needed at all if flying over a large body of water . I believe the USA requires a check before any flight which passes over the USA ( as well as water ) . Europe requires less frequent checks .
Some modern airliners have a place where the flight number can be displayed on the cockpit displays . This information can be entered off the dispatch paperwork when setting up the flight plan , and is displayed throughout the flight for easy reference . For example , you can make out " DLH463 " on the screen at the bottom right of <URL> , corresponding to Lufthansa flight 463 . The Boeing 787 <URL> : The two outboard displays are a fixed format that provides primary flight display information combined with an " auxiliary " display that consolidates frequently referenced information for the crew , such as flight number , each pilot 's microphone-selected radio and its frequency , and transponder code . You can see this on <URL> at the top of the leftmost monitor : " FLT - > BAW787 " ( Photos not embedded due to licensing restrictions . )
Paper airplanes create lift just like any other airplane . Do n't let the wing cross section confuse you ; what the air " sees " is a different shape . When a flat plate flows through air at a positive angle of attack , the stagnation point of the flow ( where air splits into an upper and a lower flow path ) sits slightly below the forward edge of the wing . Now the streamline just above the one which hits the stagnation point has to negotiate the sharp corner of the leading edge , which will cause it to separate from the surface . This creates a small separation bubble which to the streamlines further up looks like a round leading edge , and since the rest of the wing has no curvature , the flow will attach again soon . The bigger the angle of attack gets , the farther back the stagnation point will be and the bigger the separation bubble becomes . At some point , which is promoted by leading edge sweep , the separated flow will not reattach , but produce a vortex , like the vortex which provides lift on delta wings . The picture above is from a simulation ; see the <URL> . Note the red color on the forward part of the upper side : This indicates low local pressure , which is needed to make the outer air negotiate the leading edge plus the separation bubble ( see <URL> for an explanation on the molecular level ) . In the separation bubble , low pressure is not accompanied by high flow speed since the separation turbulence has eaten up most of the kinetic energy . The actual nose radius of the paper wing does not matter , and it might even be zero ( like when you fit razor blades to the leading edge ) : The air will create its own airfoil shape by padding with separated air what can not be reached with attached flow . Paper airplanes have a low enough wing loading that their angle of attack is low and the separation does not become too big . All it needs is a center of gravity at the quarter chord of the wing ; that is why you need to fold the piece of paper first . It is interesting to watch a slightly tail-heavy , delta-shaped paper airplane fly : It will gradually reduce speed and will start to rock its wings when it approaches stall . Once one wing is going down , the sudden increase in its local AoA will increase lift so much that the rolling motion reverses , without noticeable yawing . The delta-shaped flat plate has effective roll damping right into the stall . The lack of yaw is mostly due to the high yaw inertia , but indicates also that drag buildup is moderate at best . Of course , after a few periods of rocking the nose will drop and it will pick up speed like any well-behaved airplane .
The three main reasons are : Prevent theft of headphones due to incompatibility with home systems Redundancy , if one connector breaks , the other will still provide audio Before the 3.5 mm jack was used , a pneumatic system was in use , which required two connectors . This question has been asked on different websites already , but here is a detailed explanation that sums it up nicely : There are a couple main reasons : First , the airlines were trying to prevent theft of headphones . The two-pronged plugs have been around on airplanes since way before the airlines started charging for headsets . Back then , headphones were not usually easily carried around as the portable earbud style had not become popular yet . By using a two-pronged setup that is not used in most other audio systems , the motivation for passengers to steal the headsets went down immensely . The second reason is redundancy . When a standard stereo headphone jack with three internal connections ( right , left , and ground ) breaks , you will often lose audio in both the left and right channels . However , with the two-pronged design , if one of the jacks breaks then there will still be audio going through the other channel . While this is annoying for the user , it is an easy way for the airline to defer maintenance on that individual seat 's audio system until both the left and right channel are non-functional . The two-prong design is a relic of the past , before headphones were bundled with so many of the mobile devices we now buy . Planes with updated inflight entertainment ( IFE ) systems usually have the standard stereo jack as most passengers prefer using their own headsets now . Slowly these old connectors will be completely phased out . Another less obvious ( and probably less likely , but interesting nonetheless ) reason , though , is based on airline complacency . Airlines , especially US based airlines , are notoriously slow in changing their tactics . Back before the 3.5 mm jack became the standard for headphone audio connections for IFEs , airplanes used a pneumatic headphone design . These headphones were similar to stethoscopes where hollow tubes would be plugged into the armrest which had actual soundwaves coming out ( instead of analog electrical signals ) . These systems were much more reliable than the standard electrical system and the headsets themselves were very cheap to replace . Since the pneumatic system required two separate plugs for the left and right channel ( since you can not mix physical sound waves into a single hole ) , all armrests were designed with two holes for audio . Airlines were likely so used to having two jacks for audio that they continued with the same design when they switched to electrical audio signals . ( Source : <URL> - Author : Raj Misra )
In an aircraft the brake pedals control the respective side brakes . This allows for the pilot to turn the aircraft not only with the pivoting nose wheel ( if it has one ) but also with the brakes . This allows for a very tight turning radius . <URL> ( <URL> ) If each pedals controls different sets of wheels eg the left wheels and the right wheels of the main gear , is that not a safety flaw rather than measure given that at any point in time , It is by design to allow for the tight turning . Some smaller aircraft also do not have a steerable nose wheel so differential braking is the only option . it is impossible for the pilot to apply an equal amount of pressure to the brakes ? Pushing equally on each toe pedal will result in equal brake operation . Is n't ABS enough to the point that only one pedal is enough . The pedals allow for brake steering which a single pedal would prevent . <URL> but that simply prevents the tires from skidding . Finally do both captain and pilot step on the brakes at landing . IF not then why have two pedals ? Im not sure , when I fly with an instructor or co-pilot in smaller planes only one person operates the brakes .
end question
start question
Are the guns on a fighter jet fixed or can they be aimed ?
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
Your reading of AC90-108 is correct . As long as the RNAV equipment is operated and installed in accordance with TSO-C129 / - C145 / - C146 it can be used as a " suitable RNAV system . " ( ref : AC90-108 , para . 6 a. ) . Also , see the AIM , 1-2-3 b. " Types of RNAV Systems that Qualify as a Suitable RNAV System . " Lastly , as far as the requirement for " Dual VOR Receivers " for IZKIP , since you are using a " suitable " ( and legal ) alternative method by using the GPS database fix location , no additional restriction should apply . Also , it is my understanding that when the subject stepdown fix ( identified by a VOR radial ) is inside the FAF , as is the case with IZKIP , the dual VOR requirement is for the purpose of presetting the missed approach holding fix . Again , not an issue if you are using a " suitable RNAV " system for identifying the fixes .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
Not a local thing at all ! In Australia , it is extremely common to hear , especially for aircraft on departure . Listening to LiveATC , particularly Sydney International Approach/Departure ( YSSY ) you will quite often hear ATC give an aircraft permission to exceed 250KIAS below 10,000 ft. Qantas 123 : Approach , QFA123 , with you passing 2,300 , climbing 5,000 . . Sydney Approach : QFA123 , Identified , Climb FL240 , cancel speed restrictions below 10,000 . . There are a number of reasons this is used . The first , I have already hinted to in the example radio call above . Departures : It is extremely common to hear ATC cancel speed restrictions on departing aircraft . This gives better separation for aircraft departing in the same direction . For example , one of the busiest sectors in the world is Sydney - Melbourne Australia . The common SID 's out of Sydney for Melbourne are the DEENA4 WOL transition and the WOL1 Departure , depending on operational runway . As a large amount of aircraft use these departures , the further the lead aircraft can get on the SID prior to the trailing aircraft becoming airborne , the better . Arrivals : Again , using Sydney , they receive a large amount of Regional Turbo-Prop traffic ( Dash 8-Q300 / Q400 , Saab 340B , BE350 ) . You will commonly hear Approach cancel speed restrictions on these aircraft on decent so they can give them more space on the approach . They land reasonably slower than a B747/A380 , so the more room , the better . Another reason is simple . These guys are operating commercial operations , hence faster is better , especially on descent . So if there is no or low traffic in the TMA , ATC will commonly release the speed restriction on aircraft to accommodate the company operations .
Absolutely . The jet engines used in airliners are quite powerful and can easily <URL> . Other ( large ) airliners , not so much . It depends on the aircraft 's size , weight and distance from the engine actually . There are records of a <URL> ; as the thrust of an A380 engine is quite higher than that of the Lancer , the damage would be worse . The minimum safe distance between the aircraft varies depending on the aircraft and engine type . For example , according to the Australian <URL> : An aircraft engine shall not be started or operated : ... ( b ) within 8 metres ( 25 ft ) of other aircraft ; ... turbine engines , in addition , shall not be operated within the appropriate distance specified below of any other aircraft , fuelling equipment or exposed public areas which lie to the rear of and within a 15 degree arc either side of the exhaust outlet axis of that engine : <URL> Minimum distance between aircraft for operation of engines ; image from <URL>
If the wind shear ( sometimes called wind gradient , which in my opinion is the better term ) encountered in that part of the cyclone the aircraft is penetrating is less than what the aircraft can handle , then , yes , an aircraft can safely fly into a cyclone . What the aircraft can handle varies greatly depending on the speed at which it is being flown . Large aircraft have a recommended turbulence penetration speed , both in terms of knots and mach . In the absence of such a recommendation , V speeds that are relevant are Va , Vb , and Vo . <URL> is a good V speed terminology reference . I do not know what typical wind gradient values within a cyclone are or what their distribution within the cyclonic area is . However , I would be surprised if they were significantly greater than gradients within tropical thunderstorms , and aircraft do penetrate such . In season there 's a roughly north-south line of thunderstorms that regularly develops between Sumatra and Sri Lanka with tops greater than 50,000 feet . Lacking the fuel to go around the line , we would regularly go through it using radar to avoid the worst . However , with those old radars ( back in the 1990s in 747s ) , it was not uncommon for us to wind up in a cell .
<URL> ( <URL> ; arrows and CG icon are my additions ) P-47 side drawing . The thrust has a bigger moment arm around the tires contact points compared to the weight . It wo n't nose over below a certain RPM ( it will be specified in the training ) . Below that RPM : The weight will counter the thrust The <URL> will produce downward force on the horizontal stabilizer Applied brakes <URL> the rotation of the wheels ( airframe rotating around wheels ) From a <URL> for the comparable big-engined <URL> , the narrator says : You ca n't gun this engine to full takeoff RPM and manifold pressure while holding the plane with the brakes , if you exceed 2,000 RPM the tail will lift and you risk nosing over . Answer is yes it can happen . Note : for comparison , the <URL> is 2,700 for the Hellcat .
Spoofing GPS means broadcasting a false GPS signal - This is harder than jamming GPS which can be done relatively easily by broadcasting a strong random signal at the relevent carrier frequencies . GPS receivers use GPS ephemeris tables which tell them where exactly they should expect each satellite to be . So the false GPS signal has to look enough like a real GPS signal that the receiver will accept it and use it 's transmitted data in it 's calculations . Of course , if , for example , the expansionist president of a country with advanced avionics capability decided to supply sophisticated equipment and the associated personnel to a separatist group in a neighbouring country , it might be possible for them to bring about this kind of result . There have been <URL> of this kind of spoofing actually happening , so it appears to be possible . The U of Texas students built a GPS spoofing device for about $ 3,000 . A pair of students , the " attackers , " then sat aboard the upper deck of the White Rose , where their GPS spoofer emitted a counterfeit signal slightly stronger than the real GPS signal . This was a yacht at sea , presumably out of sight of land on a featureless ocean . It may be more difficult to achieve this with an airliner , which have a variety of navigational instruments , including radio navigation beacon receivers . Inconsistent indications may alert the pilot to a problem . Non-GPS navigational instruments/systems that may be found in an aircraft include : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
You can not " switch off " a stage of a turbine engine . As seen <URL> jet engines are a single block mechanically locked together : all the stages ( compressor AND turbine ) connected to the same shaft . If the shaft turns , all connected stages turn with it . You can have designs with multiple shafts , but this increases the complexity ( design and maintenance ) heavily . Even if we assume for a moment that you could have 1 shaft per stage , stopping one of these would be generally a bad idea . For acoustic reasons the number of blades on the stationary part of the stage and those on the rotary part must be prime to each other ( example : 37 blades on the stationary side and 39 on the rotary one ) ; this means that when the rotary part stops you can not align all the blades with the stationary ones , creating drag and losses within the engine , thus reducing the efficiency . How would efficiency of a Jet Engine change , if we assume for a second that its a possibility , to stop a few stages ( turn them into free instead of locked ) ? You would still decrease the efficiency : compressor stages are the ones actually <URL> ( you would then produce less thrust * ) and the turbine stages are the ones extracting energy from the exahust . * : you could even risk having the flame going upstream if you stop too many compressor stages and not having enough pressure at the combustion chamber inlet .
My short answer : Stability is reduced by shifting the center of gravity aft . Shifting it past the neutral point makes the airplane unstable , so movements away from the trimmed state are accelerated . This increases maneuverability . Flight computers are multiple redundant , if one dies the others take over . Slow unstable airplanes can be flown by a human pilot , but not fast unstable airplanes . For the long answer , let me first clarify terms : Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to it 's old state after being disturbed . Take a pendulum : If you pull it to one side , it will return to the middle . Eventually . Dynamic stability is the tendency of an oscillating system for the oscillations to die down over time . Take the same pendulum : It will swing from side to side , and friction will ensure this happens with ever smaller amplitude . Now we need to add dimensions , all three of them : Pitch , roll and yaw . An airplane can be stable in one dimension and unstable in a different one . I understand your question such that you ask about the static pitch stability ( or longitudinal stability ) of fighter aircraft . The Wright Flyer was longitudinally unstable ( see <URL> for more ) . Once aircraft designers learned that aircraft can be made to fly stable , and learned that this is of immense benefit in pilot training , static stability became a requirement for new aircraft . When war in Europe broke out , the British forces were equipped with a superb <URL> , but it was so stable that it took effort and time to convince it to change course . They were shot down in droves . From now on , low stability was a prime requirement for fighters and aerobatic aircraft . Static stability is proportional to the control forces ( more precisely : To the hinge moment of the respective control surface ) , so reducing stability gave pilots more response for the same effort . Longitudinal static stability is measured as the relative distance between neutral point ( NP ) and the center of gravity ( CG ) . See <URL> for more . Longitudinal static stability is achieved by placing the CG ahead of the NP . Shifting the CG back gives you a more responsive airplane , but also one which is more easily disturbed by gusts . This is the design technique you asked about . Pretty simple , right ? Once you shift the CG aft of the NP , stability is lost and the airplane will increase deviations from the trimmed state . This can be helpful if you want large angle changes , and quickly . An unstable aircraft only needs a small kick and will do the rest of the maneuver all by itself . This is how it helps in maneuverability . But it is even more helpful to reduce the inertias , especially around the roll axis , for a faster response . That is why all combat aircraft have their engines close to the center . Of course , negative stability is not acceptable when you need to take your hands off the stick to get a map out or to pee on a long flight . So without computer control , the limit was a CG position near , but not aft of the NP . With supersonic aircraft , things got more complicated . Now the aircraft operates in two flight regimes , one where lift acts at the quarter chord of the wing and one where it acts at mid-chord . Aircraft with low static stability become very stable in supersonic flight , and the tail surface has to create a high down-force so that the sum of all lift stays where the CG is . Creating lift always incurs a drag penalty , and in supersonic flight it has to be payed twice : One for the excess lift on the wing ( which is needed to compensate for the tail 's down-force ) and one for the down-force on the tail . Using a flight control computer offers the possibility to allow the pilot to let go of the stick without the aircraft going off course . Now the stick does not command elevator deflection , but pitch rate , and the CG can be moved back from maybe 12 % of MAC ( mean aerodynamic chord ) to -2 % . If you compare the wing areas of stable and unstable jets ( Jaguar and Mirage F-1 are prime examples ) , you will see how much is achieved just by going back with the CG by a few percent of wing chord . Both configurations have the same airfield and combat performance ! Can a human still fly such an aircraft ? In glider competitions , the more daring pilots fly with relaxed static stability and have no problem to keep the aircraft under control . Even the Wright brothers could handle their unstable airplane , and handling improved when they moved the CG further back ( If you want to know why , please post a new question . This answer is getting too long already ! ) . However , the speed of an aircraft 's pitch response is proportional to flight speed ( and inverse to the pitch moment of inertia ) , so faster aircraft are harder to control . You can compare dynamic pressure with the stiffness of a spring : A stiffer spring moves the eigenfrequency of a spring-mass system up , and the same is true for the eigenvalues of the <URL> of an aircraft . Given that the reaction time of a good pilot is a
Any instruments always show only three states : Down and locked ( green ) Up/stowed ( extinguished ) Anywhere in between ( red ) If you want to simulate it , remember that while the pilot can only command one of the two end states , the transition is a continuous process and you need to represent exact position of the gear in each frame of the simulation . So you need a value that will smoothly transition between 0 ( stowed ) and 1 ( down and locked ) . Any value in between will indicate red on the instrument , but will correspond to different state of the gear animation . The exact steps during gear extension ( and in reverse for raising ) differ by aircraft , but generally the animation will have three parts that you will map to suitable ranges of the gear state value : opening the gear door , lowering the gear and closing the main gear door . The last step actually complicates issues a bit , because the gear is already down and locked when the main gear door close and in case you do gravity extension the main gear door remain open . So the suggested mapping is actually something like : opening the gear door 0.0 to 0.3 lowering the gear 0.4 to 1.0 closing the main gear door 1.1 to 1.4 When you extend the gear normally , the value will transition up to 1.4 ( and show green past 1.0 ) , when you extend the gear via alternate mechanism ( gravity drop ) , it will only transition to 1.0 . If you want to simulate alternate extension , of course . Tweak the values to make the animation look appropriate . The relative speed differs by aircraft . Some aircraft also do n't have gear door ( e.g. 737 only has one panel that is attached to the strut on main wheels ; it still does have nose gear door , so the process will be slightly different for each leg ) . Which leads me to note , that if you want to simulate failures , you definitely need separate value for each leg , because some failures , like <URL> , only affect one gear . Also in reality the legs take slightly different time to extend , so you can add some variability to the transition time if you wish .
Yes . Human beings can get sucked into jet engines if they are close enough - this has happened multiple times in a number of aircraft ranging from <URL> to <URL> . However , it happens only in rare cases - usually in case of miscommunication or a mistake , when <URL> . The following image shows the safety hazard area for aircraft engines . <URL> A warning poster , available from Boeing , reminds ramp and maintenance workers about the dangers of engine ingestion ; image from <URL> In addition , the engines also have hazard-area warning decals on the nacelles to warn the ground personnel of the dangers . <URL> Warning signs on engines ; image from <URL> . As for the maximum weight that can be ingested , it will vary with the engines , though they have been known to ingest items from <URL> to <URL> , and of course people .
An afterburner is a secondary combustion system which burns additional fuel downstream of the combustion chamber , to further increase thrust at the expense of much higher fuel consumption . This is the Pratt &amp; Whitney F100 afterburning turbofan , variants of which power the USAF 's 4th-generation fleet of F-15s and F-16s : <URL> The final spoke-looking thing just beyond the turbine fins , plus all the space between the turbine core and the exhaust nozzle , is the afterburner . In this area , fuel is sprayed directly into the exhaust stream from the turbine core , where the heat from the air leaving the core is enough to ignite it . This additional pressure adds to the thrust produced by the turbine . As I said , though , the tradeoff is increased fuel consumption , sometimes usually dramatically so . The F-16 at full military power and low altitudes burns about 8000 pounds of fuel an hour , which with a full droptank configuration gives it about 2 hours ' flight time . Cruising at higher altitudes , that flight time can be further extended as both the higher altitude and the lower throttle setting ( about 80 % ) reduce fuel flow rate by up to 40 % versus low-altitude flight . In full afterburner at low altitudes , the F-16 can burn in excess of 64,000 pounds an hour . At full throttle , a U.S.-variant F-16 with maximum external fuel stores has about 20 minutes until it 's on emergency reserves ( which would only last an extra minute or so at full afterburner ) . The speed gain is minimal ; the F-16 cruises at between 450-550 knots , while full afterburner only increases that to about 700-800 knots with a typical underwing loadout . So , burning 8 times the fuel , you get around a 50 % speed boost .
The <URL> used two separate PT-6B to drive a single pusher propeller through a common gearbox . <URL> LeraFan 2100 in flight ( picture <URL> ) If you want to know why its official first flight date is December 32 , 1980 , read <URL> . <URL> LearFan 2100 engine arrangement ( picture <URL> ) This engine arrangement was the LearFan 's eventual undoing when the FAA denied it a proper certification because of concerns that the single gearbox constituted a single point of failure .
The idea that missiles will be all a fighter aircraft needs was prevalent in the late Fifties . The <URL> Phantom II carried initially only missiles , but at the start of the Vietnam war this turned out to be inadequate . The long-range missiles back then were rather unreliable , and in a real conflict things turn out always different than anticipated . As <URL> said , the plan is the first casualty of war . F-4s frequently found themselves in close-combat situations for which they were inadequately prepared . Even today , a gun gives the pilot a lot more options , and if the situation is unclear , close-up visual inspection before shooting is still vital to avoid <URL> . From the F-4C on , F-4s were equipped with a gun .
Airbus aircraft have 3 hydraulic systems ( Green , Blue , Yellow ) . Green is pressurized by left engine , Yellow by right engine , and each one can be pressurized by the other using the PTU . In addition the Yellow circuit has an electric pump . The Blue circuit is a backup pressurized on demand by several means ( electric pump and RAT ) . Each circuit powers different aircraft components : <URL> Source : <URL> The choice of which engine ( s ) to use is based on the need to have pressure : For brakes For nose wheel steering system . Normal brakes and nose wheel steering are pressurized by the Green system . The brake accumulator must be pressurized , this can be done by running the an electric pump without starting an engine . . Engines are numbered 1 for left , 2 for right on twin-engined aircraft and from left to right ( 1/2 and then 3/4 ) for four-engined aircraft . From <URL> : Which Engine to Use ? A320 Family : ENG 1 A330 : ENG 1 A340 : Outer engines ( ENG 1 + 4 ) Why ? A320 Family : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) YELLOW HYD pressurized via ELEC PUMP PTU is not needed A330 : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN + BLUE HYD HYD BLUE ensures ACCU PRESS ELEC PUMP are not needed A340 ( outer engines when possible -- exception would be a narrow taxiway and FOD risk ) : ENG 1 + 4 pressurize GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) Check ACCU PRESS normal before ENG start ELEC PUMP are not needed
It 's a small door leading to a compartment which contains a handle on a reeled lanyard . When fully extended , the handle and lanyard activate the pyrotechnic charges which jettison the canopy or other enclosure over the flight crew stations , facilitating rescue . The arrow may also just point towards the external canopy latch in order to expedite cockpit access and rescue .
As of currently , the answer to this question is in principle no for commercial aircraft , at least not remotely . There are two parts to this : From a system perspective : Aircraft systems could probably be ' hacked ' - assuming you could for instance screw up the flight computer by changing the chips in the belly - but there is no way you could really pull this off without the pilots noticing the course being way off from the compass for instance , so they 'd figure out and shut it off . Many systems are not connected in a way that allows them to be cause damage to others . Systems are also pretty dedicated - if it 's supposed to fly the plane , that 's what it does , if it 's supposed to navigate , that 's what it does . Systems on aircraft generally a have limited , if any , connection to the outside world . There are a few systems that have the ability to connect to the ground , and this is generally limited to simple text messages . Most of the electronics on the 777 are from the type 's introduction in 1994 . A decent analogy I think is trying to hack an early cell phone remotely . And from a practical standpoint : Aircraft are generally very stiff when it comes to changes - they are often approved in a certain configuration , and that then sticks , so there 's little need to change stuff , and hence it 's not possible . This applies to the autopilot and flight controls - once it 's there , it stays there . As a few people have pointed out , these systems are proprietary and closed source , making it difficult to program them if you 're an outsider , but in theory it might be possible . The fact that no aircraft , even the computer-intensive Airbus , have really been hacked to any extent , the notion that the entire aircraft would be taken over and flown somewhere is impossible . As for original question <URL> : " The FAA has determined that the hacking technique described during a recent computer security conference does not pose a flight safety concern because it does not work on certified flight hardware , " he said . " The described technique can not engage or control the aircraft 's autopilot system using the FMS or prevent a pilot from overriding the autopilot , " said Dorr . " Therefore , a hacker can not obtain ' full control of an aircraft , ' as the technology consultant has claimed , " said Dorr . On a similar accord , I think I heard a story about a Bombardier Dash 8 that got a computer virus once , but I think it never got beyond the navigation system , the most processing intensive part . Unfortunately , I ca n't find a source for this .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
end question
start question
Would the flyby in this video be illegal under 91.119 ( a ) ?
This depends how you look at it but there are definitely some FARs this guy is in breach of . First one that comes to mine is 91.119 on minimum altitudes , it 's pretty straightforward ( assuming this is an area other than congested area ) Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . He is pretty clearly within 500 ft of that person ... You can see that there is a case for sparsely populated areas but I would argue that if there is a backyard party going on this is not a sparsely populated area . Then as mentioned there is the catch all in .13 § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . I 'd say that 's reckless but of course that 's up for debate . Then again it 's impossible to say where this happened so we ca n't know what type of airspace this is in and if there were possible issues there . I would go on to say that at an altitude that low I would turn on my landing light to increase awareness and enable me to see the ground better . If you really want to push it you could even go as far as saying that maneuver is aerobatic flight since it 's an abnormal attitude ( at the altitude it 's being performed ) and most likely not seen in normal flight . For the record that attitude looks to be about around 30 degrees which would be a standard steep turn ( something I would never attempt that close to the ground ) . For the purposes of this section , aerobatic flight means an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . If you think it fits under this definition the pilot is also in breach of 91.303 No person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight -- ( b ) Over an open air assembly of persons ; ( e ) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; I would consider a backyard party ( as described in the video description ) as an open air assembly of persons and he is clearly below 1500 ft. The Counter Point : While the above points make a pretty solid case for the FAR 's broken in the video , in theory if the maneuver is pre agreed upon , planned out , and executed as planned it may not be considered reckless . In the end of the day as a pilot you live at the mercy of the FAA and their decisions . In this case I would be most worried about that guy running into the propellor . I 'm sure things like this happen more often than not .
It 's not easy to find research on small ducted fans . I did come across <URL> from 2009 , which does show some relevant results - at low propeller speeds . Duct design The document describes three duct designs , one with a variable bypass inlet and two simpler ones . The simplest one is made from PVC tuning and a foam inlet lip : <URL> <URL> Geometric information is given as : Inner diameter = 14.5 " Duct Chord = 4 " Duct Length ( C/D ) = 0.28 Maximum Thrust One of the results of the project is that a ducted propeller delivers more thrust than an un-ducted one . Here is one of the results , listing $ C_T $ as a function of tip Mach numbers - which are really low and therefore hard to generalise into practical rotor and fan configurations . <URL> Tip Clearance Best results were obtained with a propeller with square tips with the smallest gap between propeller and duct that could be achieved . This was a 3-blade propeller , but the research project was severely limited by the small motor used , and therefore low maximum torque that could be exerted on the propellers .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
If you know the pressure coefficient of the flow , the rest is easy . The equation for the pressure coefficient $ c_p $ is : $ $ c_p = \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } = 1 - \ left ( \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } \ right ) ^ 2 $ $ $ q _ { \ infty } $ is the dynamic pressure and contains air density $ \ rho $ and the flight speed $ v _ { \ infty } $ : $ $ q _ { \ infty } = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v _ { \ infty } ^ 2 $ $ The equation for the local speed , relative to flight speed , is : $ $ \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } = \ sqrt { 1 - \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } } = \ sqrt { 1 - c_p } $ $ Now you need to know the pressure coefficient . At Mach 0.85 the local Mach number of the 747 wing , which has a wing sweep of 37.5 ° , is 0.674 . Since I do not have the airfoil of the 747-400 , I used one from the same family ( BACJ ) , found <URL> . If you are interested , many more can be found in Michael Selig 's <URL> . The plot is from a <URL> calculation of the 2D flow around BACJ at Mach 0.8 , so it needs to be taken with a grain of salt . Note that it shows a stagnation point , and , therefore , Mach = 0 at the leading edge . The leading edge of the 747 wing is swept by 45 ° , so it will only slow the orthogonal speed component to zero . Consequently , the 747 wing has a stagnation line where the lowest speed will still be Mach 0.6 . On the suction side , the airfoil reaches Mach = 1.2 quickly and even Mach 1.3 near the trailing edge . Modern , so called <URL> s can tolerate mildly supersonic speeds on their suction side , and the Boeing 747-400 makes use of them . However , since the wing sweep reduces Mach effects , the top speed will be Mach 1.2 or slightly lower , and the TSFOIL calculation shown here is not exactly correct for flight at Mach 0.85 , but gives a general idea what happens on the wing . To answer the many questions you posted directly : The shape of the airfoil is immensely important . Thicker airfoils need to displace more air , and higher flow speeds are created on both sides . Camber will increase the pressure ( and speed ) difference between both sides . Changing the angle of attack will add a roughly triangular difference , which is highest at the leading edge , to the difference between both sides . Lower side pressure is increased slightly , and upper side suction goes up by a lot at the nose . Good wing designs have a triangular lift distribution over wing span , with the highest lift at the root . Since the displacement effect of the fuselage is added to the flow effects , the highest speeds will be encountered at the wing root . Just look at the pretty pictures ...
This question appears to have an implicit assumption : that the parking brake would provide more deceleration than is available from normal braking . This is not generally the case . A much greater worry for pilots than insufficient braking is actually excessive braking - to the point that the wheel locks up and skids . A skidding tire provides much less braking than a rolling one , and also quickly acquires a flat spot . Even on dry pavement , maximum braking would require an anti-skid system to remain effective ; consider <URL> and <URL> , each of which blew out their tires when their anti-skid systems failed . Note also that in small planes without complex braking systems , the parking brake merely maintains the pressure that is in the brake lines at the time it 's applied . The parking brake would have no effect if the pilot were not already on the brakes , and would not be able to add any additional braking than the pilot could otherwise apply .
It took me a little bit to figure out the underlying reason for asking this question and it has to do with logging flight time . For example , in a single pilot operation with an autopilot , the second pilot is not required and therefore can not log the flight time at all even though their company may want them there . The FARs do n't allow the second pilot to log the time . The regulation that governs logging of flight time is 61.51 . 61.51 ( h ) Logging training time . ( 1 ) A person may log training time when that person receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft , flight simulator , or flight training device . ( 2 ) The training time must be logged in a logbook and must : ( i ) Be endorsed in a legible manner by the authorized instructor ; and ( ii ) Include a description of the training given , the length of the training lesson , and the authorized instructor 's signature , certificate number , and certificate expiration date . So the question becomes what training was given during the revenue Part 135 flight and were you an authorized instructor ? The term Authorized Instructor is only found in Part 61 . 61.1 . Authorized instructor means -- ( i ) A person who holds a ground instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.217 , when conducting ground training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her ground instructor certificate ; ( ii ) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter and is in compliance with § 61.197 , when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with the privileges and limitations of his or her flight instructor certificate ; or ( iii ) A person authorized by the Administrator to provide ground training or flight training under part 61 , 121 , 135 , or 142 of this chapter when conducting ground training or flight training in accordance with that authority . Since it is a Part 135 revenue flight I would believe the CFI would have to comply with section 135.338 and 135.340 . 135.340 ( a ) No certificate holder may use a person nor may any person serve as a flight instructor unless -- ( 1 ) That person has satisfactorily completed initial or transition flight instructor training ; and ( 2 ) Within the preceding 24 calendar months , that person satisfactorily conducts instruction under the observation of an FAA inspector , an operator check airman , or an aircrew designated examiner employed by the operator . If the authorized instructor has complied with 135.338 and 135.340 they are also bound to the training program for the 135 company . If that training stipulates you can give dual given during revenue flights than you are more than welcome to do so . If there is no provision in the training program to provide instruction during revenue flight then it should not be done . The best option is to request a legal interpretation on the validity of what you are wanting to do .
So there 's a lot going on in your question to address . First , and most importantly , the info you linked is for ATC , not pilots . you wo n't get any usable info of how to fly IFR in this airspace . You wo n't need to know any of this to fly IFR . You wo n't need any of this to fly VFR either , for what it 's worth . When you fly IFR you file a flight plan that includes your route , destination , and nav points , which are those funny named things like WAVEY in the chart you linked . This is done before you even step in to the plane . Generally a day ahead or early in the morning of your flight , but you can file it right before . a lot of pilots ( this is for non-commercial ) will take off VFR and then " pick up " their filed flight plan after they are en route . this means you do n't have to wait for an IFR release on departure . You just take off , fly in the general direction you are headed , and then ATC will direct you via nav points the rest of the way ( or if you 're lucky tell you to proceed " as filed " , which means no changes to your original plan ) . For commercial they do n't usually have to wait for the release because they are scheduled flights . Thats kind of a different world . I bring up how it happens for non-commercial because you will do a LOT of that kind of flying before you have to be worried about how United and Delta get off the ground . an IFR approach plate for pilots is still confusing , but there is n't nearly as much going on as what you have linked . Approaches are very very specific for the runway , type of approach ( look up types of instrument approaches ) , and a number of other factors . specific to the point of each has a special thing you do if you ca n't land for any reason and have to " go missed " . This is a huge portion of the IFR training , and nobody can really be self taught this or know how to do it right away . IFR is the hardest rating for a reason . Do n't get too cocky about being able to talk to ATC while VFR . Thousands of experienced pilots a year go through comms training because it 's hard . In vatsim is one thing , but the real world of radio is one of the most stressful and elusive parts of the flight . get something wrong and you can lose your license or your life . If you want to get started with reading charts go to sportys.com and buy their VFR sectional training chart . It 's 3 dollars and gets you a manageable section of a navigational chart to learn how to plan and plot and read an aeronautical chart . Theres a lot going on there , you have true longitude and magnetic longitude lines , VORs , airport info , waypoints , obstructions , ground levels , airspace , MOAs . Do n't think of VFR as " the easy flying " .
This explanation is for a subsonic aircraft . If air flow is disturbed at the engine inlet , like it happens if the engine angle of attack is too high ( or the crab angle too high like in <URL> ) or air is disturbed by another mean like the wake of a preceding aircraft , a compressor stall can occur . The flow within the fan and compressor stages is no more homogeneous , and different mass flows exist in the compressor . These disparities are increased until the flow stops in low mass flow regions , the reason is : Compressor stages are made of blades and vanes delimiting small passages between them . If one passage is blocked by slow air , upstream air tries to use the next one . The next passage is reached under a higher angle of attack , so this tends to stall this passage too . <URL> This effect propagates rapidly and is called a rotating stall . This has been explained here : <URL> Effects Unsteady airflow As passages are blocked by detached air over stalled airfoils , pressure increases in the passages and upstream . Detached airflow being very turbulent with changing velocity ( including negative values ) , blade/vane vibrations can start . Vibrations are not good for an engine , buffeting can break a metal part if resonance occurs . Pressure decrease The compressor being now less efficient , pressure downstream the compressor decreases in addition of being variable . The pressure variation intensity is somehow limited by the plenum chamber effect of the compressor diffuser for an axial compressor and diffuser stator after the impeller for a centrifugal compressor . <URL> Location of the diffuser , <URL> Depending on whether a new balance can be found or not , combustion may continue while the rotating stall occurs . In that case it 'll be at reduced power due to the less efficient compressor , and a lower fuel flow is required . It may be necessary to shutdown the engine and restart it to get out of the compressor stall . Overheating If fuel flow is not reduced in a steady rotating stall , the mixture becomes too rich , combustion temperature increases , overheating occurs in the combustion chamber and downstream in the turbine . As the materials used for the combustion chamber and the turbine are already at their highest sustainable temperature , any increase can damage them . This can happen if the fuel control unit ( FCU ) does n't limit fuel flow correctly and attempts to maintain previous thrust / fuel flow . It is suspected this was the cause of <URL> . Surge The compressor diffuser ( or plenum in a centrifugal compressor ) is upstream of the combustion chamber . The latter is a very high pressure region at hot temperature . If the diffuser pressure is too low compared to turbine inlet pressure , hot gas can start flowing back into the diffuser and the compressor . This is a <URL> . The surge creates a loud bang and the pressure wave can damage the fan and the engine inlet . The surge can be associated with flames getting out of the engine by the exhaust pipe , or the engine inlet . There is also an asymmetrical additional thrust leading to a yaw force . Compressor elements are not designed to sustain hot gas from the combustion chamber , they may be damaged if exposition is repeated . Again the engine may recover itself from the surge , if there is no damage . The cycle can repeat but at some point damages are inevitable . Loss of control If the surge is important and the aircraft is in a critical phase ( e.g. rotating to take off ) , the yaw effect can lead to a loss of control . The yaw effect was actually interpreted as a collision with another aircraft on the runway in this <URL> .
That buzzing sound is from the tips of the fan blades breaking the sound barrier . When you 're sitting farther back in the airplane , that sound is overpowered by the sound of the exhaust , which is the roaring part of a jet engine 's sound . So in general , sit forward of the wing , you 'll hear the fan sound ( the buzz ) , sit aft of the wing and you 'll hear the exhaust sound ( roar ) . It 'll vary from airplane to airplane of course , and when thrust is reduced and the fan speed slows , the buzz will subside .
You are right , it helps to de-sweep the outer wing . However , as long as wings are made of aluminum , the manufacturing effort is significantly higher . The basic problem is the needed two-dimensional bending of the skin panels . Using a straight spar line and a straight leading edge requires bending only in one dimension , but when sweep changes , the skin panels would need to stretch in some corners while being bent . This requires much more expensive tooling , or a break in the structure which increases structural mass . Even <URL> I know of has a straight leading edge , even though the aircraft would have benefited from de-sweeping . Both the <URL> and the <URL> , which were designed by the same people before , had reduced sweep on the outer wing , and for good reason . When the multinational project started and they talked to the BAe engineers , the British side insisted on a straight leading edge for easier manufacture , ignorant of the fact that using composites made their point moot . Yes , that was practically the same company that had built the Victor before . Another disadvantage is the fact that any sweep change will convert bending moment into torsion , so de-sweeping the outer wing will introduce an uptwisting torsion which can excite wing flutter . If the wing 's aspect ratio is low , this is manageable , but with higher aspect ratios the wing needs to be stiffened . To answer your question directly : In the majority of cases it is aerodynamically advantageous to vary sweep with relative thickness , but it is not structurally and economically efficient . In the delta wings of combat aircraft which need to operate over a wide range of angles of attack , de-sweeping the outer wing produces indeed the best wing planform , even when economics is included .
A helicopter will achieve its best climb rate at a moderate forward speed . Climbing in a spiral helps to have forward speed in what is essentially a vertical climb . In a hover all the airflow which is available for lift creation must be generated by the rotation of the main rotor . This means that a small amount of air must be accelerated by a lot . If the helicopter adds forward speed , it can achieve a higher mass flow through the rotor , and now less acceleration is needed to achieve the same lift . This improves the efficiency of lift creation . If the helicopter goes faster than its speed for maximum rate of climb , aerodynamic drag grows too high and reduces efficiency again . The difference can be dramatic : Below is a plot of the speed versus altitude of a generic helicopter and turboprop plane in comparison to the V-22 tilt rotor . Remember that the available power is roughly proportional to air density , and you can start to see how much more power is available for climbing when the helicopter flies with a moderate forward speed . <URL> Flight envelopes of a generic helicopter , a turboprop plane and the V-22 tiltrotor ( picture <URL> ) . Thanks to @mins for inspiring me to expand the answer a little .
<URL> covers all the regs pretty well . But in short the key point on class G ( uncontrolled ) is Although ATC has no authority or responsibility to control air traffic , pilots should remember there are visual flight rules ( VFR ) minimums which apply to Class G airspace . Class G airspace also holds no specific entry requirements ( aside from VFR minimums ) , no specific aircraft equipment ( no radio , no transponder etc ) and no minimum pilot certificate requirement ( but you still need a license ( one of a few varieties ) you just do n't need anything in addition like the instrument rating requirements for class A ) . On the contrary glass G airspace ( uncontrolled ) is not a free for all and you are not free to do as you please in some regards . While ATC has no reach into Class G the FAA does and you are still bound by the regulations the FAA puts forth that apply to class G airspace . Likewise the definition they provide for controlled is Controlled airspace is a generic term that covers the different classifications of airspace and defined dimensions within which air traffic control ( ATC ) service is provided in accordance with the airspace classification . If you are wondering what the specific purpose of ATC is they define that as well , The primary purpose of the ATC system is to prevent a collision between aircraft operating in the system and to organize and expedite the flow of traffic .
CNN has applied for and received multiple waivers for <URL> as allowed by <URL> . <URL> -- This allows " Small unmanned aircraft system ( sUAS ) operations over human beings in accordance with the CNN UAS Operations Manual , Fotokite Pro 1 Operator Guide , and Fotokite Pro 1 Specifications Sheet . " It allows operation " over private or controlled-access property with permission from a person with legal authority to grant access " and prohibits operations over open-air assemblies of people . <URL> -- This allows operations " conducted over human beings for the purpose of closed-set motion picture and television filming " . Make and model of sUAS not specified , but all operations must comply with the operator 's manual . <URL> -- This waiver is granted for the Vantage Robotics Snap only , and allows " operations over all human beings ( including Nonparticipants ) " . It also limits the altitude when operated over people to 150 feet AGL , as opposed to the normal limit of 400 feet AGL . I assume this is the waiver you are interested in . The simple reason why only one particular model of UAS is allowed is that CNN only submitted that model for waiver and no others , and the FAA approved that . This is a somewhat unsatisfying answer , but neither CNN 's nor the FAA 's reasoning is included in the text of the waiver itself . The rest of this answer is speculation on my part . As can be seen on <URL> , the Snap is reasonably lightweight ( 1.37 lbs / 620 g including battery ) , has caged props , and has a high-quality camera . ( The camera is n't a matter of safety , but it is presumably something a cable news provider is interested in . ) If a prop were to fail catastrophically , the cage would hopefully contain at least some of it , thus eliminating risk of a crowd being hit by sharp objects . The height restriction of 150 feet AGL reduces the potential for injury of a nonparticipant should the sUAS fall on them , and the prop cages prevent contact with moving parts . I suspect that CNN applied for a waiver specifically for this model and the FAA approved it based on the following : It 's specific . The more general the application , the more likely it is to be rejected . If you know what you 're working with , you can evaluate all the parameters and come up with a safe solution . If there are more variables , it 's harder to reason about . It has certain safety features as discussed above , which make it more suitable for flight over nonparticipants than some other models . It 's standard . CNN has a single platform to train their over-crowd operators on . Once again , this also has safety benefits , because the operators are extremely familiar with one model of unit , instead of broadly familiar with many different ones . This particular model of sUAS had all the features that CNN wanted and that the FAA was interested in for this application . This may include such factors as weight , safety features , well-written operation and maintenance manual , and ease of maintenance . Additionally CNN may have liked the cost ( the FAA would n't care about that ) . The FAA maintains a list of <URL> .
Solar Impulse has no flaps and a high aspect ratio wing . Therefore , the c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ of the wing should be no higher than 1.8 , most likely 1.6 . While a rigid airfoil can be designed with a higher c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ , it will not have an attractive L/D and a shorter wing would have a c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ below that of the airfoil . Since no fuel is consumed , mass is constant , which makes it very easy to give a lower bound for the minimum speed . <URL> has 269.5 m ² wing area to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² . If we assume standard day conditions at sea level ( density $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m ³ ) , we find vor v $ _ { min } $ : $ $ v _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c _ { l _ { max } } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } = 9.24 \ ; \ small { \ frac { m } { s } } \ ; \ text { or } \ ; 33.27 \ ; \ small { \ frac { km } { h } } $ $ For those of you from metrically challenged cultures : This is 18 knots or 20.67 mph .
Unlikely . The extra fuel burned would cost a lot more than the required Avionics upgrade . Both the 75/767 would be well below optimum cruise level .
Incidental costs specific to the passenger , such as O2 for the passenger 's medical condition , may be paid by the passenger and need not be factored into the cost of the flight for flight sharing costs . In your example , the Hobbs charge for the aircraft is the flight cost . If the passenger wants a headset , or anything else that is not a flight expense , the cost need not be shared . Landing fees , navigation fees and the like are grey areas , and I would split those . But something like a tie-down or hangar fee is not a flight expense , and the passenger may pay for in full . If you read cases where the FAA has prosecuted pilots for conducting operations " for hire " or similar , they tend to be egregious . So in your example , $ 60 would be the right answer . I would suggest that you could even split the cost of the charts you might buy for the trip . As a final word , I would make certain that your passenger understands that you are just sharing expenses , not that they are " paying for a ride . "
As jwenting said , it 's unlikely to happen for many reasons , and if it does , the participants are even less likely to admit it since doing so could get them in trouble both professionally , and with a government regulatory agency for endangering safety . I seem to remember the FAA taking action against a pilot who posted photographs of himself flying with either naked or bikini clad women at his side , but I ca n't seem to find a link right now . There is one <URL> which is somewhat famous in the aviation community for describing a general aviation crash which was likely caused by sexual activity . However , the summary is very delicately worded , to say the least : The private pilot and a pilot rated passenger were going to practice simulated instrument flight . Witnesses observed the airplane 's right wing fail in a dive and crash . Examination of the wreckage and bodies revealed that both occupants were partially clothed and the front right seat was in the full aft reclining position . Neither body showed evidence of seatbelts or shoulder harnesses being worn . Examination of the individuals ' clothing revealed no evidence of ripping or distress to the zippers and belts .
I assume the hole has been properly deburred , otherwise you could suffer cuts on the sharp edges of the hole . What happens else depends on altitude and flight speed . At low level , the outside temperature should be tolerable and the pressure difference between inside and outside should be small , so your hand will be fine . At higher altitude , outside air temperature can drop to -60 ° C rsp . -76 ° F . Since air density is lower , the aircraft will travel fast ( approx . 250 m/s rsp . 560 Mph in case of an airliner ) , and convective cooling at the hole will soon cause hypothermia and frost bites . Also , inside pressure is 0.6 bar rsp 8.8 lb/sq-in higher than outside pressure , and the exposed skin on your palm will feel this as a sucking sensation . I further assume that you need to remove all cabin insulation to put your hand over that hole , so your whole hand will be exposed to the airplane 's metal skin which will have the same temperature as outside air . If the hand is dry and does not freeze to the metal skin , you might manage to keep it in place for a few seconds , but it will hurt . Keep it in contact with the metal skin longer and you will suffer progressive frostbite . The part of the skin which covers the hole should suffer less , since convective cooling should be less intense than the thermal conductivity of the metal skin , which will quickly pull all body heat from your hand where it touches the metal . The pressure difference will not damage your hand , but the low temperature will .
end question
start question
How does CDI work when flying to VOR without DME ?
The VOR and ILS CDI indicates difference , in degrees , between the radial selected and the radial sensed . If the plane was far from the VOR and we turn the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI will move to one side . If the plane was close to the VOR and we turned the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI would move exactly as much , because it indicates the angular difference in degrees . This is in contrast to a CDI slaved to GPS , which indeed indicates lateral distance from the selected track in miles ( en-route ; GPS approach has to simulate ILS ) . VOR does nothing with DME . DME is completely independent piece of equipment that was introduced later than VOR . The only relation is that there is a standard correspondence between VOR and DME channels and the DME receiver automatically tunes to the DME frequency corresponding to the VOR or ILS frequency tuned on your VOR/ILS receiver .
Ah that 's a good question indeed . You asked How to reduce altitude in a passenger jet Normally most of the passenger jets have <URL> They are effective and can be <URL> . Now what happens in case you do n't have spoilers for any reason . I was discussing the subject with a pilot many years ago and he told me the trick you mentioned : you apply rudder to one direction ( I assume opposite to the engine rotation to avoid unpleasant surprises ) . That increases dramatically the forward surface of the plane against the relative air flow . That results in increased drag and thus speed loss . But yaw causes roll ( and vice versa ) . Also the wing of the side you are yawing to , has less lift because it is shaded from the forebody of the plane . This is where the aileron is needed . You need aileron to maintain lateral stability and prevent the aircraft from rolling . See the image bellow . The orange lines denote the area of increased drag by the fuselage . The green area is the " shaded " area of decreased lift of the wing . <URL> Top view from <URL> . Derivative work by me . According to that pilot , this is more effective than spoilers . But there is a trap : You need to be careful not to yaw the plane too much because the shaded wing will loose too much of its lift and will result in capsizing the plane . EDIT : Finally , you mentioned emergency . There are different types of emergencies . Pressurization is an emergency situation but does not affect aircraft control ( at least not directly ) . Hydraulics problems or engine loss is an emergency as well . But that will affect the way you will handle the aircraft . Here I can not help you . A trained pilot perhaps can answer , though I believe that the answers will vary depending on each planes flight manual .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
To avoid overheating , the usual trick is to select the right material : The <URL> used a special aluminium alloy , called <URL> , which had higher strength at elevated temperatures and allowed the Concorde to cruise at Mach 2.02 . Aluminium melts at 660 ° C . The <URL> used stainless steel instead of aluminium to make its top speed of Mach 3.1 possible ( top speed without engine damage was Mach 2.83 ) . Titanium would had been even better , but was expensive and difficult to work with at that time . Stainless steel melts between 1400 ° C and 1450 ° C . The <URL> used <URL> in addition to stainless steel . Its cruise speed was also Mach 3.0 . Titanium melts at 1668 ° C . The <URL> used <URL> for 85 % of its structure to allow a cruising speed of Mach 3.2 . The X-15 was built from <URL> - X , a nickel-chromium alloy which has excellent strength at high temperature ( it starts to melt at 1393 ° C ) and allowed it to go up to Mach 6.5 . The Space Shuttle used a ceramic insulation on top of the load-carrying aluminium structure which kept the heat away from the structure during descent . Note that the Shuttle had to be <URL> to cool the on-board systems after landing . The next trick is to fly higher up where air is less dense . Lower density does not reduce the air temperature , but it reduces the heat flow so the airframe will settle at a lower temperature . Remember that the eventual heat is the combination of convection , radiation and heat conductivity . Flying high up allows especially the top surface to radiate heat freely into the black of space above . The hottest aircraft ever was the <URL> A-2 . For a speed record attempt , the whole aircraft was covered with <URL> so the process of sublimation would carry some more heat away . To protect the paint from liquid oxygen , a white topcoat was applied also . <URL> X-15 A-2 shortly after being dropped from the B-52 carrier ( picture <URL> ) . Note the small barrel under the lower fin : This was a ramjet which was test-flown on this occasion . <URL> Damage to the ventral stabilizer . The ramjet separated prematurely due to frictional heating ( picture <URL> ) A third trick is to fly fast only for a short time . A heat-seeking air to air missile will easily reach Mach 3 , but only for less than a minute . To keep the sensor cooled , a pressurized gas ( argon or nitrogen ) would be expanded ( the <URL> even uses a <URL> ) . By heating the structure or using an internal heat sink , the limited heat load can be tolerated , albeit only for a very limited time .
When you break the rules while flying , it falls into one of two categories : Only you know about it The FAA knows about it In either case , the very first thing you do is file a <URL> . You might ask , why does NASA care about airplanes ? They are acting as an uninterested 3rd party to your actions , and collate statistics from this information . If the FAA becomes aware of your actions , the presence of an ASRS form in many cases limits the action the FAA can take against you . It is always worth filling out and I have filled out a few myself . In the case the FAA knows about it , how do they know about it ? This typically happens when you are in radar control and do something wrong or are on the ground and do something wrong . Some examples of this are : Flight plan in the FMS is incorrect and you make a turn off of your cleared course . The controller will see this . You taxi incorrectly Runway incursion Climb / descend through your cleared altitude In most of these cases , the controller will just correct you . In cases that result in a loss of separation or a runway incursion , you may get a phone number from the controller to call when you land . Less commonly , something you do may be witnessed by an FAA inspector -- you buzzed the tower when he was on the ramp watching you . Or perhaps he watched you get into a plane and fly off without performing a pre-flight inspection . Perhaps you were ramp checked and something was n't right with you or the airplane . In all of the above cases , if you are able to file an ASRS form , do it . If you do something that may be severe and are a member of AOPA , call their legal team and discuss the situation . If the FAA responds to something they know about , it can range from a controller talking to you over the phone up to certificate action ( suspension , revoked ) to the infamous " 709 ride " , in which the FSDO administers a checkride and decides which , if any , ratings you keep and which you lose .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
The icing occurs due to the presence of supercooled liquid droplets . From <URL> : The condition most favorable for very hazardous icing is the presence of many large , supercooled water drops ... Thus , heaviest icing usually will be found at or slightly above the freezing level where temperature is never more than a few degrees below freezing . For ice to form on the aircraft , the following conditions are required : The presence of liquid water i.e. rain or cloud droplets . The temperature at aircraft structure should be at or below freezing point . Now , as the altitude increases , temperature decreases . Using this , the best way to avoid these conditions would be to either : Fly above the altitude where the temperature is below -15 degrees , where supercooled water drops are not present ( they would 've frozen already ) , or Fly below the altitude where the temperature is above freezing point , where the water droplets , if present are not supercooled .
The engine does not move , the air flow is only redirected . The method of redirecting the flow varies with the size , configuration , and manufacturer of the engine . The flow does not need to be directed completely forward ; the flow is generally mostly outwards and partially foward . This is still enough to create significant drag and slow the aircraft down . In smaller and older engines , the entire flow is redirected . This corresponds to the first to configurations below . Buckets or clamshell doors close over the jet flow to redirect the air . In larger engines , particularly high-bypass turbofans , only part of the air is redirected . This corresponds to the last configuration below . The core air from the engine still exits normall , but the bypass air from the fan is redirected . Since the bypass air on these engines is a much greater flow than the engine core air , this results in a net reverse thrust . There are multiple mechanisms , but the general idea is to deploy doors that block the bypass air and send it through the sides of the engine cowl . Turboprop aircraft just change the pitch of the propeller blades such that the propeller pushes air forward instead of backward . The pitch in which the blades provide reverse thrust is called the " beta range . " In civil aircraft , reverse thrust is only used when on the ground . There are typically interlocks in the system that prevent the thrust reversers from deploying if the aircraft does not sense that it is on the ground . Once the aircraft touches down , the pilot will deploy the reverse thrust . Some military aircraft like the C-17 can use reverse thrust in the air . This enables them to perform very steep descents . Reverse thrust is more of an " optional " method of braking ( see this <URL> ) , only to provide extra stopping power when needed . This particularly helps when braking force is less effective , such as in rain or snow . Before landing , pilots will take into account the wind , aircraft weight , runway length , and any contamination of the runway ( rain or snow ) . Based on this they will know what kind of braking force is needed and whether they should use thrust reversers . The thrust reversers do n't always have to be operational for an aircraft to fly . Some operators choose to disable them , which decreases maintenance costs . The thrust reversers can also break , in which case they will be mechanically locked to prevent them from deploying until they can be fixed . Pilots will consider this when they are computing their landing distance .
Type of modulation in term of ITU classification In the context of radiocommunication , PCM is more accurately described as ITU class <URL> : As bits are transmitted one by one , the carrier is sent or interrupted , according to the bit value . Phase and frequency are maintained constant . It 's like morse at high speed . It can also be seen as amplitude modulation ( either the carrier has its maximum amplitude , or a null amplitude ) . This form of modulation is also commonly known as binary amplitude shift keying ( BASK ) or on-off keying ( OOK ) , and is a variant of pulse amplitude modulation ( PAM ) . See <URL> for more details . Data communication , on the borders of multiple engineering disciplines is quite generous with synonyms . There is a common confusion between A1D modulation and the PCM codec used in the context of audio files . This PCM is a near-lossless codec ( coder-decoder ) used in <URL> and legacy <URL> , and has nothing to do with a modulation . But anyway ... this produces this oscillogram ( bottom : bits to transmit , top : signal transmitted by the antenna ) : <URL> <URL> A binary 1 pulse generates a burst of the carrier wave . A1D is often used to transmit information at low speed , because it 's not very efficient in term of bandwidth , and this bandwidth increases with the data transmission rate . Sending the 12 bits of a transponder every now and then was okay in the past ( where the 12 bits come from ? see <URL> ) . A1D is also used by GPS satellites which are actually slow data broadcasters . Sort of signal : Analog vs digital At the antenna the signal is the modulated carrier , and it 's always an analog signal , regardless of the nature of information to carry . The carrier is generally a high frequency sine wave . The carrier is modulated by the twelve bits of mode A and C information , which are digital ( binary ) : Each bit , one after the other , modulates the carrier , that is the carrier is interrupted or transmitted according to the bit value , for a given period of time . Modulation means changing something on the carrier to " imprint " the information into it , so that it can be demodulated at the receiver side . The " something " can be one ( or more ) of the three properties of a wave : Amplitude , phase or frequency . In A1D , this is the amplitude ( as the " A " indicates ) . The modulated signal at the antenna will still be an analog sine wave , so no strong interference will occur ( though A1D is not the most friendly class of modulation in term of spectrum use ) . But , why do we need a carrier in the first place ? ( baseband vs passband ) Transmission of the raw information without modulation is said a baseband transmission . This is used for instance in Ethernet over twisted pair ( e.g. 100base-T , where base just means baseband ) . The signal is ranging from 0 Hz to 100 MHz ( assuming a random distribution of the data ) . Therefore if there were two channels at the same time on the wire , a receiver would receive data without being able to identify the channel ( not mentioning the fact that each channel would destroy information of the other channel ) . The only way to share the medium is to limit the transmission to a single channel at a time , and this is what is done in Ethernet ( by <URL> ) . However collision detection does n't work when there is an unlimited number of transmitters , collision avoidance would leave no time for a useful transmission . The other way is to add some fixed frequency to the second channel , e.g. by adding 100 MHz , the second channel frequency will now range from 100 MHz to 200 MHz , and a receiver can easily separate each channel ( by frequency filtering ) and receive both . The second channel data will then be obtained by subtracting 100 MHz from the signal . This principle is just the one we know for radio , with a carrier ( the fixed frequency the receiver is tuned for ) and a modulation method . Technically this is called " passband " transmission . The last step : Demodulation The receiver receives the modulated carrier , usually very weak , and often distorted . The demodulation step is to extract the original information from the carrier by looking at the carrier property that was changed to carry the information . For A1D modulation this is indeed immediate , carrier presence = bit of value 1 , no carrier = bit of value 0 ( this can be inverted if required , just a matter of agreement between the transmitter and the receiver ) . Now you can look again at the previous oscillogram and think the top describes the signal received by the receiver antenna , and the bottom is the original information extracted by the demodulator stage . The binary signal received is not perfect , but it will be discriminated as 0 or 1 depending on whether the value is smaller or larger than a given threshold ( so some errors can occur , there are solutions to prevent that ) . The carrier is then discarded . Its role was only to carry the payload .
The <URL> seems to be that no one knows for sure , but the most likely explanation is that before class A existed there was Positive Control Airspace ( PCA ) that started at FL240 , and DME was a requirement in PCA . The main reasons for requiring DME were : There 's a limited number of <URL> so it is n't easy to use cross-radials from other VORs for fixes or position reporting ; DME is a simple alternative If there 's no radar coverage then ATC can still manage lateral separation effectively using DME That all seems plausible enough , but some sources out there say that PCA started at FL180 , not FL240 , e.g. this <URL> : [ VFR on top ] was a principle [ sic ] factor in the <URL> and led to " Positive Control Airspace " ( PCA ) FL180 and above . Because of the speeds of the aircraft involved , non-radar procedures were unwieldy ( standards called for ten minutes between aircraft ; some 80 miles for a typical jet ) , even with the development of aircraft installed Distance Measuring Equipment ( DME ) and the reduced separation available between DME equipped aircraft ( 20 miles ) . FL240 is also where ATC starts using Mach numbers instead of knots ( ATC orders <URL> ) and the separation minima change ( section 8-4-4 ) . I do n't know if that 's for historical reasons or physical/operational reasons , but it looks to me like FL240 is considered the general starting point for high-altitude operations ( <URL> requires a high-altitude endorsement for aircraft that can operate above 25,000 ' MSL ) .
On many early jet airliners water was sprayed it into the engine air intake or compressor where evaporation cooled the air and allowed cooler , denser air to be ingested by the engine . The result was increased thrust , especially needed for operation from hot and high airfields , or a cooler temperature in the hot section of the engine at the same thrust . From <URL> : Water injection was first used over 45 years ago on commercial transport aircraft to increase thrust . Boeing 707-120 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C-6 engines and later , the Boeing 747-100 &amp; 200 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT9D-3AW and -7 AW engines , all used water injection for thrust augmentation . This report discusses various techniques for water injection : ahead of the low pressure compressor . This is the common method for thrust increase in hot and high conditions . ahead of the high pressure turbine . This is used in cold weather , when injection ahead of the low pressure compressor would run the risk of ice accretion . together with fuel into the combustor . This technique is commonly used with stationary gas turbines in order to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions . And <URL> is more specific on the system : Four water-injected Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C -- 6 engines were used on early Boeing 707 -- 120 Stratoliner aircraft to augment takeoff thrust on days above 20 ° F . This system used a belly tank to store demineralized water and an electrically driven boost pump to deliver water to the four engines . At that point , an engine-driven mechanical pump increased the pressure to about 400 psi for injection before the low-pressure compressor ( LPC ) on days as cold as or colder than 40 ° F and for injection into the high-pressure compressor ( HPC ) only on days between 40 and 20 ° F . What would happen if kerosene instead of water was filled into the water tanks was tried out by a <URL> : The aircraft collided with a bridge , shearing off both wings , after a double engine failure occurred during takeoff . The water-injection system to cool the engines during takeoff was inadvertently filled with kerosene instead of water . More recent work on water injection focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides which form in lean combustion and high temperature . By lowering the temperature level of the combustion process , the <URL> can be greatly reduced .
The answer is in two parts . First , at higher speeds , control surfaces have more air moving over them and so they do n't have to angle as much to provide the same force necessary to move the jet as they do at slower speeds . In fact , a thin control surface like this canard will stall at lower angles of attack than a thicker profile would ( the thinner profile reduces drag which is why it 's used here ) , and a stalled surface ca n't do its job . Second , modern jets like the Rafale have fly-by-wire systems with flight limiters , to avoid the pilot overstressing the airframe at high speeds . The first video shows the Rafale in landing configuration , approaching a carrier at maybe 150kts . The second video shows high-G maneuvers at probably between 300 and 400kts . The forces at play on the canard are , in general , related to the square of the speed of the air moving past them , so if the system allowed the canards to present the same angle to a 300-knot flow as a 150-knot flow , all other things being equal the canard would be under 4 times the stress . At 450 knots that canard would be under 9 times the stress . Very quickly you would exceed the mechanical strength of that canard surface entirely , and then you would n't have a canard surface at all . So instead , the canards are moved at a shallower angle , with the difference in pitch rate , up to what the flight limiter will allow the entire aircraft to do , is made up using the elevons on the wings .
There is transfer of control -- " I have the aircraft " / " You have the aircraft . " Then there is intervening -- which may or may not involve a transfer of control ... directing " you 're getting slow , ADD POWER NOW " may be a more effective example of intervening than taking control , depending on the phase of flight &amp; other circumstances . ( It 's easier for a First Officer to intervene with a directive " add power " or " go around " than than for him to take the aircraft ! ) And then there is what was shown in the video , which looks like neither of the above -- simply crew duties as @Lnafziger commented . The captain there did n't take over control ( yet -- the video ends before he takes over to taxi ) , they simply both pushed forward on the control column -- put weight on the nosewheel for better steering , perhaps . Looked perfectly normal &amp; expected . To answer the question as asked ( " Under what circumstances should the pilot not flying intervene without asking for aircraft control ? " ) , there are plenty of times when intervening without taking control could be appropriate -- the directive callout ( " ADD POWER ! " ) , or correcting an aircraft system or Flight Management Computer setting , for example . There are also a smaller set of times when " I have the aircraft ! " is appropriate : a disoriented pilot is about to fly into an unusual attitude , or a pilot is incapacitated in a phase of flight where there is no time for " hey , are you okay ? " to differentiate between distracted &amp; incapacitated . The captain always has the prerogative to take over , although there are plenty of times when something else is a better choice -- directing " go around " instead of taking the aircraft at low altitude to try &amp; salvage a bad landing , for instance . Particularly in cases of incapacitation , the FO also has that option , but realistically , he may have more explaining to do than the captain would have if roles were reversed . In a pure training situation ( initial formation flying in the military comes to mind ) , there are times when control may transfer back &amp; forth ... the student flies as far as he can , starts to get out of position , the instructor takes the aircraft , puts it back into position , the student is given control again , etc. . But that 's not really the sort of scenario you 'd see in airline operations . There might be times the pilot-monitoring captain ( i.e. he is the pilot not-flying on the FO 's leg ) might take over the FMC programming rather than talking the FO through the necessary changes -- sometimes it 's just better to do it &amp; explain what you 're doing rather than talk through each entry and button press . But that 's again not really the same as " I have the aircraft . " With qualified crews in the airline world , it just is n't all that common that a situation arises where one pilot has to assume control outside of the normal transfers ( i.e. the normal transfer to the captain on landing if he has the only nosewheel steering tiller ) . And , as noted in the comments , every transfer , both expected and unexpected , needs to be verbalized by both pilots : " I have the aircraft . " " You have the aircraft . "
Thankfully , I never had to make this choice . In my training I learned to stay in the plane and flare at the height of the treetops , then let the plane sink into the branches and have them stop and suspend the aircraft . The fuselage is quite effective as a protective shell , and up on top the branches are thin and flexible . Use the parachute only to hoist yourself down from the stricken plane , if necessary . <URL> Two-seater after landing in trees at Boberg glider port ( picture <URL> )
X-Plane is a much truer simulation of flying than that flight game Microsoft used to make . In fact , when coupled with certified hardware and a CFI , X-Plane can power a sim that you can actually log FTD time in . Since you ask about airline flying for your comparison , there is a lot more to that than just the flying . An airline pilot is , with few exceptions , always operating under instrument flight rules ( IFR ) . This means flying in the clouds with no reference to anything but instruments , weather as bad as a few hundred feet visibility and strong crosswinds for landing and takeoff are all part of normal ops . You are also operating under ATC , so radio ops are normal . The only comparable computer simulation of ATC to reality is VATSIM ( as mentioned in comments ) , though it does n't approach the level of busyness that you 'll find in some airspace and airports ( with the exception of some of their organized fly-ins ) . A transport category jet is also a bit more complicated than " turn the engines on , release the brakes and go " . The only computer sims that capture the level of detail properly are ones like the <URL> . Before you can start the engines , you need to first power the aircraft and perform your receiving checklists , and if you are the first flight of the day , additional first-flight checks . These cover : Thorough pre-flight walkaround inspection Powering the airplane on batteries Transition to ground power ( GPU ) or start the APU for power Verifying the state of all systems Fire test Stall warning test Anti-ice system test Checking oxygen levels and masks Autopilot test Backup instrumentation checks Before pushback : Verifying fuel load Get load information from flight attendant/gate agent/dispatch/ramp supervisor Calculate weight and balance , move passengers and/or bags if needed Get ATC clearance and program FMS Flight crew and cabin crew briefings Weather briefing Start APU and disconnect ground power and ground air conditioning Get clearance for pushback During pushback : " Before engine start " checklist Set bleeds / packs for engine start Communicate with ground crew for engine start Now you can start an engine . Unlike a small airplane where you start the engine by turning a key in an ignition switch , <URL> . Engine parameters must also be monitored in case an abort becomes necessary . At this point you can get a taxi clearance and start moving toward the runway . You 'll go through a couple more checklists , " after start/taxi " and " before departure " , to prepare the plane for taxi and takeoff . Once you are on the runway , with all checks completed , with more fuel than your minimum dispatch release , and an ATC clearance you may then release the brakes and go flying . One pilot will fly and the other will monitor instruments . Much of the above is beyond the typical scope of X-Plane , though some can be addressed with specific aircraft add-ons , manuals and software like VATSIM .
Here in the US ( you did n't specify where , and this is different in other countries ) , traveling domestically in your own private aircraft is much like traveling in your own private car . Except in very specific situations , you are not generally required to go through security , and at many , many smaller general aviation airports airport security is almost non-existent , or at the very least they are not checking passengers and their luggage . If the police have a reason to suspect that something illegal is taking place ( they have reasonable cause ) then they can search the airplane , but again , much like in your car , this does n't usually happen . International flights are a very different matter though , and the airplane , crew , passengers , and luggage must all clear customs at departure and arrival airports where they will be inspected .
On high-altitude North Atlantic flights , planes can fly zero , one , or two miles to the right of the centerline of your assigned track . The offset is randomly selected . This is called Strategic Lateral Offset Procedures . It 's used in the oceanic flights or flights over remote land where there is typically no radar service , and ATC can not " see " traffic separation . It provides , on average , additional horizontal separation between planes reducing the likelihood of midair collision and high altitude wake turbulence ( which can occur as a result of RVSM ) . Strategic lateral offsets can be authorized in en-route oceanic or remote continental airspace . The decision to apply a strategic lateral offset is the responsibility of the flight crew , and only where offsets have been authorized by the ATS and when the aircraft is equipped with automatic offset tracking capability . <URL>
<URL> has a lot of programs . Government programs are confusing . Regarding the two you mention ... Global Entry basically expedites the Customs process for pre-approved travelers , making use of an automated kiosk . The service is available at <URL> , generally major aiports . ClearlyNormally , this program is meant for the commercial traveler . However , large international GA destinations can have this service as well . Example : FLL , one of the nation 's busiest international GA airports . <URL> . <URL> means that traveler processing/aircraft inspection are handled before the flight , rather than upon arrival in the US . But , this is n't very widespread yet . Private aircraft preclearance processing is only available at Shannon , Ireland and Oranjestad , Aruba . And the list of airports you can fly to , from what I have seen , is smaller than the list of Ports of Entry . So no , neither of these programs really helps you out as a Canada/US travelling GA pilot . They are n't for small airports . You have to deal with <URL> , and <URL> :)
This <URL> describes it nicely . They are also known as inertial seperators : The nacelle inlet of many aircraft models includes an inertial separator provided by the aircraft manufacturer to prevent heavy particles from entering the engine inlet . Most installations incorporate two moveable vanes , one upstream of the engine inlet and the other blocking the bypass duct . For bypass operation , the inlet vane is lowered and the bypass duct vane is opened permitting maximum separating efficiency . In some installations , the vanes are fixed in the bypass mode . As shown in the sketch , air entering the engine inlet must turn sharply past the inlet vane ( shown in the lowered position ) . Particles heavier than air are carried straight through , by their own inertia , into the bypass duct and dumped overboard . The aft radial inlet design provides many advantages such as superior anti-icing utilizing the principle of inertial separation , low noise levels and unequalled protection from FOD .
end question
start question
Is it economically viable for Emirates to use a 777 for some of these routes ?
There are many reasons an airline may fly to a given destination and the economics of air travel are complex to say the least . I would like to fist address your question could n't the people living around Bologna take a train to Milan to get to Dubai Sure they could but airlines do n't only service locations because of the people that live there they may service them for the very people that do n't . I fly both commercially and as a GA pilot to explore new places . I generally fly out of the Philadelphia area which is one of the busiest in the US . From there I head to plenty of tiny airstrips all over the place , none of these airstrips are in towns that are as economically prosperous or busy as Philadelphia but they see my travel because I wish to explore the area . The same goes for foreign airports , simply because a country is less economically prosperous or " busy " than another does not mean it has less to offer culturally and in fact may be a hot bed for tourism . I have personally been to both Prague and Bologna and they are great cities both with large tourist markets . I can see it being very economical to fly a wide body airliner there full of tourists and maybe only a few locals . While layovers may attract the lower budget fliers there are plenty of people who prefer a direct flight for both the convenience and time savings . You may be able to find more <URL> .
In the US , the National Flight Data Center ( NFDC ) publishes a database of preferred routes . <URL> Here is the result of entering only BWI to PHX : <URL> A practical resource for planning a real flight is to review the routes of previous flights . I browse the origin and destinations , or nearby airports to my flight and select a similar aircraft to which I am flying . On FlightAware , the route is shown in the lower right . Here 's an example : <URL>
In this answer I 'll assume you are analysing ADS-B data on 1090 MHz , which is the defacto global standard . I am less familiar with the ADS-B on UAT ( 987 MHz ) which is used in addition to 1090MHz in the USA , but I assume the same logic applies . There are no ICAO addresses assigned to TIS-B targets . If an aircraft has an ICAO-address which is detected by the surveillance sensors ( e.g. Mode S radar , multilateration system ) and the aircraft is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with the ICAO 24 bit address . If an aircraft has no ICAO-address , ( i.e. it has a Mode A/C transponder / ATCRBS ) and is not transmitting ADS-B , then a TIS-B target will be created with a 24 bit address that consists of the Mode A code ( first 12 bits ) and a unique surveillance system track number ( last 12 bits ) . Primary radar targets are allocated a " Mode A code " of all zeros . To determine whether you receive an ADS-B message or a TIS-B message you should start looking at the Downlink Format ( DF , first 5 bits of the message ) if the DF = 17 , then it is an ADS-B message . If the DF = 18 then you look at the control field ( CF , bits 6-8 ) . CF = 0 and CF = 1 are ADS-B messages . CF = 2,3 &amp; 5 are TIS-B messages . CF = 6 are ADS-R messages . CF = 4 are TIS-B / ADS-R system status messages . The TIS-B messages contain an ICAO/Mode A Flag ( IMF ) bit which indicates how to interpret the 24 bit address . The location of this bits varies by message type ( e.g. position , velocity ) and replaces a bit in the ADS-B format that has no meaning in TIS-B .
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
You need some inhomogeneity to extract energy . For gliders there are three basic ways to do that : <URL> : The sun heats up the ground which in turn heats up the air above it . Hotter air is lighter and rises up . It keeps rising as long as the <URL> of the atmosphere is above the <URL> rate . This means that three conditions must be met for thermals to occur : 1.1 Sunshine 1.2 Sufficient atmospheric lability 1.3 Ground that easily heats up , such as forest or sand . <URL> : Air streams across a hill and rises up on the windward side . Behind mountain ranges you might also find <URL> , an atmospheric oscillation caused by wind blowing across a mountain . <URL> : Here the wind gradient in the atmospheric boundary layer is exploited by flying turns while pulling up when turning into a headwind and diving down when turning into a tailwind . This is currently only used by Albatrosses and has been experimented with by Ingo Renner , but is much too stressful for human pilots if done for extended periods . Look at the <URL> in your glider and try to fly circles when you see an indication of rising air . Tighten the circle when climb rate decreases and flatten it when it increases in order to center the glider in the thermal .
Short answer : Yes for a short-range airliner , but it would cost a couple of seat rows . No for long-range travel . Longer answer : To burn 1 kg of Kerosene you need <URL> or 3.59 kg of O$ _ 2 $ . Its <URL> is 1.14 kg/l , so it will use 2.65 times the volume of fuel . A cryogenic tank with sufficient insulation is required , though . This means it should have as little surface area per volume as possible . You could not put the LOX into the wing tanks , but need something with a spherical shape somewhere in the fuselage . If a large commercial <URL> , it would need to add 359 tons of oxygen . This would be already close to its own takeoff mass , so adding the oxygen will make the airplane too heavy . If , however , you are content with a short-range version of the same airliner that consumes just 20 tons of kerosene for its trip , the needed 72 tons of LOX would require a volume of 63 m ³ which is equal to a sphere of 5 m diameter . This would fit nicely into the cabin of a wide body airliner and allow for some insulation . For cg reasons the tank would be right after the wing spar carrythrough , so the airliner would have two short cabins , one ahead and one aft of the tank . Sorry , the 747 hump can not be used for LOX storage - the cg shift would be too big . For running regular jet engines you would still need lots of process gas . To carry that along as well is impossible , even for a short hop . Process gas is all the nitrogen and extra oxygen which is compressed , heated and then ducted through the turbines and accelerated on the way out , but does not actively take part in the combustion . Without that mass of gas thrust would be much lower , or the exhaust speed would need to be much higher for the same thrust , turning the engine into a rocket .
This question devolves into two related questions . 1 ) When buying or leasing the plane , what is the most economical plane for this route ( and other routes that the plane may have to fly ) at your airline . One size does not fit all , what is optimal for one leg may be much less desirable for the next . " Economical " includes capital costs , maintenance costs , operating costs , and down-time costs . Are your maintenance facilities proficient on this type plane ? Are your pilots cross trained on this new aircraft ? 2 ) Years later your short term choices are limited to the aircraft in your inventory . What is the best available aircraft for this flight ? For the entire route ? Can this plane fit into the runways at the required airports ? Can the aircraft make the trip without stopping for fuel ? How many passengers have booked this flight in advance ? the questions that need to be considered are many . Short answer : " Oh , I think I 'll fly the Turboprop today " is not how it works . It is a long involved decision considering multiple factors all leading to what user16230 calls efficiency and what I will call profit . Same thing measured differently .
This explanation is for a subsonic aircraft . If air flow is disturbed at the engine inlet , like it happens if the engine angle of attack is too high ( or the crab angle too high like in <URL> ) or air is disturbed by another mean like the wake of a preceding aircraft , a compressor stall can occur . The flow within the fan and compressor stages is no more homogeneous , and different mass flows exist in the compressor . These disparities are increased until the flow stops in low mass flow regions , the reason is : Compressor stages are made of blades and vanes delimiting small passages between them . If one passage is blocked by slow air , upstream air tries to use the next one . The next passage is reached under a higher angle of attack , so this tends to stall this passage too . <URL> This effect propagates rapidly and is called a rotating stall . This has been explained here : <URL> Effects Unsteady airflow As passages are blocked by detached air over stalled airfoils , pressure increases in the passages and upstream . Detached airflow being very turbulent with changing velocity ( including negative values ) , blade/vane vibrations can start . Vibrations are not good for an engine , buffeting can break a metal part if resonance occurs . Pressure decrease The compressor being now less efficient , pressure downstream the compressor decreases in addition of being variable . The pressure variation intensity is somehow limited by the plenum chamber effect of the compressor diffuser for an axial compressor and diffuser stator after the impeller for a centrifugal compressor . <URL> Location of the diffuser , <URL> Depending on whether a new balance can be found or not , combustion may continue while the rotating stall occurs . In that case it 'll be at reduced power due to the less efficient compressor , and a lower fuel flow is required . It may be necessary to shutdown the engine and restart it to get out of the compressor stall . Overheating If fuel flow is not reduced in a steady rotating stall , the mixture becomes too rich , combustion temperature increases , overheating occurs in the combustion chamber and downstream in the turbine . As the materials used for the combustion chamber and the turbine are already at their highest sustainable temperature , any increase can damage them . This can happen if the fuel control unit ( FCU ) does n't limit fuel flow correctly and attempts to maintain previous thrust / fuel flow . It is suspected this was the cause of <URL> . Surge The compressor diffuser ( or plenum in a centrifugal compressor ) is upstream of the combustion chamber . The latter is a very high pressure region at hot temperature . If the diffuser pressure is too low compared to turbine inlet pressure , hot gas can start flowing back into the diffuser and the compressor . This is a <URL> . The surge creates a loud bang and the pressure wave can damage the fan and the engine inlet . The surge can be associated with flames getting out of the engine by the exhaust pipe , or the engine inlet . There is also an asymmetrical additional thrust leading to a yaw force . Compressor elements are not designed to sustain hot gas from the combustion chamber , they may be damaged if exposition is repeated . Again the engine may recover itself from the surge , if there is no damage . The cycle can repeat but at some point damages are inevitable . Loss of control If the surge is important and the aircraft is in a critical phase ( e.g. rotating to take off ) , the yaw effect can lead to a loss of control . The yaw effect was actually interpreted as a collision with another aircraft on the runway in this <URL> .
There are many reasons . At least one is that the airline may not need that airframe type until later that day ( the next flight that requires said airframe ) . Airlines do n't just fly any plane they have on any route they have , this would be terribly inefficient and involve using an airplane that is not needed for a given mission . Take any major airline for example that fly large planes to lots of destination in Europe . Lets say that they have a 777 Arrive at EWR from Paris . The next long haul flight that airline has out of EWR is that evening to Dublin . But though out the day the carrier has 2 commuter flights down to Charlottesville VA totaling about 100 passengers between the two flights . They are not going to use a 777 to move 100 people and some light bags , so the plane sits until its needed again . All planes ( even non commercial ) are built for a given " mission " much like you would not buy a Ferrari if you wanted a car that was good on gas .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
An Aeronautical License issued by the <URL> ( ACMA ) is required in order to operate a handheld aviation-band VHF transceiver in Australia . An aeronautical licence is issued to authorise a station that : is not fixed to an aircraft ; is operated on aeronautical frequencies ; is operated for purposes relating to the operation of an aircraft , or airport or aerodrome operations ; and in relation to an aircraft includes a mobile station operated on board the aircraft or on the ground in communication with aircraft . An aeronautical licence is necessary to authorise the operation of stations providing : air traffic control services ; aerodrome radio information services ; private company radiocommunications ; and other airport or aerodrome services . Reference : <URL> The Australian-based <URL> tutorial website may also provide more useful information . ( Note : This applies for a transceiver -- i.e. transmit &amp; receive -- rules may be different for receive-only ) .
You did n't say which country you 're asking about , but in the US it 's legal . Your definition of service ceiling <URL> , and there 's no regulation that I know of that requires you remain below it . The only clear case I can think of would be if the POH says that the service ceiling is an actual limitation and you should n't operate above it . Exceeding limitations in the POH is a violation of <URL> : Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards The <URL> requires you to report to ATC if you ca n't maintain a 500ft/min climb rate , so I suppose that not doing that could get you in trouble somehow . But there 's no actual regulation , as far as I can see . There are other , contrived scenarios that you could invent . If exceeding the service ceiling would require specific equipment or training that you do n't have , then you could be in violation of various regulations , but that is n't because of the service ceiling itself . And finally , there 's the catch-all <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . If you do operate above the service ceiling and something goes wrong , then the FAA could bust you on that . Trying to get over mountains at or close to your service ceiling could be an example .
Yes , based purely on the wing shape an airliner could fly upside down and maintain a straight inverted flight . The lift of the wing is a function of the vertical angle of the airflow , the angle of attack . <URL> <URL> The picture shows an airfoil pointed upwards , but the same forces apply when the wing nose point downwards . Then turn the picture upside down , and you have lift pointing upwards again . The situation is valid for an asymmetric airfoil as well , the only difference being that it provides lift at AoA zero . Zero lift is provided at a slight negative angle of attack , so the aircraft nose will be further up when inverted , still below the stall angle though .
The Part 141 flight school that I used to work at quoted around \ $ 7,000 for their instrument package , which was 30 hours of dual flight , 20 hours of ground instruction , and 10 hours of PC-ATD simulator time . They were a Cessna Pilot Center using the old CPC King Schools course . It was a good course , and while numbers varied , I did have a couple of students who squeaked by right on the Part 141 course minimums . Other pilots added 5 to 10 hours more flight training into the mix . In general , my gut says that it should cost an average pilot who has 100 + hours and flies semi-regularly between \ $ 7,000 and \ $ 9,000 ; probably closer to the low end than the high end , especially if the student does a bunch of self study at home on a flight simulator , possibly using VATSim as a simulated ATC . As far as what to look for , I would recommend a Part 141 course just because the FAA is involved in the course standards , and instructor standardization is ( supposed to be ) part of the 141 criteria . It might be worth asking what their first-attempt pass rate is on checkrides , but that 's not a meaningful long-term measure of the course 's quality , just a short-term one . You should find a course whose syllabus makes sense , includes simulator training and scenario-based flights , and make sure you work with an instructor you like . They ca n't be your best friend - they very well might need to give you some serious critique or cut a lesson short because things are n't going well - but you should be happy to spend a couple of hours a foot away from them in the cockpit . I 'm trying to track down the average hours to attain an instrument rating in the US ; if I find it , I 'll update my answer .
Two things are important here : It is about a glider , so no fuel is consumed , and the mass is constant over time . The angle of attack is constant . This means also that the lift and drag coefficients are constant . If the mass and the lift coefficient are constant , and we assume a constant load factor ( implied by the description ) , the dynamic pressure is also constant , and the airspeed changes with the square root of air density . implies that the altitude decreases , so the indicated speed will be constant , but the true speed will decrease . Unfortunately , the condition e ) is not precise enough to make this distinction . e ) could be correct or not , depending on the definition of V. I would suggest that also c ) could be a correct answer : If the angle of attack and the mass are constant , so should be the drag coefficient . However , gliding down also implies that the <URL> changes because true speed decreases and temperature increases over the glide . Strictly speaking , this would also mean a very slowly changing drag coefficient . Answers b ) and d ) are false and I agree with your reasoning .
<URL> . The UK has some very strange ideas about Radio , which bear no resemblance to the reality of physics and how radio actually works . Foremost among those ideas is the idea that you are only legally allowed to listen to transmissions intended for " general reception " : The services that can be listened to under the definition of general reception are : licensed broadcasting stations ; amateur and citizens ' band radio transmissions ; and weather and navigation transmissions Radio scanners should not be used to listen to any other radio services , including illegal radio stations ( pirates ) ( by virtue of the fact that they are not licensed radio stations ) . Aviation-band transmissions are not on Ofcom 's list , so even though they are broadcast entirely " in the clear " and anyone with an appropriately tuned AM receiver could hear them you are legally prohibited from listening to them . Providing feeds to LiveATC would also appear to be a violation , though it 's not clear to me that listening to LiveATC streams would put the listener in violation of the law . From the same Ofcom site : ... it is illegal to listen to anything other than general reception transmissions unless you are either a licensed user of the frequencies in question or have been specifically authorised to do so by a designated person . and ... it is also illegal to tell a third party what has been heard in a transmission a person has listened to illegally . So anyone providing UK aviation band transmissions to LiveATC may be in violation of both of those laws , but I 'm not certain what that means for LiveATC listeners ( that would be a question to ask Ofcom ) .
Many ( especially larger ) airlines have a history and infrastructure for engines from a specific manufacturer and are unlikely to change that , the cost would extend far beyond just the cost of changing the contract . E.g. KLM has a massive investment in maintenance facilities for GE engines , workshops , spare parts warehouses , highly trained specialised technicians . Retooling to RR would be prohibitive for them . Of course a smaller operation without maintenance facilities of their own might be more flexible in that and just buy whatever is cheapest at the time , contracting out maintenance to various companies as needed . But even then , it 's often more economical to have a single maintenance provider doing all your work for you , which might well mean a provider who 's specialised in a single series of engines , for example if you 're based at Schiphol there 's a good chance you 'll be contracting out your maintenance to KLM and their GE specialised shops . So there are many good reasons for airlines to stick with a single engine supplier ( and to a degree with a single aircraft manufacturer ) , even if the cost of buying those engines is higher than selecting competing engines from another manufacturer . Say you 're going to save 0.1 % in your fuel bills for the 2 new aircraft you 're buying to increase the fleet of 20 with other engines you have already ( and that 's a big if , those engines are pretty close between manufacturers for a specific aircraft ) . You 'd need to fly a LOT for it to be worth building an entire duplicate maintenance network just for those few new aircraft . Of course if it 's part of a long term plan to replace the entire fleet with aircraft using that other manufacturer 's engines , that 's a different story . But mixed engine fleets tend not to be the most economical way to go , even if on one type manufacturer A is marginally more fuel efficient and on type B manufacturer B is marginally more fuel efficient ( and that 's what you 're going to see , marginal differences only ) . If you 're talking an operation like Delta or United , with hundreds of aircraft of each type , it might be a different story . But then too you 're talking about more aircraft with each manufacturer 's engines than most other airlines have in total , and they 'll have multiple maintenance shops themselves , making it easier to have a facility for each manufacturer ( and of course in case of the big US airlines , they tend to have ended up with that in the course of gobbling up other airlines anyway ) .
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
end question
start question
How does a US registered pilot obtain approval to fly to Cuba ?
To obtain approval to fly to Cuba you must first sumbit an application for an OFAC ( Office of Foreign Assets Control ) License through their <URL> website or by mail : Office of Foreign Assets Control U.S. Department of the Treasury Treasury Annex 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue , NW Washington , DC 20220 Once you have your OFAC license , that completes your US legal requirements , as far as I 'm aware . * There are other requirements that you have to fulfill to receive a Cuban visa upon entering , but since you have asked about obtaining US approval I have n't looked into that in detail . For the record , this is the same method that anyone would use to travel to Cuba . Pilots flying to Cuba must ensure that all their passengers also have their own individual OFAC license . * I am not a lawyer . Please do not consider this to be legal advice . I would recommend calling OFAC and inquiring for further help with the process . Sources : <URL> <URL>
The Turbo Dakota ( PA-28-201T ) is very close to what you seem to be describing and is likely much less expensive to buy outright vs. the time and materials required to modify a lowly PA-28-1xx . The published ceiling is FL200 with its TSIO-360 but at light weights * I 'm sure a determined pilot could coax it to FL230 or FL250 . So , the answer is : a big TSIO engine . The 260hp TSIO-470-B ( only TSIO-470 made to my knowledge ) would probably do the trick . A TSIO-520 has taken me to FL250 in a T210 so I know it would probably take a Cherokee at least that high assuming that you successfully attach the engine to the plane ( approvals , engineering , mechanical , W&amp;B , etc ) . * The Dakota is one of the few small single engine planes with a gross weight of more than twice its empty weight leaving plenty of wiggle room for a pilot seeking to extract better than book performance from the plane . ** Answer assumes you have an O2 system that will do the job at FL250 .
After some searching , I found a <URL> from November 19th , 2009 , that reads in part : ( SBU ) SUMMARY : Miami and Havana air traffic controllers signed a letter of agreement ( LOA ) on November 12 updating procedures for the coordination of flights between Cuban and U.S. controlled airspace . Both sides stressed the excellent working relationship between the Miami Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) and the Havana Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The U.S. delegation agreed to review information to be provided by the Cuban delegation regarding flights operating under the rules of " due regard " that could pose a safety risk . Both sides also agreed to discuss switching from verbal to electronic flight data sharing , on the margins of a regional aviation meeting in Miami in May 2010 . END SUMMARY Apparently handoff procedures have been a regular occurrence for a long time , and are cooperated on extensively .
No , nothing addresses that case . Let 's say you 're 20 minutes out from your destination , and because it 's a clear VFR day you have minimum normal reserves -- roughly an hour of flying ( on 2 engines , at medium-to-low altitude ) . Those reserves are already prescribed for you by FAR 's . Now you lose the engine . How long can you fly ? Until you run out of fuel or the other engine quits -- so in all probability , about that same hour , plus or minus . Different case , you 're over at Atlantic heading to Bermuda or the Azores or Iceland or NYC to the Caribbean , or over the Gulf of Mexico -- not ETOPS but a long ways from anywhere . The fuel on board will be lots more , because you were planning for a much longer flight . ( And again , those fuel requirements are defined elsewhere . ) You now have the added twist of drifting down on one engine to a single-engine ceiling -- you set max continuous thrust on the good motor , and descend at a speed that gives you max range , which probably comes out to a few hundred feet per minute of descent . Back in the flight planning , the check had to be performed that at the worst case , you could lose the motor , drift down , and continue to reach a suitable airfield without needing more gas than you 'd have . But in something like a 737 , the gas you 'll have on-board anyway is almost certainly more than sufficient . But in this latter case , the time you can stay aloft is going to be hours -- way beyond what you had in the first case . So no , the regulations do n't prescribe a time that you have to be able to keep flying after losing one engine . You DO have to be able to keep flying -- that 's important -- and you have to have enough fuel to get to a destination with the one motor shut down . But in terms of a prescribed time , that is n't given in the FAR 's .
This list comes from a database query against an ARINC 424 navigation database . The data is <URL> as a raw , computer-readable data file , but it is not human readable , and querying it requires special software not accessible to the typical interested party . I have done the query for you and pasted the results . Note the database does n't distinguish between " NDB RWY XX " and " NDB OR GPS RWY XX " so the titles here may not precisely match what you see on the plate . Time permitting I 'll see if I can update the list ( and note any changes ) using the most up-to-date navigation database . This list is based on an expired ( by 2 months or so ) database . These approaches are dropping like flies .
For tours , call the facility and say you 're interested in aviation , and would like a tour , same as pilots . Depending on the facility , business hour tours are preferred , though others will let you come any time they have available staffing to escort you around . As far as I know , there are no video feed of any ATC facilities .
As a frequent flyer to uncharted airports , I simply use a VOR radial and distance when filing . Usually the approach controllers are familiar with local airports , even infrequent use ones . When in an area where there is no approach facility the center controller may be less familiar with the airport . I normally provide the owner 's phone as a destination contact . While one could use a lat/long coordinate , a radial and dme is easier to communicate . Depending upon what I am doing , sometimes 20 % of my landings are at uncharted airports . One can file VFR and IFR flight plans to them . This does n't specifically address your use of X-plane 11 , but it is intended to describe operations in general aviation in North America , and my less limited experience in South America .
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
Well , I have two answers for you - one personal , and one practical : Personally , as a pilot ( and very occasional airline passenger ) I think anyone operating a drone should be required to get a pilot 's license of some kind . Maybe I 'm just grumpy , but I spent a lot of time cramming the skills and knowledge into my brain that are required to safely operate in the US National Airspace System . It can get pretty complicated and crowded up there , and I think we need the operators of unmanned aircraft to have a thorough understanding of that . The last thing anyone wants is a UAV smacking into a plane because it wandered somewhere it should n't be PRACTICALLY though , it remains to be seen what regulations the FAA will impose for unmanned civil aircraft - they may require a pilot 's certificate ( speculating : In the category and class equivalent to the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle you 'll be operating ) , or they may require a " remote operator 's certificate " of some kind ( perhaps with special emphasis on remote-operation-specific issues like command uplink delay ) , or they may not impose a requirement at all and treat them like model aircraft until the first accident involving one of these things causes a public outcry . <URL> , until the FAA issues a NPRM telling us what they 're thinking of doing here we really wo n't know - your guesses are as good as ours right now . I would suggest at least an Private Pilot Ground School course while you 're gearing up though -- and I would suggest it even if the FAA decides no license is requried for being a UAV operator . The airspace , chart reading , flight planning , and ATC portions of the course are something you 'll probably want to be familiar with ( and are broadly applicable across all kinds of aviation ) , and a good ground school course usually is n't that expensive . ( As to whether you take the knowledge test at the end of the course , that 's up to you -- the results are good for 2 years in case you decide to pursue a pilot certificate , but the test you have to take as a UAV operator may wind up being different from the one you 'd have to take as a private pilot , or may not exist at all , so you might just be setting yourself up for having to take two tests . Again , at this stage your guess would be as good as mine here . )
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
Many helicopters have different flight characteristics , but for general information you can always look in the <URL> , this is from <URL> : This is from a section on the four fundamentals of flight ( straight-and-level , turns , climbs , and descents ) : Anticipate the following characteristics during aggressive maneuvering flight , and adjust or lead with collective as necessary to maintain trim and torque : Left turns , torque increases ( more antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . Right turns , torque decreases ( less antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . So some ( most ) helicopters do require some torque pedal movement for aggressive maneuvering , but the pilot may have anticipated this and added the correction prior to beginning the turn . You may not have noticed as much pedal movement as you would in a coordinated turn for an airplane , or the helicopter you were riding in had different flight characteristics and was not maneuvering aggressively enough to need it . Many helicopters " wind vane " pretty well , that is that they stay aligned with the relative wind at high speed . It could be that the helicopter you were in was travelling at a high enough rate of speed that a large ( or any ) correction was not needed to maintain proper alignment . For an example of how speed cancels out the need for anti-torque control , see <URL> about a helicopter pilot that lost the tail rotor and continued to fly for half an hour to a proper landing site .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
Yes , and it is exactly the same : Say again . Station calling Georgetown Ground say again your callsign Lufthansa 123 say again speed Scandinavian 123 say again all after ' good morning ' Or simply United 345 say again
You must request a <URL> from the <URL> ( Flight Standards District Office ) . You 'll need to fill out <URL> , Application for U.S. Airworthiness , appropriately calling out the reasons you need a SFP ( ferry flight , etc ) . Once the form is submitted , you may be subject to an inspection by an FAA official or representative , verifying that your aircraft is in fact <URL> . Avemco , the insurance company , has <URL> that might be worth an extended read and which I do n't intend to copy here .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
In short , the scheme is as follows : Busier airports get 3-letter identifiers . Less busy public-use airports usually get 2 numbers and a letter , sometimes 1 number and 2 letters . Less busy private airports ( which is almost all private airports ) get 2 letters and 2 numbers . More specifically , the FAA assigns airport identifiers ( and location identifiers in general ) according to the guidance laid out in section 1-2-7 of <URL> . 3 Letter Identifiers For airports , 3-letter identifiers are assigned to airports that meet the following criteria : Airports : ( a ) with a manned air traffic control facility . ( b ) with a navigational aid ( NAVAID ) within airport boundaries . ( c ) that receive scheduled route air carriers . ( d ) that receive military airlift services . ( e ) designated by the U.S. Customs Service as Airports of Entry . or Public use airports commissioning Automated Weather Observations Systems , level III ( AWOS-III ) or higher that have paved runways 5,000 feet or longer . 1 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Most one − number , two − letter identifiers have been assigned to aviation weather reporting and observation stations and special − use locations . Some of these identifiers may be assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : In this identifier series , the number is always in the first position of the three − character combination . For example , 1AD would be a valid code . 2 Number , 1 Letter Identifiers Most one − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : One − letter , two − number identifiers are keyed by the alphabetical letter . The letter may appear in the first , middle or last position in the combination of three characters . For example , 25M , 8M1 , or M72 are all valid codes . 2 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Two − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to private − use landing facilities in the United States and its jurisdictions which do not meet the requirements for three − character assignments . The format of these codes is as follows : They are keyed by the two − letter Post Office or supplemental abbreviation ( listed below ) of the state with which they are associated . The two − letter code appears in the first two , middle , or last two positions of the four − character code . For example , TN01 , 1CA3 , or 50SD would be valid codes . The order continues to list a table of supplemental codes that can be used instead of the state 's mail code . This allows for states whose mailing codes would n't work well as part of the identifier and also for states which need more than the 300 private airport registration codes possible with a given 2-letter sequence in this format . Changes to Existing Identifiers Airport identifiers are preferred to keep the same code once it 's assigned , except in exceptional circumstances . According to section 1-2-4 of the same document : Location identifiers are considered permanent and will not be changed without strong and documented justification , primarily concerning air safety or a significant change of landing facility status . As a result of this , it 's possible for an airport which now meets the qualifications for a 3-letter identifier to still have an identifier containing numbers due to it not having met the requirements for three letters when it was assigned . <URL> is an example of this . It has an AWOS-III and a paved runway longer than 5,000 feet , but still retains the code 8A3 , which was assigned before the runway was lengthened .
You are correct that VOR 's rarely have a range of more than 200 NM . However , Alta Floresta VOR ( ATF ) is colocated with an NDB ( and DME ) . In spite of less accuracy , NDB 's have a much greater range ( partly because their signals can travel as ground waves ) . This makes it possible to have a very long segment on the G678 airway without other navigation aids . When leaving the coverage of Brasília VOR/DME ( BSI ) , you should be able to pick up ATF NDB .
This actually came up <URL> recently -- the answer ( if only the two pilots are on board ) is a qualified " No " , not because the time is n't " compensation " but because the safety pilot is a required crewmember for simulated instrument flight . Since both pilots are required crewmembers the safety pilot is not acting as a PIC of a flight carrying passengers <URL> . ( Note however that while neither pilot is in simulated instrument conditions the safety pilot is not required crew , and therefore someone is PIC of a flight carrying at least one passenger - so log your time carefully and try to wrap your head around a " pro rata share " of that mess . ) This is further addressed ( more directly ) in <URL> . Note that if we 're talking about a flight with more than the two pilots on board ( carrying someone who is NOT a required crewmember , like a friend in the back seat ) then the whole thing goes out the window : No matter who is acting as the Legal PIC for the flight they 're " PIC of a flight carrying passengers " , and you 're back to <URL> territory .
end question
start question
What is the difference between SMOH and SFOH ?
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
Actually , " stay in the pattern " is non-standard phraseology and should n't be used , even though it means the same thing as " <URL> . Specifying the direction is n't required but it is a good idea to ensure that everybody is thinking the same thing .
Look at the sketch of the recommended gear placement relative to the center of gravity ( cg ) from <URL> : We can calculate the load distribution for both extremes . For simplification we use the same angle of 60 ° for the nose wheel in both cases : Main landing gear 6 ° aft of cg : $ \ frac { \ tan 6 ° } { \ tan 60 ° } $ = 6 % Main landing gear 20 ° aft of cg : $ \ frac { \ tan 20 ° } { \ tan 60 ° } $ = 21 % Add some dynamic loading from the application of wheel brakes . In <URL> it is shown that the horizontal braking force is less than 30 % of the maximum static weight of the aircraft , and applying this knowledge to the nose gear at 60 ° from the cg adds 0.3 $ \ cdot \ cos 60 ° $ = 15 % of the maximum static load of a fully loaded aircraft to the nose gear load . In extreme cases the nose gear would carry almost half of the aircraft mass , but then rotation would be impossible . In case of the Go-229 it was 45 % . <URL> Semi-finished Go-229 V3 ( picture <URL> ) On the other extreme you find nose gears with zero static load which were only intended for taking the braking forces . <URL> Zeppelin Staaken R VI ( picture <URL> )
Here 's an engine with old combustor cans : <URL> Here 's a single annular combustor : <URL> And in cross section : <URL> And now here 's a dual annular combustor ( DAC ) ( <URL> ) in cross section : <URL> See how it 's like one ring ( or donut ) inside another ring . <URL> " like an annular combustor , the DAC is a continuous ring without separate combustion zones around the radius . The difference is that the combustor has two combustion zones around the ring ; a pilot zone and a main zone . The pilot zone acts like that of a single annular combustor , and is the only zone operating at low power levels . At high power levels , the main zone is used as well , increasing air and mass flow through the combustor . "
Published waypoints are waypoints that appear on the charts and in the published navigation databases used by GPS navigators or FMSes . They are referenced using the published identifier for the waypoint . Examples : TPA , ITAWT . Unpublished waypoints are waypoints created by the pilot . FMS allow for the creation/entry of a waypoint by the pilot . The waypoint is defined by one of the following : Latitude/Longitude Place/Bearing/Distance Place-Bearing/Place-Bearing The pilot-defined waypoint can then be added to the flight plan . Here 's a snip of how a waypoint is defined in an A320 : <URL> As to when you would use it , the short answer is when you need to or want to . A common example would be to deviate a short distance off an airway ( maybe 5 or 10 nm ) to avoid a temporary flight restriction . You would just want to avoid the restricted airspace and using a published waypoint or waypoints would take you farther off your route than necessary .
Here is Boeing 's Examples Block numbers ZA001 Onwards - B787-8 ZB001 Onwards - B787-9 ZC001 Onwards - B787-10 ZD001 Onwards - rebuild of prototypes Line numbers are the serial number of the aircraft of that aircraft type Serial Number is the manufacturers serial ( basically the number of aircraft they have built up to that aircraft ) Airbus does n't use the Boeing Line/Serial numbers , they use a different system where the aircraft serial number is in fact the aircraft line number and the total # of the aircraft being built .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
Generally speaking a checklist is an actual list of items to check , and a flow is a pattern of movement across the aircraft controls ( switches , dials , etc. ) which will accomplish some subset of the items on a checklist . A flow should be essentially " muscle memory " for a pilot and performed by rote , where a checklist may be more detailed and include more specific guidance . As you can probably tell flows and checklists are closely related ( with flows usually being derived from checklists ) . The two are complimentary tools that are used together : A pilot will follow a flow , and then verify that the required items have been completed using the checklist . In larger/more complicated aircraft it 's not possible to fully memorize some of the checklists , so flows are used to accomplish the " red box " immediate action items before proceeding to the full checklist . As a simple example , consider the engine power loss flow &amp; checklist for a Piper Cherokee . Engine Power Loss Flow ( Red Arrow &amp; Numbers ) Mixture ( Set appropriately - usually " Rich " ) Throttle ( Set appropriately ) Carb Heat / Alternate Air ( On ) Magnetos ( Both ) Electric Fuel Pump ( On ) Primer ( In &amp; Locked ) Fuel Selector ( On a tank that has fuel ) Manufacturer 's Engine Power Loss Checklist ( Blue Numbers ) Fuel Selector - Switch to a tank containing fuel . Electric Fuel Pump - On Mixture - Rich Carb Heat - On Engine Gauges - Check for an indication of the cause of power loss Primer - Check Locked . If no fuel pressure is indicated check tank selector position to be sure it is on a tank containing fuel . Ignition Switch - " Left " then " Right " then back to " BOTH . " Throttle and Mixture - Different settings . ( This may restore power if problem is too rich or too lean a mixture , or a partial fuel system restriction . ) Try another fuel tank . ( Water in the fuel could take some time to be used up , and allowing the engine to windmill may restore power . If power loss is due to water , fuel pressure indications will be normal . ) <URL> In this example the flow accomplishes nearly all the checklist items , but it does so moving over the panel in one direction . As a practical matter the flow is accomplished by just moving your hand along the bottom of the panel : " Push the mixture . Push the throttle . Pull the carb heat . Twist the mag key . Flip all the switches UP ( on ) . Pull the primer and make sure it does n't move . Move the fuel selector lever to the other tank . " Completing the flow takes less than 10 seconds and can be done with one hand while your other hand is pitching for best glide speed . The manufacturer 's checklist for an engine power loss moves around the panel in a more haphazard way , but it also adds a few items ( checking the engine gauges &amp; fuel pressure indication ) , and provides more specific guidance on possible causes like fuel contamination ( water in the fuel ) &amp; how to deal with them . These items could be important if the memory items from the flow do n't restore engine power , assuming you have time ( altitude ) to spend troubleshooting them .
From <URL> : Air carrier means a person who undertakes directly by lease , or other arrangement , to engage in air transportation . Commercial operator means a person who , for compensation or hire , engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property , other than as an air carrier or foreign air carrier or under the authority of Part 375 of this title . Where it is doubtful that an operation is for " compensation or hire " , the test applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person 's other business or is , in itself , a major enterprise for profit . To make this more clear <URL> says : 2-128 TYPES OF CERTIFICATES UNDER PART 119 . There are two , basic types of air operator certificates ( AOC ) issued to U.S. applicants who will conduct operations in common carriage . See Table 2-4 , Certification for a summary of certificate requirements . A . An Air Carrier Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct interstate , foreign , or overseas transportation , or to carry mail . B . An Operating Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct intrastate transportation . From your perspective it is n't a too important distinction . As a commercial pilot all that matters to you is that both air carriers and commercial operators need to have operating certificates . As a commercial pilot you can be hired by someone who has an operating certificate but you can not provide the same services on your own unless you yourself have an operating certificate ( e.g. a charter operator can hire you , but you can not operate a charter service ) . As a commercial pilot you can be paid to act as PIC and can engage in the commercial operations that are excepted from operating certificates in <URL> . You can not act as either an air carrier or a commercial operator without complying with 14 CFR 119 , which requires that you have an operating certificate .
The 777-31H is a standard Boeing 777-300 manufactured for Emirates ( customer code 1H ) . The 777-31H ( ER ) is a Boeing 777-300ER ( Extended Range ) again for Emirates . Compared to the standard 777-300 , the 777-300ER has : A longer range due to the extra fuel it can carry ( 145538 kg compared to 135880 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Operating Empty Weight ( 167829 kg compared to 159570 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Maximum Take-Off Weight ( 351535 kg compared to 299370 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher maximum structural payload weight ( 69853 kg compared to 64960 kg for the -300 baseline ) A wider wingspan ( 64.80 compared to 60.93 m ) A different engine delivering more thrust The Boeing 777-300ER is always equipped with General Electric GE90-115BL1 engines , while the baseline -300 can be ordered with four different engine models from General Electric , Pratt &amp; Whitney or Rolls Royce . The Emirates Boeing 777-300 aircraft have the Rolls Royce RR Trent 892 engines installed . They deliver 415 kN of thrust , almost 100 kN less than the GE90-115BL1 engines .
The short answer is that the privileges are what the rating confers , and there are ways to get those privileges other than having the rating . A commercial pilot licensee in most jurisdictions that follow ICAO certification guidelines may fly small planes for hire , doing service as a courier , air taxi , crop duster , etc. . These do not necessarily require flying in IMC or in Class A airspace , and so a CPL holder must also have a separate " instrument rating certification " in order to fly IFR . ATPL licensees fly in Class A as a matter of course , and that also often requires ascending and descending through the cloud ceiling which is IMC by definition . Therefore , the requirements for an ATPL in ICAO-compliant jurisdictions inherently include those required for the " instrument rating " applied separately to lower certification levels ( private/commercial ) , and the resulting license for an airline pilot confers the same " instrument privileges " that the rating would . Thus the difference in terminology ; an ATPL holder in another country has " instrument privileges " as a consequence of his basic license and so does not need a specific " instrument rating " . The same is not true for CPLs and so the law specifically requires the instrument rating as a prereq for a foreign CPL seeking an FAA ATPL .
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
Thanks to mins 's link , the <URL> explains everything in detail . To summarise the particular part I was asking about : FG on its own means fog ( visibility < 1000 m ) covers more than half of the horizon PRFG and BCFG are fog covering less than half of the horizon PRFG ( fog bank ) is more extensive than BCFG ( fog patches ) Another way of looking at it is like cloud cover descriptors . FG is like BKN or OVC : more than half the horizon is covered . PRFG is SCT , and then BCFG is FEW . All the above are used when the temperature is above freezing point and the fog reaches more than 2 metres above ground . If the fog is only below 2 metres agl , it 's shallow fog MIFG instead . If the temperature is below freezing , so the fog consists of supercooled water droplets , it 's freezing fog FZFG .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
Normally the relation is <URL> used in flight . However , the Mach number and the Reynolds number will cause shifts . For the Mach effect , use the Prandtl-Glauert rule in subsonic flow up to Mach 0.7 : $ $ ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { Mach } = ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { incompressible } \ cdot \ sqrt { 1-Mach ^ 2 } $ $ A higher <URL> means a relatively thinner boundary layer , and since the boundary layer on the suction side of the airfoil grows in thickness with increasing angle of attack , the same airfoil will have less boundary layer growth at a higher Reynolds number . This translates into a higher effective angle of attack at the same geometrical angle , so the lift curve slope becomes steeper and will reach stall at a higher angle . There are no standard conditions , but a proper lift curve graph should note both the Mach and Reynolds number for which it is valid .
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
Generally when GA pilots talk about climb performance we speak of two different airspeed values : Best Rate of Climb speed ( Vy ) gets you the most altitude per unit time ( feet per minute ) . When you want to get to cruise altitude quickly for maximum efficiency you 'll aim for the best rate of climb so you spend the least time at lower , less efficient altitudes . Best Angle of Climb speed ( Vx ) gets you the greatest altitude per unit of ground distance ( feet per mile ) . When you 've got a FAA-Standard 50-foot-tree at the departure end of the runway you 'll aim for the best angle of climb to ensure you do n't wind up in the tree . Those speeds are useful to us as pilots , but the exact rate of climb ( feet-per-minute ) for those speeds will vary : A fully loaded plane will climb more slowly than one that 's just got the pilot and a few gallons of fuel on board , and that 's where the " maximum rate of climb " enters into the discussion : Maximum rate of climb is the number of feet per minute you can get climbing at the " best rate of climb " airspeed . If someone is being sloppy in their usage " Maximum Rate of Climb " could mean " Best Rate of Climb " ( pitch for Vy and you get what you get ) , but if you 're being precise in your usage and really talking about the rate of climb it would mean <URL> in feet per minute based on the current conditions and aircraft weight . Maximum rate of climb under a given set of conditions is useful information to know if you need to clear terrain at some point on your flight path and want to be sure you can climb fast enough to do so : If you 're starting from sea level and need to clear a 5000 foot mountain that 's 5 minutes away but your plane ca n't manage more than 500 feet per minute at best-rate-of-climb speed under the current conditions you 'll need to reconsider your flight plan to either avoid the mountain or climb in a circle somewhere until you can clear it .
A Line Replaceable Unit is a piece of hardware that can be exchanged for a replacement part in a relatively short time by only opening and closing fasteners and connectors . You will find the term LRU in avionics but also in ATC hardware . Examples are FMC , transponder , etc. . When you have a complex avionics system you tend to end up with a great variety of LRUs . All these LRU have a very specific function . To be able to quickly replace malfunctioning parts , maintenance needs to keep a large stock of spares for all these LRU 's . The Integrated Modular Avionics concept attempts to reduce the variety of LRU 's by designing the avionics with common components . E.g. one type of power supply , one type of memory unit , one type of processing board and only a few variations of input/output modules . This reduces the number of replacement parts needed to be kept on stock . The LRUs of IMA have more generic functions than in a traditional avionics system .
end question
start question
How do they quickly replace the pylons after a hit during the Red Bull Air Races ?
The 25m tall asymmetrical pylons used in Red bull air races are made of 9 different sections , which are connected with zippers for easy removal and installation . In this image , you can see the multiple sections that make up the pylon . <URL> Interior of redbull air race pylons ; image from <URL> Airgators Team Captain , Holger Leprich , who is responsible for replacing the pylons after a hit , explains the procedure <URL> . The pylons are held up using air pressure - electronically controlled equipment at the bottom of the pylon creates a positive air pressure so that the pylon stands upright . For each competition , there are three five member pylon replacement teams ( called Airgators ) to ensure quick replacement - their current record being 67 sec . The pylon is designed to tear off in case of a hit . Once the pylon is hit , the team moves to the damaged pylons location on clearance from the race director . Once the team reaches there , a couple of guys control the electronic equipment ( and deflate the pylon , if required ) at the bottom of the pylon , while another two replace the damaged parts - they simply unzip the damaged part and zip in the new one , while the last one checks the pylon . Once the replacement is completed , the team inflates the pylon . Mission accomplished .
My question is , when there 's no defined cloud layer , what is considered " cloud " and what is n't ? If the minima require you to stay 500 feet below clouds , where exactly is that ? With metars showing no ceiling how do you know where it is safe to fly and where there might be an ifr flight descending that ca n't see you ? The FAA defines clouds in AC-006B A cloud is a visible aggregate of minute water droplets and/or ice particles in the atmosphere above the Earth 's surface . Fog differs from cloud only in that the base of fog is at the Earth 's surface while clouds are above the surface . Clouds are like signposts in the sky that provide information on air motion , stability , and moisture . Clouds help pilots visualize weather conditions and potential weather hazards . However legally and practically speaking you can fly as high as you like if there are no clouds provided you can maintain situational awareness and proper cloud clearances from any adjacent clouds ( <URL> ) . There are a few practical limits to this . First off Class A airspace starts at FL180 so you cant fly above 18,000 Ft. without being on an IFR flight plan since you cant fly VFR into class A. Further more , since you seem to be asking about small aircraft , you will more than likely be limited by your airframes maximum altitude before hitting the Class A limit . You will also need O2 onboard to fly above 12,500 ft. The risk of a descending aircraft above you is always a concern be it VFR or IFR flying as they generally cant see below them and you cant always see above you when flying . In many cases the IFR flight will have some help from ATC who will see you on radar even if you are flying VFR and squawking 1200 on your transponder .
The Airman Certification Standards ( ACS ) is basically an ' enhanced ' version of the Practical Test Standards ( PTS ) . According to <URL> , It ( ACS ) adds task-specific knowledge and risk management elements to each PTS Area of Operation and Task . In general , while the PTS concentrates on what the applicant must ' do ' , the ACS specifies what he/she must ' know ' and ' consider ' ( in addition to the ' do ' part ) to qualify for a given airman certificate or rating . The differences ( in draft ) are shown in this slide . <URL> Image from Update on the ACS by FAA According to the FAA briefing , • The " skills " section of the ACS covers the flight proficiency performance metrics in today 's PTS . • For each PTS Area of Operation/Task , the ACS lists the elements of aeronautical knowledge that support that skill . • In addition , for each PTS Area of Operation/Task , the ACS lists the risk management elements or behaviors associated with it . The ACS is still under development , but FAA is targeting a June 2016 implementation ( for airplane ) depending on results of prototype ( there is one running at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University ) and some other factors .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
According to <URL> Airliners.net forum post , The masks are deployed automatically ( typically when cabin altitude exceeds 14,000 feet ) , or can be deployed manually from the flight deck . In addition , if a passenger service unit oxygen door should fail to open , cabin crew can open the PSU door ( either inserting a flat object or a special tool depending on the aircraft type ) manually . So basically , the masks are deployed automatically based on sensors , with manual deployment as a primary failsafe and physical access as a secondary failsafe .
Well , sort of . The Kennedy Space Center , where the shuttle operations were conducted , <URL> . but then , the show was run by NASA , not FAA . The shuttle operations were coordinated through the Aerospace Control Officer ( ACO ) at the Air Force 45 th Space Wing 's Eastern Range ( it used a military TACAN ) . FAA was informed of the shuttle landing and nothing else . NASA simply cleared the airspace for a 30 mile radius around the intended landing site to prevent collisions . In the trajectory of the shuttle landing , FAA issued a NOTAM called ' Space Shuttle Landing Operations Advisory ' to warn the users that 25 miles to either side of the nominal reentry trajectory is potentially vulnerable to debris , but the airspace is not closed , like this example : FDC 9/1945 ( A0856/09 ) - ... SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS ADVISORY ... EFFECTIVE 0911271848 UTC UNTIL 0911271923 UTC SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS 25 NM EITHER SIDE OF THE LINE BETWEEN 2743S/17214W 0411N/16214W 2925N/13455W 3440N/11828W 3457N/11745W FROM SURFACE TO UNLIMITED . WIE UNTIL UFN . CREATED : 25 NOV 21:11 2009 For these actions , Special Use Airspace was activated . The ACO coordinates these actions with the FAA 's ARTCC ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) in Miami , Florida
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
The airspace around the world is divided into sectors within a <URL> ( FIR ) / Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) / <URL> ( ACC ) , which range from very small and tight airspace pieces to larger combinations or enroute sectors . Enroute sectors will usually be larger than <URL> ( TMA ) . During peak-hours , these sectors will be handled by one controller responsible for each sector . If capacity and traffic flow permit , these sectors can be combined and two sectors will be handled by the same controller . Below is a picture of the Paderborn Lower Sector , ranging from GND to FL135 . This is usually a stand-alone sector which only covers approaches to Paderborn ( EDLP ) and Dortmund Airports ( EDLW ) . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) If traffic permits , the adjacent sector Hamm Lower from GND to FL115 , handling arrivals and departures to Münster ( EDDG ) , will be handed over to the controller responsible for Paderborn Lower . This can also be done vice-versa , where the Hamm Lower controller becomes responsible for the Paderborn Lower sector . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) TMA controllers not only handle IFR aircraft approaching or departing from airfields within their sector , but also any enroute traffic crossing the sector , VFR traffic requesting to cross airspaces which require prior permission and other tasks . <URL> , controllers take breaks between working their sectors and sometimes often switch sectors during a shift . A controller working Paderborn Lower during the beginning of his shift can end up working Hamm Lower towards the end of his shift with adequate breaks in between their sessions . See this related question : <URL>
In a jet engine using the <URL> , number 4 is the station numbering of combustor exit/turbine nozzle guide vane leading edge , and T4 is the temperature at this station . <URL> ( <URL> ) From this document ( in French ) : <URL> which is a thesis by Elodie Roux , this table on page 198 : <URL> tells us the T4 temperature is 1633 K , that is 1360 ° C.
I like to show people videos of <URL> These videos show that wind does not have an effect on how well the aircraft stays in the air - no matter how strong it is , it only effects the path taken over the ground . A steady wind makes zero difference to the aerodynamics , whether it is a piper cub or a 747 . The aircraft does n't know what the wind is doing - comparable to you closing your eyes while floating on a smooth flowing river , you would n't think you are moving . The stated crosswind limit is only for landing , when you need to be able to fly in a straight line with precision . I think the big thing you 're forgetting is that the wind correction angle is affected by the true airspeed ( TAS ) . The faster the TAS , the less correction is needed for the same wind . Think about it , if you are travelling forward at a faster velocity , it will take a bigger force to knock you off course . 737s have a TAS of about 400-450kts , so whilst a 150kt wind is strong , it 's not all that different to a 30kt wind in a GA aircraft . 99 % of the time there will be a crosswind component of some kind , but the method of correction for jets is no different to GA - just point the noise into wind as per your calculations . Back to flying backwards for a minute . The only safety issue would be if the wind were to suddenly stop . The aircraft indicated airspeed would suddenly be 0 and a potentially unrecoverable stall could develop . But one thing many ' ground dwellers ' do n't appreciate is that the wind - in fair weather - is actually fairly constant when it is not effected by ground obstacles and friction . Generally speaking , the higher you go , the more steady and predictable the wind will be .
Of course gear doors create drag when open . The question is " how much ? " As you suspect , door drag is not the critical factor here . As usual the answer to your question is aircraft-specific , and your question is pointing to a generalized " old wive 's tale " which is only true sometimes . OK , what is the story behind the story ? <URL> . Watch the main gear as it enters/exits the storage wells in the fuselage . The axles of the wheels are close to parallel to the direction of flight , which means the wheels are being dragged broadside in the slipstream . A very high drag scenario which will affect aircraft performance . The POH recommendation is ( from memory , now ) to climb over critical obstacles on takeoff with the gear down , and raise the gear only when the obstacle is cleared . The attached video shows why . This advice does not pertain to all planes . Know your plane , read the POH . Oh ... and ask questions here !
It would chop it <URL> . Watch the video . It 's fun . When the helicopter pitches up right after refueling , the rotor disc can not follow the movement ( its hinges allow the blades to pitch up and down , and inertia makes it change its plane of rotation only slowly ) . The refueling probe is cut cleanly in half . However , I would not try this on purpose . The risk of damaging a blade is considerable . I am sure the rotor blades needed to be replaced after that incident .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
The altimeter works by measurements of the pressure in undisturbed air , also called static pressure . A static port is placed , usually on the side of the hull , perpendicular to the airflow . During a spin , the airflow will not flow evenly past the static port , but will occasionally flow directly onto the static port . This will cause a rise in measured pressure , leading the altimeter to believe it is lower than it actually is . This cause fluctuations in the indicated altitude .
It says it <URL> : 1-1-8 . Navigational Aid ( NAVAID ) Service Volumes c. Standard Service Volume limitations do not apply to published IFR routes or procedures . So V267 has been flown at the MEA by an FAA plane , and it obviously met the signal accuracy requirements to be usable at the distances charted .
Most de-icers are run by the airport FBO so the people who work on de-icing in the winter work on other FBO duties such as refueling and the like when there is no de-icing to do . Some de-icers are just hired permanently for winter times .
They <URL> hot compressed air from inside the jet engines , cool it down and pass it into the cabin . There are outlet valves in the fuselage that allow stale air out and which control cabin pressure and air-refresh rates . A few aircraft types , such as the 787 , now use a compressor to take in air from under the aircraft . They do this because it can be more fuel-efficient ( not for any other reason ) . It is arguable whether it creates an additional fire hazard . See also <URL> <URL> <URL>
You stay vigilant by having seen things go wrong . <URL> the importance of a proper preflight is drilled into you by your primary instructor from day one in light aircraft , and that mentality carries through all the way up to heavy transport-category aircraft : You want to find any problems you can while you 're on the ground , because if you take a problem into the air with you it 's a decision you can quickly come to regret . Personally I 've found all sorts of " interesting " things on preflight inspections of light aircraft , including ( but not limited to ) : Mud wasps building a nest in the pitot tube Mud wasps building a nest in the fuel drain ( still do n't know what was up with that ) Missing screws from a fairing Flat-spot on a tire A tennis ball stuffed in between two cylinders ( a common flight instructor trick to see if students are doing a thorough preflight ) Position light lenses installed backwards ( another common CFI trick , but this one was actually a maintenance shop screw-up ) Various light bulbs burned out Water in the fuel after a heavy storm . I 've also heard some scary stories : Migrating colony of bees hanging out on the tail of the aircraft ( described as " The tail was literally dripping bees " ) Flight controls rigged backwards Big gouge in the wingtip ( acquired by the previous pilot scraping the tip against another plane 's tail taxiing in on the ramp ) The ever-classic " ran out of fuel because you did n't visually check the tanks "
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
The valves will not be able to maintain cabin pressure until the plane descends to 10,000 feet at best glide speed . The oxygen masks will deploy before then . At least that was the case for <URL> , an A332 that ran out of fuel over the Atlantic and glided to a deadstick landing . The <URL> on page 96 ( see the table ) estimates that oxygen masks deployed at 06:37:50 , when the cabin altitude reached 13,500 ft. This was about 11.5 minutes after fuel exhaustion , and only 7-8 minutes before landing at 06:45 . So they would have landed within the 10 minutes of supplemental oxygen . Even a much longer glide would have allowed them to descend below 10,000 ft before the supplemental oxygen stopped . TSC 236 is AFAIK the longest glide in a transport category aircraft to date , so if they did not " encounter a situation where they have to choose between oxygen and best glide " ( to use your phrasing ) , then probably no one else did either . Note : The report used the ' worst case ' leak rate of 700 ft/min for their calculation . The footnotes explain that the leak rate would decrease as the aircraft descended ( because the pressure differential between the cabin and the outside would decrease as the aircraft descended ) . If anyone is interested , there is more info on pages 28-29 of the report about the cabin pressurization .
end question
start question
Is there a way to avoid exhaust fumes when landing ?
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
Obviously , putting publically-accessible areas within an airport 's apron , taxiways , or runway environments is normally avoided as much as possible . However , sometimes space constraints do n't give you another option . As Federico mentioned in a comment , <URL> is a famous example of this . A major city street runs right through the center of the runway : Gibraltar International Airport 's runway with traffic on the street stopped for BA aircraft In this case , the runway runs the entire width of the peninsula . Obviously , they had to allow traffic to pass back and forth from one side to the other somehow , so one of the main city streets passes right through the middle of the runway and they just stop traffic on the street when the runway is in use . Of course , another way to solve this problem is to do what <URL> and <URL> ( and probably several others ) have done and just send the road through a tunnel under the runway . I 'm not sure how feasible that would be at Gibraltar 's low elevation , though ( i.e. might have water problems in the tunnel . ) Murfreesboro Road passing underneath Runway 2C/20C , Nashville International Airport Interstate 285 passing underneath Runway 10/28 , Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport I would expect that the main reason where you have situations like the one in Gibraltar is probably economics . For low-traffic airports , it 's a lot easier to just stop the traffic than to build a big tunnel capable of supporting a large aircraft . For higher-traffic airports ( like Nashville and , especially , Atlanta , ) though , the tunnel is required as there are flights landing or taking off constantly ( not to mention the security and safety risks of having cars driving around within the airport . ) According to <URL> , Gibraltar International only has about 10 flights per day ( 3,564 total in 2013 , ) so it 's manageable to just close the road when the runway is in use . I expect other airports with these sorts of crossings will be similarly low-traffic airports ( or , at least , a low-traffic part of the airport . )
Avoid rotating the propeller through a compression of one of the cylinders . You can easily rotate the propeller in either direction safely about 45 degrees before you feel a cylinder in compression . If you want to pull the propeller completely through a compression stroke you must be prepared for it to snap around after reaching the top of the compression stroke and that is how you must have whacked your knee . Normally after an engine shutdown the mixture is pulled to idle cutoff which would prevent fuel reaching the cylinders . Also if procedures are followed the magnetos that generate ignition sparks should be off after the end of a flight . So in theory it should be safe to pull the propeller thru during preflight . But still you need to consider that it is not completely without some small risk that the engine could start simply because humans make errors and machines can need maintenance .
The short answer is , when the surrounding environment requires it . The procedure here is perhaps most akin to a short field take off over a 50 ft obstacle but a few things are going on . The aircraft , as soon as it leaves the ground is climbing at <URL> . Vx is the speed for best angle of climb while Vy is the speed for best rate of climb . In your linked video its mostly for show . In practice short field over a 50ft obstacle takeoffs are used for , well , short fields ... or when you need to get off the ground fast so as to get over some obstacle at the end of the runway . Generally speaking most commercial airports have long runways that are more or less obstacle free ( <URL> ) so short field maneuvers are not what they are in general aviation . There are lots of small fields all over the country that have trees ( also known as 50 foot obstacles ) power lines , buildings , church steeples or any manner of obstacle at the end of the runway . On top of that many of these strips are on the shorter side ( under 3000 ft. ) so you simply have less runway to work with and your margins can be far smaller . <URL> It is the pilots responsibility to operate the aircraft safely and these kinds of maneuvers are well within operating limitations . In small planes they happen more often than you would think , especially if <URL> . and even us lowly private pilots are trained in short field 50ft obstacle clearance maneuvers . As for the big guys if the airport environment calls for it , it may be performed but I would think it is less common as most commercial airliners can pitch up far more than people in the back would be happy with . Someone with more commercial experience may be able to elaborate on how often they happen in practice there . There are a few things to keep in mind as well , military planes simply have a much higher thrust to weight ratio than commercial airliners and can in some cases sustain vertical climb outs . Military jets also often have afterburners for an added boost . The commercial planes you see in the linked video are more than likely lightly loaded carrying only a partial fuel load . <URL>
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
All of NYC 's airspace is crowded , so there 's no escaping that ! :) The controllers are very friendly and accommodating though , so do n't be afraid . If they 're curt , it 's just to keep everyone safe . As for airports , there are 4 GA airport options you 're most likely gon na consider : KLDJ in Linden , NJ . It 's a 5m cab ride to the train station into the city . Uncontrolled field , tons of news helicopters based here . It 's pretty cheap ( around $ 20/night if I recall ) and fairly convenient , but the uncontrolled field is under an 800 ' Class B shelf at Newark and could be stressful . Expect very bare bones facilities - you can get fuel , but there 's no terminal building to speak of . KTEB in Teterboro , NJ is the GA airport for most jets that come into the city . It 's the closest airport to midtown , and you 'll pay a very pretty penny here , tie-downs are at least \ $ 50/night , and fuel will be around \ $ 9/gallon . This is a hectic option , but it has a tower and is close to the city , so for a quick overnight stop without fuel it may be the best option . Expect to be the only piston on the ramp . KFRG in Farmingdale , NY ( Long Island ) . Very busy GA airport abuzz with training . Pretty cheap ( ~ $ 15/night tiedowns ) , but did I mention that it 's busy ? You may burn up 1h of hobbes time on the ground waiting to take off if you depart during peak times . You can catch a cab to LIRR which will get you into the city . KHPN , in White Plains , NY . Mix of GA , training , and a couple commercial carriers like JetBlue . Prety cheap ( $ ~ 20/night tiedowns ) and a short hop away from Metro-North which will have you in the city in about 30 minutes . Controlled field , at 2500 ' below the Class B shelf . Fairly busy , but certainly managable with the top notch controllers working NY 's airspace . Whichever airport you choose to go to , absolutely get flight following or file IFR . All of the towers in the area expect you to be handed off from NY Approach and will not be happy if you call them directly out of the blue .
A VNAV with localiser approach is normally a backup to a regular ILS should there be a glide slope unserviceability . The use of VNAV to manage the vertical portion of the approach would allow the use of APV minima which are normally lower than using a vertical speed mode . VNAV is a better mode when conducting non-precision approaches as the aircraft is still following a defined glideslope - albeit derived from a database - which is more accurate than trying to follow a tabled set of heights and distances using vertical speed .
There is no single formula - the number of factors to consider are too numerous and the load cases are too diverse . Here is an incomplete list : Directional stability : Depending on fuselage size and shape , the tail must be sized to pull the aircraft into the wind direction . The fuselage is destabilising in yaw and the tail is needed to counteract that . Depending on factors like <URL> , some of that stabilisation can be <URL> of the airframe . In multi-engined aircraft : Yaw from <URL> . If one engine fails , the fin must be large enough to create an equal but opposite yawing moment to that of the still running engine on the other side . Multi-engined aircraft have a <URL> below which directional control with one engine inoperative is lost . In high aspect ratio designs : Counteract <URL> . When ailerons are deflected and the aircraft rolls , the direction of lift on the side with the trailing-edge-up aileron tilts forward and vice versa . This horizontal lift component creates an undesired yawing moment that the tail needs to neutralize . This effect varies with speed , so if you want good low-speed maneuverability , this load case determines vertical tail size ( mostly of gliders ) . Dutch roll damping : Sometimes static stability in yaw is not sufficient and <URL> sizes the tail . Maximum flight Mach number : At high Mach , the upper side of the plane flies in less dense air and a traditional vertical tail <URL> . Here a ventral tailfin can help to reduce tail size considerably . Add to this the fact that the destabilizing effect of the fuselage increases with sideslip angle and the fact that the vertical tail as the higher aspect ratio surface of the two will reach its maximum lift first and suffer a noticeable decrease in effectiveness at larger sideslip angles . Now details like a <URL> are needed to maintain tail effectiveness at high sideslip angles . Finally , it depends which of the load cases is sizing your tail , and that can be determined by factors like fuselage length . Tail effectiveness for directional control grows linearly with fuselage length and for yaw damping with the square of fuselage length . If you want to fly the same tail on fuselages of different length ( like most airliner models do ) , your tail might be sized by a different load case on a different aircraft than the one it is mounted on . If you want to fly low and fast , it might be that the loads on the vertical <URL> that the efficiency of the vertical tail is greatly reduced . In that case it does not help to make the tail bigger , instead ventral fins must be added . Now you need not only to look at the best tail size but at the best overall tail configuration as well .
If an invalid signal is received , then it must be modulated since it is only by measuring the modulation , that the receiver knows if the signal is valid and where it is relative to the localiser and glideslope . An unmodulated carrier on the same frequency is additive . An unmodulated carrier on a different frequency will not affect the receiver ( ignoring possible harmonics of course ) . I suppose that if you could increase the power enough , an unmodulated signal might cause the signal to noise ratio to drop so low that the failure flag would show .
In case of air to air refueling , the ' receiver ' ( the aircraft being refueled ) should be careful about not getting into the wake of the tanker , which is usually much larger and heavy . For example , the NATO air-to-air refueling manual , <URL> : The area of extreme turbulence directly behind and slightly to the right of the tanker should be avoided . Blade stall and uncontrolled settling may be encountered if this area is entered . The receiving plane is usually flown below the wake turbulence of the tanker , in both the hose &amp; drogue and flying boom methods . Usually , the receiver is directly behind and around 10 ' below the tanker . For example , see <URL> In addition to turbulence , in case of close formation flying , there are other things to contend with , as explained in <URL> : In addition to the trailing air vortices the receiving aircraft must contend with downwash of airﬂow from the tanker . The affected local airﬂow typically exhibits a nose-down pitching moment on the receiver which , in turn , affects its speed and approach rate . Not only the receiver , the tanker should also be careful about flow disturbances . ... mostly between large transport aircraft , the lead aircraft experiences a change in its airﬂow caused by the bow wave , or upwash , from the receiver . This increases the angle of attack around the tanker 's tail which also results in a pitch-down motion . Under-running the tanker is particularly dangerous since the downwash effect will dissipate , resulting in the receiver pitching up . At the same time a tanker on altitude hold may instigate a nose-down pitch due to a perceived climb due to the decrease in pressure in the surrounding air , potentially leading to collision . The figure below shows some regions where disturbances would be encountered aft of a tanker . <URL> Typical spanwise airﬂow disturbances from a trailing tanker wake. ; image from <URL> by Peter . R. Thomas et . al. . In addition , the trailing aircraft should also be careful about the jet exhaust .
If I attempt to continue maintaining the flare , attempting to come to a stop , I will sink and if I do n't do anything about it , I will hit the ground . Why ? if you continue to maintain aft cyclic after the flare , you will hit the ground because some of the lift which is being generated will be used to fly the helicopter backwards , and you wo n't have enough power in to both maintain altitude and also maintain backwards flight ( which is what you are commanding with aft cyclic ) . This is why we level off after the flare : to use all the lift in the vertical direction . Its the exact opposite of take-off : if you are in a hover on the runway , and push the nose over to the 60KIAS nose-down attitude , you will descend into the runway . Although I have never tried it , I imagine that at the peak of the flare , if I add ( a lot ? ) of power without changing the attitude ( much :) , I will not descend into the runway , but rather I will start to fly backwards .
This answer will be quite anecdotal ( I have not seen a survey on the question ) . It will answer the question for " most people I 've worked with " , and for " my " aircraft ( B737NG ) . Also , the usual disclaimer : different airlines/aircraft manufacturers may have different SOPs/instructions/limitations . Consult your manuals . In general : most pilots will leave FD on , IF it still provides useful and reliable information , without being an obstruction/nuisance ( i.e. when configuring it to give correct guidance would be more trouble than it 's worth , given that you already have visual references ) . This philosophy is also usually what you 'll find in an airline SOP , but in more formal language . I 'll try to provide some examples ( non-exhaustive ) to illustrate this depending on how you were set up before being cleared for the visual approach : ILS to straight in landing Leave the FD on until landing ( on my aircraft , B737NG , it will disappear at 50 ft RA ) , both localizer and glideslope will give usable and reliable information to the FD . ( Caveat : in visual conditions , ATC might be less strict about avoiding signal interference . They might for instance let an aircraft on the ground taxi to cross your runway while you 're on approach , which could cause localizer/glideslope interference ) . ILS to sidestep Most would turn the FD 's off . Both localizer guidance and glideslope guidance will be to the " wrong " runway . The FD is likely to be more of a nuisance than a useful tool . Non-ILS approaches with no centerline offset The Localizer/LNAV path will give good lateral guidance to the FD . The vertical guidance will depend on the approach and your equipment . If the aircraft generates a good quality vertical path , which crosses the runway threshold at a reasonable height ( 50 ft ) , there is no real good reason to turn the FD 's off . If all you have is vertical speed ( V/S ) guidance , it might be more helpful to turn FD 's off . Non-ILS approaches with centerline offset ( for example most VOR approaches ) At some point during the approach , you 'll want to abandon the approach course , and line up with the runway . Where this point occurs depends on specific approach , and how you intend to fly it . Example : A VOR approach to runway 36 ( runway heading 000 ) might use a VOR 1 nm east of the runway with inbound course 005 . You might want to stay on the inbound course of the VOR until it crosses the extended runway centerline . In this case , most people would keep the FD on until reaching this point , and then turn it off , as it wo n't give you any useful guidance afterwards .
A lot has changed since the Frank Abagnale / " Catch Me If You Can " days , and riding as a non-revenue passenger ( particularly in the cockpit jump seat ) is no longer not as simple as grabbing a passable captain 's uniform , polishing your shoes up , and smooth-talking the flight crew . Someone seeking a ride in an airplane jump seat would still have to pass through airport security and prove their identity &amp; authorization to occupy such a seat to the satisfaction of the crew operating the flight , which would likely include checking credentials that are at lease somewhat difficult to forge . So in short it 's possible -- if someone is particularly adept at <URL> , forgery , and has at least a working knowledge of airport &amp; airline security procedures they might get away with it -- but it 's extremely unlikely , and as has been pointed out the consequences if and when you get caught are particularly unpleasant these days .
The locks release and typically the gear falls free into place . It is often aided by hydraulic motors ( i.e. to overcome anything that might be trying to hold the gear up , such as slush from the takeoff runway that froze after the gear was in the well ) , but most landing gear will freefall into place within a couple of seconds even without hydraulic assistance after the uplocks are released . What you 're probably hearing is the sudden onset of the wind noise -- when retracted the landing gear is streamlined , but when extended there is now an open cavity where the gear had been , and this open area in the fuselage creates a lot of wind noise from the suddenly turbulent airflow . Going from a relatively quite state to a loud one suddenly gives the impression of a " bang . " This is possibly enhanced by whatever noise is made by the uplocks that hold the landing gear in place releasing , and perhaps some louder noise as the initial moments of the gear extension may be noisier than the steady-state noise of being fully extended . Also , the noise due to the turbulence will subside as the airspeed slows , and extending the landing gear often comes during a phase of flight when the airspeed is being reduced in preparation for the final approach segment and the subsequent landing .
I find climbing into the aircraft a good first step ;) Sorry , could n't resist ! The best way to start is to find and visit a local airfield near where you live . Most local airfields have some level of training taking place , and if the closest to you does not then another , perhaps slightly farther afield , will do . Visit one of these flying schools and ask to speak to an instructor , a CFI , or an examiner . They will give you more details such as the aircraft they fly , the typical syllabus and the expected costs . From there , you might like to start with a " trial flight " - typically 30-45 minute flight where you get to take controls and get a feel for piloting an aircraft . Good luck .
There are several ways to slow down an airliner : aerodynamic drag friction in the wheel bearings reverse thrust wheel brakes and a few even used a <URL> , but that went out of fashion a long time ago . If the runway is inclined , landing <URL> also will slow down the aircraft . Friction and drag you get for free , so I would rely on those first . Since they are highest when the speed is high , use them first until the aircraft is so far down the runway that it would overshoot without additional application of wheel brakes . Use spoilers and leave the flaps down to maximise the deceleration . Only at the end add wheel brakes so you have slowed down to taxi speed when the exit of the runway is reached . So the best answer is none of the above but : Coast along with flaps and spoilers out until you need to brake more to avoid an overshoot . Then apply wheel brakes . The exact way how brakes should be applied depends on <URL> .
I did all my training in PA-28 's ( Warrior and Archer II mainly ) and here is my advice ) First off , practice makes perfect in all cases here . Second , I am not a CFI and you should ALWAYS seek the experience of a CFI to help you learn how to fly properly . Discuss everything with your CFI before trying anything . The PA-28 is one of the most benign airframes and even in the bumpiest the bumpiest of conditions you can fly it by the numbers every time . Floating on landing is generally caused by ( in my experience ) 2 things . Excessive speed on final - Remember you will only land nicely once you have gotten rid of all excess speed . This happens during your round-out and flare to landing . On a short field even a perfect landing will take up more runway if you are overspeed since you need to bleed that speed off . Ballooning - This is generally a result of over speed and over flaring . Since the PA-28 is a low wing ( compared to the high wing of the C172 ) an over-flare to early will cause significant ballooning as you effectively bounce off the ground effect . A proper timed round out and flare will come in time . One thing you can do to mitigate this ( and I found this helped as a student pilot for me ) is to fly a longer final leg ( and thus a longer downwind ) . When I was learning to fly a stable approach it took time for me to get the settings in and really nail the approach . A longer final will help you settle the plane into place as a student and really nail a maneuver like this . Generally tight patterns are taught but if its safer and better for you to fly a longer final and nail the maneuver , do it . In the PA-28 's you can ( and should ) be right on 65 kts when doing a soft field . Practice descending at a constant airspeed at altitude with your instructor . 500ft/min right on 65Kts with full flaps , then come back into the pattern and use what you learned to come in right as you should . Cut the power a bit earlier . Generally you are most likely taught to cut the power over the numbers and touch down at the markers . In a short field situation you can cut the power a bit earlier , pitch down to keep you speed up , and touch down right on the numbers . <URL> Train at an actual short field ( or as short as you are allowed to fly ) . My flight school generally had us going between 5000ft airports with 2 runways ( we were based at KPNE ) . Crosswinds were never really an issue and runway length left plenty of margin for error . My instructor made it a point to take me to 3000 X 60 fields to really get practice in ( the shortest the fligh schools insurance would cover ) . Depending on where you are training out of this may not be an issue . One more general habit of new pilots is over correcting and getting your self into an increasingly corrective state . This happens both laterally and vertically but in your case the vertical over correction is going to be the killer . If you are comming in and notice that you are low you add power , pitch up a bit and now you are too high . You pull power and pitch back down but this builds up some speed . Now you find your self over correcting all over the place to get back to a stabilized aproach . This is where the long final will help . You need to really get the plane on that 65Kt mark , trim it off , leave the power alone and fly it in . If you get bumped by a gust or a thermal wait a second and see if the termal settles then and only then should you come in with a small correction .
The regulatory bodies are <URL> in defining a regulation for that . Because there are first officers who do not hold an <URL> . The airlines would need to add an extra flight member for that rare situation . Instead , it 's up to each airline 's SOP when it comes to <URL> . There are various assertiveness training models , <URL> are PACE , and CUS . Probe-Alert-Challenge-Emergency Concerned-Uncomfortable-Safety Facing battery depletion following an electrical failure , here 's <URL> for what the last step of PACE could have been like on <URL> : Captain , if you do n't immediately reverse course and get back to night VFR conditions , I must take over control of the airplane . I can not allow you to subject the passengers to such an unnecessary and high risk of certain death . Under these conditions , it is my duty and responsibility to relieve you of your command . Or , it can be much shorter when there 's no time , such as yelling , " I have control , " and pressing the TO/GA to initiate a go-around , for example . Some airlines <URL> , i.e. , " I 've mentioned my concern once , this will be the second and final time , <URL> . "
The book The Glass Cage <URL> a fully autopilot-controlled military test flight in 1947 . The plane was a C-54 Skymaster with seven men aboard . According to this source , the pilot aligned the plane on the runway for takeoff , but the takeoff , course control , and landing were performed by autopilot with no human engagement . See also this <URL> from the Chicago Tribune at the time .
end question
start question
How common are regulations limiting when the FO can be PF ?
All the airports listed in the AIC are quite tricky to takeoff/land in . For example , the Lengpui airport runway is a classic example of <URL> . <URL> Source : www.misual.com The Leh runway is surrounded by steep hills . <URL> Source : geolocation.ws The kullu airport runway has a river in both its ends . <URL> Source : www.airportsindia.org.in This is the reason for these restrictions . I 'm not aware of any such regulatory restrictions in case of other countries . However , the operating airlines <URL> about ( <URL> ) airports .
The pressure differential between the boiler and the cabin would be very large . I fear that this would result in the espresso machine being compromised . The pressure in the espresso machine is 9 bars , 14 in a good one . The difference in outside pressure is 0.3 bars . That is comparably tiny value that does not make any practical difference . Water would boil at a much lower temperature ( 198 ° F / 92 ° C ) resulting in the machinery not working correctly . Coffee should not be made with boiling water anyway . 198 ° F / 92 ° C is sufficient for making coffee . Besides , if the boiler was pressurized , the water would not boil until way higher temperature ( it is n't , but it does not heat the water above boiling point at that pressure ) . A sudden depressurization of the vessel could certainly result in a dangerous pressure differential resulting in explosive decompression . The pressurized content is water , not vapour , so it would not significantly expand if the machine cracked . After all , its pressure is relieved as part of normal operation ( when the coffee drips to the pot ) and it does not expand . And its amount is tiny compared to the total volume of the aircraft anyway . Very tiny , because the pressure is only in the pipe from the pump to the ground coffee . But that all assumes the coffee machine is espresso , which most of them are not . Usually they will be just filter machines where the water flows by gravity at ambient pressure or perhaps at some pressure , but much lower than in a real espresso machine . I believe some airlines do advertise they serve true espresso though .
There is quite a lot written on the topic , especially as part of " ground effect " vehicles research . For example , <URL> cite two different types of lift coefficient . The first one ( simpler and given here ) is based on flat plate airfoils and is a modification to the well-known $ \ frac { dC_l } { d \ alpha } = 2 \ pi $ : $ $ C_L = 2 \ pi \ alpha ( 1 + \ delta ^ 2 ) ( 1-2 \ zeta ) $ $ with $ $ \ zeta = \ frac { \ sin \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ and $ $ \ delta = \ frac { \ cos \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ In the above expressions , $ h $ is the height of the wing above the surface ( ground , water , etc. ) , $ c $ is the chord and $ \ alpha $ is the angle of attack . I strongly recommend you check out " ground effect " / " Ekranoplan " literature - should be useful .
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
The main reason is that it 's simpler than having everyone wear supplemental oxygen masks . There is no specific requirement for pressurizing an airplane but there are requirements for supplemental oxygen as per FAR 91.211 ( a ) General . No person may operate a civil aircraft of U.S. registry -- ( 1 ) At cabin pressure altitudes above 12,500 feet ( MSL ) up to and including 14,000 feet ( MSL ) unless the required minimum flight crew is provided with and uses supplemental oxygen for that part of the flight at those altitudes that is of more than 30 minutes duration ; ( 2 ) At cabin pressure altitudes above 14,000 feet ( MSL ) unless the required minimum flight crew is provided with and uses supplemental oxygen during the entire flight time at those altitudes ; and ( 3 ) At cabin pressure altitude above 15,000 feet ( MSL ) unless each occupant of > the aircraft is provided with supplemental oxygen . So by pressurizing the plane to under 15,000 ft you can fly over that altitude and not need to supply the passengers with supplemental oxygen for the duration of the flight . There are unpressurized piston planes that fly well into the flight levels but are required to carry supplemental oxygen and everyone aboard needs to use it , it 's a look some people in general aviation do n't mind , <URL> ( <URL> ) On a slight side note the engine does have an effect on this choice when it comes to light singles . Pressurization systems on turbo props/light jets pull their air from the compression stage of the turbine which is already compressing air so no extra compression hardware is needed . If you have chosen a piston engine for your design you need to drive some form of pressurization system which can add weight and complexity . There are a few pressurized piston planes out there like the <URL> , <URL> ( came in both pressurized and un pressurized ) and the <URL> ( the only one currently in production ) .
Incidental costs specific to the passenger , such as O2 for the passenger 's medical condition , may be paid by the passenger and need not be factored into the cost of the flight for flight sharing costs . In your example , the Hobbs charge for the aircraft is the flight cost . If the passenger wants a headset , or anything else that is not a flight expense , the cost need not be shared . Landing fees , navigation fees and the like are grey areas , and I would split those . But something like a tie-down or hangar fee is not a flight expense , and the passenger may pay for in full . If you read cases where the FAA has prosecuted pilots for conducting operations " for hire " or similar , they tend to be egregious . So in your example , $ 60 would be the right answer . I would suggest that you could even split the cost of the charts you might buy for the trip . As a final word , I would make certain that your passenger understands that you are just sharing expenses , not that they are " paying for a ride . "
The best answer : Use the charts in the respective Pilot 's Operating Handbook ( POH ) . There you should find correction factors for the parameters which influence aircraft range Fuel on board : The more , the better . But note that doubling fuel will not double range . Take-off mass : If you take no payload , the aircraft will produce less induced drag and reach a slightly higher range . See the chart below for an example . <URL> enroute . Follow the link ; the wind component parallel to your flight direction will change the range by the product of wind speed times flight time . Cruise <URL> : This depends on the type of engines , <URL> than <URL> . Temperature Generally , there should be a chart like this : It plots the maximum achievable range over the aircraft 's payload and assumes that the tanks are filled such that the flight starts with the maximum take-off mass . The chart should also have an explanation that clarifies which altitude and which thrust setting were used . Or you use approximations like <URL> , which require detailed knowledge of the aircrafts L/D and the engine 's fuel consumption . That will be the weakest point of any range calculation : Sufficient data how changes in the aforementioned parameters affect the result .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
As the EET is variable from flight to flight you should better say that it is dependent on specific kinds of operation or routes , which is quite the same but includes also the time before and after the flight . Flight duty time starts at check in and ends at check out . There are general requirements based on the maximum allowed duty time of a crew member , which are again based on the regulations of the aviation authority of the operators country . Finally it differs from airline to airline and is regulated by the operations manual , which can of course be not less restrictive than the authority , but there are some general titles you often hear : Captain The Captain is the PIC ( pilot in command ) of this flight and responsible for a safe operation . He must be on station for departure and arrival . First Officer The F/O is also found on every airliner operation . On short or medium ranges he is the ' Copilot ' , some airlines fly with two F/Os on long haul flights and in some portions of this flight most probably the two F/Os are in the cockpit and the captain takes a nap . Second Officer When starting at an airline , you sometimes begin as a S/O and are only alloweed to do specific tasks . So for example handling the radios during departure and arrival , or having the controls during the cruise phase . Cruise Captain Well , read the name ;) He might be a Captain and only in the function of a Cruise Captain for a specific flight , but once again , it depends on the operator .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
The problem is : Now I want the aircraft to go to balance state to move with constant velocity . So all the four forces should equals to zero thus the lift force should equlas the weight force . How Can I decrease the lift force ? This can be done by simultaneously reducing AoA ( which in-turn reduce CL ) by introducing little down elevator and reducing the engine power accordingly to maintain the airspeed .
A leaseback can be advantageous , especially when you use the aircraft for your own flight training and travel . But there are some things you need to watch out for : Other people will be using your aircraft - whether people admit it or not , nobody will take care of the plane as well as you do . If you think you might take issue with trash in the cockpit , a scratch on the panel , or a tear in the seat , you might want to give this a second thought . In my experience , flying clubs seem to have pilots that take better care of the aircraft , since membership is controlled . You 'll have to schedule your flights - just like everyone else ( though some concessions are usually made for the owner ) . The bottom line is , you wo n't be able to just get up and go fly somewhere at a moment 's notice anymore . You have to play by someone else 's maintenance rules - While you have to comply with FARs in any case , the lessee typically will have stipulations that they ( or their designee ) will perform any required maintenance on your behalf and your say in the matter will be limited . Of course , you still have the honor of paying for any maintenance performed ( typically at little or no discount ) . Your capital is tied up - This can be a good or bad thing . It 's good in the sense that aircraft tend to be a good hedge against inflation risk . It 's bad because you 're precluded from using the money on something else . This is one of the main reasons that flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks . If you 're looking to make money ... it wo n't happen - most leasebacks only help offset the expense of operating the aircraft . If you 're looking for a return on your investment , better to look somewhere else . Do it only to reduce the cost of ownership on something you want anyway . Finally , YOU take on the financial risk of the aircraft - in most leaseback situations , you are reimbursed for any use , but are still responsible for any finance and indirect ( and sometimes direct ) maintenance costs . These have to be paid , whether the aircraft is flying or not . And if business starts to slow down ... well , I 'll give you a hint : it 's not the flying club that has to pay to keep your plane airworthy . This is the main other reason flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks .
The <URL> of FAAviation News ( now <URL> ) has a detailed article on owner-produced parts , including advice on best practices if you want to make your own parts . It does confirm that owners have very broad authority to do so , provided that they document everything properly . Typical reasons for producing your own parts are ( I 've paraphrased them from the article here ) : The aircraft has been out of production for years The aircraft is an orphan without a Type Certificate There is no technical support because the aircraft is so old There may be long delays in getting parts from the manufacturer The price of official parts is extremely high As for requirements of the part itself , the article list four characteristics that a part must have : The part must be properly designed The part must be produced to conform to the design The part 's production must be properly documented The part must be properly maintained The owner must be involved in the production but does n't actually have to do the manufacturing himself : The aircraft owner must participate in the manufacture of the part in at least one of five ways for it to be considered an Owner Produced Part . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the design or performance data . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with the materials . The owner provides the manufacturer with fabrication processes or assembly methods . The owner provides the manufacturer of the part with quality control procedures . The owner personally supervises the manufacture of the new part . More recently , in the September 2014 edition of the <URL> magazine , <URL> has an article on replacement parts that calls the current regulations on owner produced parts " extremely liberal " : " Owner-produced parts " do not require a PMA . These are parts produced by an aircraft owner for use on his own aircraft , and not offered for sale . There is an FAA letter of interpretation that sets forth precisely what an owner 's involvement must be to qualify a part as " owner-produced , " and it is extremely liberal . The owner need not actually manufacture the part himself , so long as he provides specifications or materials or supervision or some other meaningful participation in the part 's production . Unfortunately , he did n't mention exactly which letter of interpretation covers these parts but the FAA magazine article refers to an " FAA Memorandum dated August 5 , 1993 " and I guess it 's probably the same one . I was n't able to find it on the <URL> .
There are several additional measures which can be done to prevent a tied down airplane from harsh weather , storms and blizzards . However , nature is always more powerful than humans and it can overcome any safety measures taken by them . If your airplane is tied down properly and securely , hail is a bigger threat than storms or blizzards . A hangar protects an airplane more than the one outside , but it costs a lot more . <URL> ( and <URL> ) discusses several measures you can take to protect your airplane against harsh weather . To avoid redundancy , I am just pointing ( and paraphrasing ) a few here : Parking spot If you can , choose a spot which can break the wind intensity . Anchor points Depending on the aircraft , the anchor points ' holding strength must be 3000-4000 lbs . Ropes You should use those ropes which do not shrink when wet ( e.g. , nylon or dracon ropes instead of Manila ) . Position If possible , park aircraft nearly into the wind as possible . Weight A lighter object is easier to get displaced . You can fill-up the tanks to add extra weight . If you interested in reading some long articles , <URL> and <URL> provide some useful information too . Regarding your second question about snow on the wings , I hardly doubt that something like this will happen : The above <URL> because : ... when the tail hook was torn off and the plane was pushed forward , breaking the spar . <URL> Airplane wings are very sturdy . They can bear the weight of foot or two of snow .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
Skimming <URL> : The most consistent way to show up on FlightAware is to have your flight worked by ATC ( a squawk code and an IFR flight plan ) , or to fly an airplane equipped with ADS-B Out . FlightAware <URL> unless they have ADS-B Out : some VFR aircraft with flight following are available on the position maps but it largely unreliable You can block your tail number <URL> . Both the FAA and FlightAware operate block lists .
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
When there are several airports close to each other , a single ATC , formally known as Terminal Control Center may service all airports . The airspace boundaries and altitudes assigned to a Terminal Control Center , which vary widely from airport to airport , are based on factors such as traffic flows , neighboring airports and terrain . <URL> is an example of a large and complex Terminal Control Center . Its service area is up to 20,000 feet and out to 100 nautical miles . It controls : six London airports one Royal Air Force station provides en-route services to other aircraft that entered its airspace Another example can be found with <URL> and <URL> , which have adjacent control zones that share a common boundary west to east and have an overlaying class C TMA airspace up to FL100 . Both airports share the same TMA controller/approach sector : Image Source : www.skyvector.com FAA is implementing a new airspace system which will increase efficiencies at metropolitan areas with complex air traffic flows . This system , known as <URL> is introducing the concept of a <URL> : In FAA parlance , metroplex refers to a system of airports in close proximity and their shared airspace that serve one or more major cities . A metroplex has at least one , but often two or more major commercial airports .
This depends on what you mean by a " jetpack " . If you mean the classic James Bond-style rocket pack , then according to an FAA spokesman <URL> in the Wall Street Journal they just do n't fly long enough for the FAA to be interested : Once aloft , a jetpack pilot is preoccupied with getting down quickly : A typical pack holds about 10 gallons of fuel , only enough to fly for about half a minute . The Federal Aviation Administration does n't regulate jetpacks . " Thirty seconds is not sufficient to be considered a flight , " says FAA spokesman Les Dorr . He adds that it 's up to the individual to assess the risks . On the other hand if you 're referring to the <URL> , which uses fans instead of rockets , then several sources ( e.g. <URL> ) say that it 's considered an ultralight by the FAA , in which case all the usual ultralight regulations would apply . But I could n't find any direct confirmation of that on Martin 's site .
The <URL> lists the required separations . Behind a heavy aircraft , the departure hold is 3 minutes and it may not be waived . Behind a small aircraft , the hold may be waived on pilot request only : 3 . Additionally , appropriate time or distance intervals are provided to departing aircraft : ( a ) Two minutes or the appropriate 4 or 5 mile radar separation when takeoff behind a heavy/B757 jet will be : ( 1 ) From the same threshold . ( 2 ) On a crossing runway and projected flight paths will cross . ( 3 ) From the threshold of a parallel runway when staggered ahead of that of the adjacent runway by less than 500 feet and when the runways are separated by less than 2,500 feet . NOTE - Controllers may not reduce or waive these intervals . b . A 3-minute interval will be provided when a small aircraft will takeoff : 1 . From an intersection on the same runway ( same or opposite direction ) behind a departing large aircraft , 2 . In the opposite direction on the same runway behind a large aircraft takeoff or low/missed approach . NOTE - This 3-minute interval may be waived upon specific pilot request . c . A 3-minute interval will be provided for all aircraft taking off when the operations are as described in subparagraph b1 and 2 above , the preceding aircraft is a heavy/B757 jet , and the operations are on either the same runway or parallel runways separated by less than 2,500 feet . Controllers may not reduce or waive this interval . EDIT : The AIM <URL> ( intersection takeoffs ) also addresses this question , including suggested pilot phraseology for waiving the hold ( emphasis mine ) : Controllers are required to separate small aircraft ( 12,500 pounds or less , maximum certificated takeoff weight ) departing ( same or opposite direction ) from an intersection behind a large nonheavy aircraft on the same runway , by ensuring that at least a 3-minute interval exists between the time the preceding large aircraft has taken off and the succeeding small aircraft begins takeoff roll . To inform the pilot of the required 3-minute hold , the controller will state , " Hold for wake turbulence . " If after considering wake turbulence hazards , the pilot feels that a lesser time interval is appropriate , the pilot may request a waiver to the 3-minute interval . To initiate such a request , simply say " Request waiver to 3-minute interval , " or a similar statement . Controllers may then issue a takeoff clearance if other traffic permits , since the pilot has accepted the responsibility for wake turbulence separation . Wake turbulence in general is considered a key safety issue by the FAA and there is a large amount of information in the AIM , the ATC guide and elsewhere .
end question
start question
What are the states that the landing gear can be in ?
Any instruments always show only three states : Down and locked ( green ) Up/stowed ( extinguished ) Anywhere in between ( red ) If you want to simulate it , remember that while the pilot can only command one of the two end states , the transition is a continuous process and you need to represent exact position of the gear in each frame of the simulation . So you need a value that will smoothly transition between 0 ( stowed ) and 1 ( down and locked ) . Any value in between will indicate red on the instrument , but will correspond to different state of the gear animation . The exact steps during gear extension ( and in reverse for raising ) differ by aircraft , but generally the animation will have three parts that you will map to suitable ranges of the gear state value : opening the gear door , lowering the gear and closing the main gear door . The last step actually complicates issues a bit , because the gear is already down and locked when the main gear door close and in case you do gravity extension the main gear door remain open . So the suggested mapping is actually something like : opening the gear door 0.0 to 0.3 lowering the gear 0.4 to 1.0 closing the main gear door 1.1 to 1.4 When you extend the gear normally , the value will transition up to 1.4 ( and show green past 1.0 ) , when you extend the gear via alternate mechanism ( gravity drop ) , it will only transition to 1.0 . If you want to simulate alternate extension , of course . Tweak the values to make the animation look appropriate . The relative speed differs by aircraft . Some aircraft also do n't have gear door ( e.g. 737 only has one panel that is attached to the strut on main wheels ; it still does have nose gear door , so the process will be slightly different for each leg ) . Which leads me to note , that if you want to simulate failures , you definitely need separate value for each leg , because some failures , like <URL> , only affect one gear . Also in reality the legs take slightly different time to extend , so you can add some variability to the transition time if you wish .
In the specific case of Canada , AOPA and COPA have a lot of information aimed at US pilots . AOPA has a <URL> on documents , customs etc. and COPA has <URL> with more information , which includes this remark : The flying rules are almost indistinguishable - reading the COPA guide should keep you legal and out of trouble . Make sure you get a Canada Flight Supplement ( CFS ) and some VNCs ( Canadian equivalent to your US sectionals ) , that will allow you to navigate VFR safely . IFR plates are available from Nav Canada as a subscription or the ( sample list of ) vendors included below . ( by mail order ) The guide is free but available to AOPA/COPA members only .
This is probably more <URL> than an aviation one , but I did some Googling of various aviation and travel sites and the consensus seems to be this : You can carry the scanner with you , but if you 're unlucky and encounter the wrong TSA agent on the wrong day then you may be asked a lot of questions at security ( the <URL> " Can I Bring ... " tool seems to consider scanners to be generic electronic items ) Using the scanner while sitting in the airport is fine , but if you attract attention to yourself then you may be questioned by the police or airport security You may not use a two-way radio on board the aircraft , because they 're specifically required to be off at all times ( this is in every airline 's safety instructions that I 've seen ) ; that should n't apply to a radio that only receives but the cabin crew might ask you to turn it off anyway if they 're not sure about it Even if you did operate the scanner in the air , the reception is terrible and you 'll probably hear only the aircraft 's crew , not ATC Note that this information is for the USA only , many other countries are very strict about possession and use of scanners or two-way radios and in the UK ( for example ) just <URL> .
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
No , the gear does n't actively extend , and any passive change to the strut extension during takeoff is likely to be imperceptible . What you are perceiving during takeoff is the <URL> . It is a physiological sensation , not a physical change . Rapid acceleration , as during a takeoff roll , causes the inner ear to report what your brain assumes is your head tilting back . The <URL> sit in fluid and detect the tilt of your head . Acceleration and pitching up ( or tilting back ) cause the exact same movement of the otoliths . Because the otoliths are pushed backwards by the fluid , just like they would by you tilting your head back , it feels like a climb . When an airliner is taking off , you have limited outside references to the horizon and your inner ear takes over the task of orienting you . You might notice it in smaller aircraft if you closed your eyes ; in very small aircraft , the acceleration may be too slow to trigger the illusion .
Any instruments always show only three states : Down and locked ( green ) Up/stowed ( extinguished ) Anywhere in between ( red ) If you want to simulate it , remember that while the pilot can only command one of the two end states , the transition is a continuous process and you need to represent exact position of the gear in each frame of the simulation . So you need a value that will smoothly transition between 0 ( stowed ) and 1 ( down and locked ) . Any value in between will indicate red on the instrument , but will correspond to different state of the gear animation . The exact steps during gear extension ( and in reverse for raising ) differ by aircraft , but generally the animation will have three parts that you will map to suitable ranges of the gear state value : opening the gear door , lowering the gear and closing the main gear door . The last step actually complicates issues a bit , because the gear is already down and locked when the main gear door close and in case you do gravity extension the main gear door remain open . So the suggested mapping is actually something like : opening the gear door 0.0 to 0.3 lowering the gear 0.4 to 1.0 closing the main gear door 1.1 to 1.4 When you extend the gear normally , the value will transition up to 1.4 ( and show green past 1.0 ) , when you extend the gear via alternate mechanism ( gravity drop ) , it will only transition to 1.0 . If you want to simulate alternate extension , of course . Tweak the values to make the animation look appropriate . The relative speed differs by aircraft . Some aircraft also do n't have gear door ( e.g. 737 only has one panel that is attached to the strut on main wheels ; it still does have nose gear door , so the process will be slightly different for each leg ) . Which leads me to note , that if you want to simulate failures , you definitely need separate value for each leg , because some failures , like <URL> , only affect one gear . Also in reality the legs take slightly different time to extend , so you can add some variability to the transition time if you wish .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
Gravity/freefall backup ( or more precisely some backup ) is mandatory , but in large aircraft running pulley from cockpit to the wheel wells to release the uplock ( the thing that keeps the gear retracted ) mechanically would be too complicated or the force required to operate it too large , so the uplock still needs to be released electrically . Unfortunately the circuit breaker that protects the circuit responsible for releasing the uplock was " popped " ( open ) , so the uplocks did n't release and the gear did n't fall down . The crew was trying to troubleshoot the issue for 80 minutes and consulted maintenance over radio , but because the checklists for either central hydraulic system ( which does the normal gear extension ) failure or alternate gear extension did not mention the circuit breaker ( C829 ) neither crew nor maintenance thought of checking it . It is not possible to find why and when the breaker popped . They tested the alternate extension afterwards and it worked , but the breaker covers several other circuits and there could have been transient problem somewhere or it could have been maintenance error or some other reasons . You can read excerpt from the report on <URL> .
I get a variation of the glide ratio with $ \ frac { 2 } { \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } $ for circles flown with a bank angle of $ \ varphi $ when compared to straight flight at the respective best speed for optimum L/D . Your initial assumptions are right : Lift : $ L = c_L \ , \ rho \ , \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ , S \ , n_z $ Load factor : $ n_z = \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } $ with the bank angle $ \ varphi $ Drag : $ D = D_0 + D_i = \ Bigl ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ varepsilon } \ Bigr ) \ , \ rho \ , \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ , S$ ( zero-lift drag + induced drag ) , and both are equal at optimum $ L/D $ : $ $ \ Bigl ( \ frac { L } { D } \ Bigr ) _ { \ rm opt } = \ Bigl ( \ frac { c_L } { c_D } \ Bigr ) _ { \ rm opt } = \ frac { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ epsilon } { 2 \ , c_L } \ text { for straight flight at } 1 \ , g \ text { ( $ n_z = 1 $ ) } . $ $ Now with load factor $ n_z = n $ and unchanged speed : $ $ \ frac { L _ { ng } } { D _ { ng } } = \ frac { \ frac { c _ { L _ { 1g } } } { \ cos \ varphi } } { \ frac { c _ { L _ { 1g } } ^ 2 \ bigl ( 1 + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos ^ 2 \ varphi } \ bigr ) } { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ epsilon } } = \ frac { \ pi \ , AR \ , \ varepsilon } { c _ { L _ { 1g } } \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } . $ $ The ratio between both glide ratios is $ \ frac { 2 } { \ bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ bigr ) } $ , which makes sense because it will become 1 for $ \ varphi = 0 $ and become less than 1 for nonzero values of $ \ varphi $ . Note that the glide ratio at n g does n't carry an " opt " subscript anymore , because by increasing $ c_L $ we move away from the optimum . If the best L/D would be maintained for circling flight , speed would need to increase , not lift coefficient . The altitude loss in straight flight of a distance equal to the diameter of a circle with the radius $ R = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { g \ tan \ varphi } $ is $ 2 \ , \ pi \ , R \ , \ frac { D } { L } $ . When flown at the correct bank angle , this altitude loss per circle $ \ Delta h $ will become $ $ \ Delta h = \ frac { \ pi \ , v ^ 2 } { g \ tan \ varphi } \ Bigl ( \ frac { D } { L } \ Bigr ) _ { 1g } \ Bigl ( \ cos \ varphi + \ frac { 1 } { \ cos \ varphi } \ Bigr ) . $ $ Plot of the glide ratio with bank angle divided by the glide ratio for straight flight ( blue line ) . I also added the altitude loss for a full circle ( red line , Basis : $ L/D = 18 $ at 100 $ \ , $ m/s in straight flight ) , both for flight at constant speed and constant lift coefficient : Use the results from this plot with caution at higher bank angles : Lift would need to double at a bank angle of 60 ° , doubling $ c_L $ , so we fly much more slowly than any pilot would . The red line gives more realistic values , since here the aircraft speeds up for flying higher bank angles . Flying at constant speed gives less altitude loss simply because the circle becomes smaller than when flying at constant $ c_L $ . Note that for every meter flown the altitude lost is greater when flying at constant speed , indicated by the blue glide ratio degradation curve . Two factors conspire to increase aerodynamic losses when flying at constant speed with higher bank angles : You need to create more lift , which causes higher induced drag , and Your optimum $ L/D $ is at a higher speed when the bank angle increases , which again increases aerodynamic losses because you move away from the optimum . If you try to express the altitude loss per circle $ \ Delta h $ as a function of $ \ varphi $ , you will get a quadratic equation and two solutions , one high and one low bank angle : $ $ \ frac { \ cos ^ 2 \ varphi + 1 } { \ sin \ varphi } = \ frac { g \ , \ Delta h } { \ pi \ , v ^ 2 } \ Bigl ( \ frac { L } { D } \ Bigr ) _ { 1g } . $ $ Maybe MathSE can solve this algebraically ; I would resort to iteration or tabulation here .
As far as I can find , the FAA does n't define the term landing so it could be argued either way . The " typical " <URL> is : 1 : an act or process of one that lands ; especially : a going or bringing to a surface ( as land or shore ) after a voyage or flight That definition does n't say that it has to be " controlled " or that the airplane has to be usable again ! Even if you decide that it was n't a " successful landing " , you could always get your third landing later if you are still allowed to fly , and then carry the passengers . So this brings us to the second part of your question : Are you allowed to fly after an accident ? Since you had an accident ( as defined by <URL> ) you must immediately notify the NTSB of the accident . Once you do that , you have 10 days to file the required report . At this point , you still have a valid pilot license and can legally fly another airplane . Chances are however , that you will be receiving a certified letter from the local FSDO requiring a reexamination in order to keep your license because your competence has been called into question . If you do n't call them to make an appointment , they will start the process to suspend your certificate . During this time , you can also continue to fly because you still have a valid license . The FAA can also use their emergency authority to immediately suspend your license if they feel that it is warranted . This can be appealed to the NTSB board if you feel that it is n't justified , and they have up to five days to respond . At this point you are not allowed to fly pending the response from the board . This , and a lot more information can be found on <URL> .
The landing gears are manufactured by Messier-Dowty , a Safran group company . According to <URL> , Safran Landing Systems is responsible for the design , development , qualification testing , manufacture and support of the main landing gear for the A350-900 aircraft . Also , Safran Landing Systems also provides wheel and carbon brakes for the A350 , as well as the landing gear extension-retraction system , monitoring system , steering system and braking system . The landing gear design <URL> : The A350-900 main landing gear ... includes the increased use of advanced materials , in particular high strength titanium , corrosion resistant steels and HVOF coatings . <URL> A350 landing gear materials , from <URL>
Airport with an operating control tower = talk to it . From the regulations : § 91.126 ( d ) ( concerns Class G ) and § 91.127 ( c ) ( concerns Class E ) are identical . Communications with control towers . Unless otherwise authorized or required by ATC , no person may operate an aircraft to , from , through , or on an airport having an operational control tower unless two-way radio communications are maintained between that aircraft and the control tower . Communications must be established prior to 4 nautical miles from the airport , up to and including 2,500 feet AGL . However , if the aircraft radio fails in flight , the pilot in command may operate that aircraft and land if weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums , visual contact with the tower is maintained , and a clearance to land is received . If the aircraft radio fails while in flight under IFR , the pilot must comply with § 91.185 .
Currently , the 777 has engines that have a max thrust of <URL> , for a total of 230,000 lbf of thrust . The 747-8 has engines with a max thrust of <URL> , each , for a total of 266000 . And just to throw in for comparison , the A380 , currently has engines each producing <URL> of thrust , and a total of 288,000 lbf . Right now the 777 has some of the highest thrust producing engines in commercial service . This does not take into account the extra thrust that is required for engine out issues . With a 2 engine design you have to have enough extra thrust for loss of engine during take-off at max take off weight . Whereas with a 4 engine design , you only have to have enough thrust to account for loss of 1 engine . So for a 747 twin engine aircraft , as a rough estimate you 'd need to have each engine produce at least 150,000 lbf of thrust if not more .
@Lnafziger is correct that absolutely ZERO contact between aircraft flying in formation is acceptable , with Aerial Refueling ( AR ) being the sole exception to this -- but in that case the AR equipment is designed to allow for what 's going on . The problem with contact IS the significant risk of damage to the aircraft involved , so the assumption in " assuming no damage is caused , how much impact ... " is outside of typical experience . IF you could assure no damage , then all sorts of things might be possible , but even pretty stoutly built fighter jets still are n't " bumper cars " and should n't be treated as such . Even if a collision did n't cause an immediate structural failure , the risk of damage to the internal structure of the wing/tail/whatever would be enough that the aircraft would have to be taken apart &amp; xray 'd ( or another non-destructive inspection method ) to ensure that there was n't damage that would later result in structural failure . The one exception to all of this that I can recall was a technique that the RAF used in WW II to defeat the V-1 " buzz bomb " cruise missiles . While the Spitfires could shoot them down , the small size of the missile meant that you had to get so close that you were probably flying through a cloud of debris right after you killed it ( i.e. the warhead would detonate and the shrapnel might bring down the Spitfire as well ) . They discovered that the gyroscopes in the V-1 guidance ( i.e. the primitive autopilot ) would tumble if they were inverted , so some pilots would fly formation with the V-1 then intentionally make contact with its wing with their own , flipping the buzz bomb onto its back . At this point , the autopilot lost its bearings and the V-1 went down into ( presumably ! ) empty countryside , crashing far from its London target . Other than this , formation flight is carefully planned out so as to minimize all risk of contact between the aircraft . Even in the ( very cool ! ) video of the Blue Angels , you can see that there is always space between the wingtips -- more space for the more dynamic maneuvers , with the least space during a fairly brief and reasonably stable pass . Remember , these pilots are extremely good &amp; highly experienced in this sort of formation flying , and while there IS oscillation in pitch &amp; roll , the formation is designed so that this can safely go on . There just is n't much risk there of a force that would move one aircraft directly to the left or right of its position . Turbulence might produce a rolling or pitching motion that could LEAD TO a collision , but the pilots have enough control authority to correct these sorts of forces . That 's why they 're able to do what they do , safely . Fly Navy !
On older ( WWII-era ) large planes , the crew had access to a manual crank to lower the gear if the automatic extension/retraction system ( usually a linear actuator powered electrically ) failed . I do n't know of any that had a gravity-based manual system ; I 'm sure a few bomber crews would have appreciated something like that after having to crank the handle to get a disabled main gear locked . Here are the manual crank ports for the B-17 , on the forward bomb bay bulkhead with red arrows indicating the direction to crank : The B-17 had a retractable tail gear as well , so there was a third manual crank in the tunnel to the rear gunner 's position ( but if there were multiple gear failures , the main gear would be the priority ) . On more modern airliners with hydraulic extension/retraction , manually cranking the gear into place is n't as much of an option ( especially since any access to a crank linkage would be in either the passenger cabin or the cargo hold ) . For these aircraft , the gear are designed with a " manual extension " or " gravity release " . This basically disconnects the gear strut from its uplocks and the hydraulic cylinder , allowing gravity to pull the gear down and then momentum ( or a spring mechanism ) will engage the downlocks . Here is a diagram of the 737 's manual gear panel on the right-hand wall of the flight deck : The 747 has a manual nose gear extension system in the avionics compartment below the first-class cabin . The 747 's main gear are much more complex , but it is still possible to let gravity pull them into place , by using a set of " alternate gear extension " switches on the overhead panel to release each gear from the hydraulics and uplocks : It does n't always work ; a Virgin Atlantic 747 pilot was forced to make an emergency landing with the outboard right main gear stuck in a half-extended position :
I would like to point out a few things in your source . First , look at the bottom right picture . It shows an altitude of about 30 feet , guessing that an average airport fence is about 9 feet high ( forgive me if I 'm a little bit off , I usually use SI units ) . Then , if you look more closely , you see that the plane is not actually right above the fence at that point , but quite a bit past it , which means that it was higher when it passed the fence . So , no big problem there . Then the pictures of the bottom of the airplane . You notice how the airplane looks very distorted , like it has a massive nose . This is because smartphone cameras generally have wide-angle lenses - an extreme example would be a fish-eye lens . They severely distort the intuitive concept of distances ( closer looks VERY close , further away looks VERY far away ) - if you try to inspect it a little bit more carefully , suddenly you realize the plane is about 4-5 times the height of the quite large tree in the center of the picture . Again , no big problem . Then there 's the picture of the plane going over the road . This is shot with a narrow angle lens ( probably a good zoom lens or even a telephoto lens ) . This has the opposite effect of a wide-angle lens : things that are in reality separated a lot look really close to each other - my favorite example being <URL> picture . So , while it looks like it 's directly at the top of the hill , in reality it 's probably much further away . Then , finally : even if all of the above were false , it still would n't be a big problem . A stabilized approach is a <URL> . A lower glide angle makes some things quite a bit easier : your engines are spooled up higher which makes them more reactive , and your touchdown will be smoother than Mick Jagger 's moves . Downsides : more fuel consumption , more noise and usually more turbulent winds , which was specifically not the case according to the story ( indeed , they went low to avoid those winds ) .
The tailwheel is much lighter and smaller than a nose wheel . That means reducing airplane overall weight and drag ( because the landing gear is usually fixed ) . And it 's probably cheaper , too .
end question
start question
Why must one wait 48 hours to fly , after scuba diving ?
Yes It 's true . And yes it 's related to pressure . Have you heard of " The bends " or <URL> ? As divers go deeper the pressure increases . The longer you dive and deeper you go the more nitrogen is absorbed into your blood as a dissolved gas . As you return to the surface the pressure reduces and the nitrogen reverts to gas bubbles . This decompression needs to be done slowly so the nitrogen can pass back out through your lungs . If you ascend too fast the nitrogen can form bubbles in your blood ( Just like when you open a bottle of coke . ) which can be painful and possibly fatal . Even once you have finished diving you will still have residual nitrogen in your blood which will take time to release . Air pressure reduces further when you fly . If you finished a dive and got in a plane the rapid climb in altitude would result in a drop in pressure similar to a rapid ascent while diving . So you would run the risk of getting the bends . Small planes are n't pressurized . But even pressurized planes might not maintain atmospheric pressure when flying . This topic should have been covered if you have taken a dive course .
It 's all about making sure everybody knows what 's going on . While you are on an instrument approach and thus flying IFR , ATC is responsible for spacing you , giving instructions on heading and speed in order to fit you in with other inbound aircraft . In that situation they expect you to confirm and follow those instructions , and if you do n't it makes for a lot of headaches . If you 're on a visual approach , such as when you 've cancelled your IFR flight plan after descending below sparse clouds with the runway now in plain sight , then the tower knows not to give you spacing instructions ; they instead space IFR traffic around you , while other VFR traffic just has to maintain their separation minima from you . Knowing that you 're on a visual approach means ATC wo n't waste their breath trying to get you to adjust your airspeed , altitude or course to follow a traffic pattern ; they 'll just give those instructions to other aircraft in the pattern to maintain a steady traffic flow . ... unless you 're in Class B space . If you are flying into a Bravo airport , you can still request a visual approach , but approach control has to OK that change ( especially for airliners ) , and ATC is still required to provide separation services to you whether you 're VFR or IFR , so they can still give you instructions regarding your airspeed to make sure you fit into the IFR traffic pattern . This may , at times , require an uncomfortably fast landing for GA pilots being spaced in between commercial airliners at a busy time . Some Class Bs like Phoenix or DFW will have a runway more or less reserved for smaller aircraft so there 's less disturbance to commercial airliners with higher approach speeds , but not all airports have that luxury ; if you want to land your small single at O'Hare or Dulles , you 'll probably find yourself spaced in-between airliners and forced to very precisely time your approach so you can touch down and clear the runway in time for the plane behind you to take off . If traffic is heavy , you may not get in if you greet them with " Hello O'Hare Approach , Piper 354 Alpha ... " . As soon as the O'Hare controllers hear your GA small-prop callsign , if the pattern 's too busy they 'll deny you Bravo entry and recommend you head for a smaller airport like Chicago Exec or Gary .
No two bird strikes are the same when it comes to engine parameters , we can look at <URL> . Bird strike in both engines , yet only one showed above-normal EGT . In a jet engine , the bypass air assists in cooling , damage will disrupt this air flow . The core might still be running , or flammables ( oil , fuel , etc. ) might leak and catch fire . In an engine fire , EGT-rise is one of the confirming factors . However , according to the <URL> for Sully 's plane : No in-flight or postaccident fire occurred . So if it is just an engine failure , the engine will spool down . Even if the damage prevented the windmilling , EGT should still drop . If the EGT sensors were damaged , an indication of EGT reading failure is to be expected . Also the engine vibration indicator should show very high vibration after the bird strike . <URL> ( <URL> )
As <URL> you do n't necessarily pull a flap on airplane seatbelts -- Sometimes ( particularly in newer light GA planes from the 1990s and on ) you push a button just like you do in a car , other times it 's the " utility buckle " ( flap buckle ) - sometimes with a shoulder harness attach peg or other attach mechanism , and sometimes you 'll find rotary buckles , where you turn a knob to release the belt ( particularly common in aerobatic aircraft , with 4-point or 5-point restraints ) . I 've attached a little gallery of belt types below ( and this is n't even complete - military aircraft hafe some downright funky buckles ! ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> This variety is why the FAA requires flight crew to instruct passengers in the operation of the seat belts . So , why are the belts in airplanes different ? And why are there so many types ? Each belt is good at something different , and each belt has its own set of drawbacks . The automotive style push-button belt is very familiar to infrequent flyers . Most people who are going to get on a plane have been in a car ( they probably rode in one to the airport ) , so familiarity with automotive-style seatbelts can generally be assumed . This is great when you take someone for a flight who is n't a frequent airline passenger . The drawback to the automotive belt is it 's not as easy for rescuers to operate , and the push-button mechanism can jam - particularly in fires where the plastic shell can melt/fuse ( in cars the belts are often cut by rescuers because it 's easier/faster than dealing with the button ) . If your passengers are injured in an emergency and ca n't operate the belt it may be difficult for you to locate and press the button to assist in evacuation . The " utility buckle " flap belt is easy for rescuers &amp; cabin crew to operate . The exact opposite of the push-button belt 's chief drawback : It 's really easy for cabin crew or rescurers to find a utility buckle on a belt by feel and yank the flap to release it ( try it some time : Buckle someone into an airplane seat , close your eyes , and find/release the buckle . The hardest part is finding the belt if they 're wearing bulky clothes ) . It 's also relatively hard to jam a utility buckle , and relatively easy to inspect them to determine if they 're damaged . The drawback to the utility buckle is that not everyone has been on an airplane ( or in a really old car that uses them ) , so they might not be familiar with " Lift the flap to release the belt " , and in a panic situation it may take them a few seconds to remember what to do . The rotary buckle is unique and kind of awesome for what it 's built for . Rotary buckles make it easy to attach 4 or 5 point restraints , and to release all or part of them quickly . ( The buckle shown in the photos is single-function - turn to release - but dual-function buckles exist where you can press the button in the center of the buckle to release the shoulder straps , or turn the knob to release everything . ) The big drawbacks to rotary buckles are their novelty : On the ground you usually only find them on 5-point racing harnesses , and in the air they 're pretty uncommon too ( mainly aerobatic aircraft as I mentioned earlier ) . They 're probably the last type of buckle a passenger or rescuer would expect to have to deal with , and particularly with the dual-action buttons they can present a challenge in a panic egress ( passengers will hit the button and release the shoulder harnesses , but they 're still restrained by the lower portion of the belt - this can cost precious time for them to realize they have to turn the knob ) .
<URL> has a great post today about <URL> . There are a few basic reasons . Reliability Having two sparks plugs is more reliable . If one spark plug becomes inoperative for some reason , there 's a second to provide the spark for the power stroke . It should also be noted that the spark plugs are usually powered by dual , independent magnetos or , in some cases , an electronic capacitor discharge ignition . The redundancy of the ignition system adds to the reliability . More Power Having two spark plugs means the flame ignites from two points leading to more power per power stroke . This point is demonstrated during run-up . When the magneto check is done the engine RPMs drop when running on a single mag and set of spark plugs . Even Combustion Two sparks plugs and a two flame front leads to a more even burn of the fuel air mixture for a smoother running engine . Prevent Fouling Aircraft engines burn leaded fuel which can lead to getting lead deposits on the spark plugs . Having dual plugs leads to a more complete burn which can prevent the deposits from forming .
The pilot does n't retract the spoilers until the airplane has slowed down considerably , at the speed it 's traveling at that point the spoilers would be adding no benefits so there 's no point keeping them deployed .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
It depends on the seat . Most modern seats , including the ACES II system common in US Fighter Jets , fall away from the pilot at a pre-determined altitude . <URL> Once out of the plane , a drogue gun in the seat fires a metal slug that pulls a small parachute , called a drogue parachute , out of the top of the chair . This slows the person 's rate of descent and stabilizes the seat 's altitude and trajectory . After a specified amount of time , an altitude sensor causes the drogue parachute to pull the main parachute from the pilot 's chute pack . At this point , a seat-man-separator motor fires and the seat falls away from the crewmember . The person then falls back to Earth as with any parachute landing . Generally , according to that link , this occurs at just over 100-200 feet above ejection height . However , if you eject at high altitude , such as Captain Scott O'Grady did ( 26,000 ft ) , the seat will fall away on a sensor ( either 10,000 or 18,000 feet , I do n't recall which ) . The chute may open automatically , or if it is not set to at that height , you can then pull the chute manually , or wait until its set height to open .
Well there may be vortex formation on the ground under certain conditions , but it does n't stick around long enough to really be measured or cause trouble . Any time a wing is producing lift it will generate a wake . This happens even if the wing generates just enough lift to make the aircraft " lighter " but not enough to get it off the ground : Vortices will still start to form at the wingtips , but as they begin their rotation ( downward and outward ) they will quickly hit the ground and be dispersed . If the runway were a narrow strip with the wingtips hanging out in free air you would still see vortex formation in these edge cases , but pilots generally do n't like to take off on a tightrope . Airplanes also usually do n't stay in that kind of edge case situation where the wing is generating lift but the wheels are still on the ground for very long : Either they 're taking off ( soon after the wing starts producing some lift it 's producing enough lift and the airplane begins flying ) , or they 're landing ( within a few seconds after you touch down you 've slowed to a point where the wing 's lift production , and thus vortex formation , is negligible ) . Thus for practical purposes of wake turbulence avoidance the wake begins when the airplane rotates , and ends where it touches down . It 's also worth noting that if you happen to be following close enough for the incipient wingtip vortices to cause trouble on the ground you 'll probably be experiencing other issues ( jet blast , prop blast , etc. ) which will remind you that it 's prudent to maintain a safe separation distance from other aircraft on the ground .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
The " special notices " are a section of the <URL> , but those notices paint a very incomplete picture . Both the FAA and the TSA have requirements regarding DCA . The very basics are that you must get authorization from both the FAA and TSA 24 hours in advance , you must have an armed security officer , and you must depart from a <URL> . The details are , well ... FAA Requirements Regulations require an arrival/departure slot to be reserved via the <URL> system during most hours , just like other airports designated as high-density airports . Flights to DCA must originate from within a 1250 mile perimeter ( with limited exceptions ) . TSA requirements The TSA requirements are referred to as the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) . An overview is given on this <URL> ( scroll down to " DCA Access Standard Security Program " ) . Details can be found in the <URL> ... because calling the ruling both interim and final wo n't confuse anyone . Here is a summarization of that document : Section A. Aircraft Operator Requirements : Security Coordinators The aircraft operator ( company ) must have a designated security coordinator who is the point of contact for the TSA and is responsible for implementing the DASSP requirements . This person must undergo a TSA security threat assessment , and a fingerprint-based criminal history records check ( CHRC ) by the FBI . DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) TSA will verify the operator 's status with the FAA before sending the DASSP document which contains " sensitive security information " which must be implemented , and the operator must notify TSA when all requirements have been implemented . Flightcrew Members Each flight crew member ( does not include flight attendants ) must undergo a fingerprint-based CHRC and an FAA record check . Almost any prior restricted airspace violation is an immediate disqualifier . Flight Approvals Each flight into or out of DCA requires a tentative slot reservation from the FAA ( see FAA reqirement # 1 above ) before applying for TSA authorization . The TSA application must be submitted at least 24 hours prior to aircraft departure . If TSA approves the application , they will transmit this to the FAA which will issue the final slot reservation , and TSA will notify the operator . The TSA only approves up to 48 applications for a given date . The application must include ( once per round-trip ) : The name , address , and citizen status of each passenger and crewmember ( includes flight attendants ) . The registration number of the aircraft . The flight plan . and ... " any other information required by TSA . " Operating Requirements Each flight must : be operated under instrument flight rules . not make any intermediate stops between the designated gateway airport and DCA . have the aircraft , crew , passengers , and property inspected by TSA prior to departure . have the cockpit door closed and locked for the duration of the flight ( if equipped ) . have at least one armed security officer who meets the armed security officer requirements . Costs TSA charges \ $ 15 for each crew member and passenger to conduct the security threat assessment . Additionally , they charge for the screening services at the airport which are " currently estimated at \ $ 296 per round trip into and out of DCA . " Protection of Sensitive Security Infonnation The specific security details described in the DASSP must only be shared on a need-to-know basis . Other Security Procedures This paragraph basically says TSA can make you do whatever they want ... as if that was n't obvious by this point in the list . Compliance TSA can perform any inspection or test it wants to verify the operators compliance with DASSP . Section B. Fixed Base Operator Requirements That 's right , there are two section B 's , one right after the other ... in case you were n't already convinced the TSA has strong attention to detail . This section just says there are FBO requirements for gateway airports . Here is a list of <URL> dated March 21 , 2013 . The list is always subject to change and seems to have more to do with whether there is an FBO at the airport who wants to put up the DASSP more than anything else . Section C. Armed Security Officer Requirements Armed security officers must be an active or retired law enforcement officer , or an individual approved by the TSA . This requires a similar background check as the security coordinator and law enforcement training which TSA finds acceptable . For more information , see the <URL> . Flying under Part 91 ? At first glance it does n't seem like there is any rule explicitly prohibiting Part 91 operations in <URL> , and <URL> says : ( a ) This part prescribes aviation security rules governing the following : ( 1 ) The operations of aircraft operators holding operating certificates under 14 CFR part 119 for scheduled passenger operations , public charter passenger operations , private charter passenger operations ; the operations of aircraft operators holding operating certificates under 14 CFR part
The indicator must be calibrated to read zero when that tank is actually empty of all usable fuel ( in level flight ) . Bouncing is fine as long as they do not bounce when the tank is actually empty . See regs : <URL> <URL>
As you pointed out in your question , no book is a substitute for actual instruction in an aircraft with a flight instructor . That being said , doing your homework and knowing what your instructor is going to expect goes a long way toward completing your training in a timely manner . The books here are all great reference texts to be combined with a flight instruction curriculum . FAA Publications / Books for initial training A surprising number of new student pilots are not aware of the wealth of information the FAA has compiled and published to help people learn to fly . There is a whole series of <URL> that you can take advantage of which are available from the FAA as well as from a variety of publishers like <URL> . While all of the regulatory information is geared toward US/FAA regulations much of the technique information , signs &amp; markings , etc. will be universal , in conformance with ICAO rules . I list a whole bunch of them here , but you can find a wealth of information by googling what you want to do and the words " FAA Handbook " . Books on Flying the aircraft - maneuvers , etc. . Quite simply if it flies the FAA probably has a book about how you should fly it . These books cover basic flying technique and the maneuvers the FAA expects pilots to be able to demonstrate . The popular ones include : <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-3A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-21A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-13A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-11A ) Books on " essential aviation knowledge " - Airport signs &amp; markings , " rules of the air " , etc. . <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-25A ) is the starting point here . <URL> is another key resource ( you will often find this as a combined " FAR/AIM " printed publication ) . Books for the more advanced stuff - Instrument ratings and beyond <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-15B ) and <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-16 ) are excellent references for pilots pursuing an instrument rating .
Here 's what the regulations say ATC should do : Broadcast on all appropriate frequencies a general caution warning every 5 minutes for 20 minutes following the last report ; Include information on the ATIS broadcast for one hour following the last report ; Report the incident through the Domestic Events Network ( DEN ) , or to their overlying TRACON or ARTCC facility . As for the pilots , lasers are regarded as an emergency , so you are permitted to take evasive action . Other aircraft are also permitted to request clearance to avoid the area . Here are the relevant FAA orders : <URL> : 10-2-14 . UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION OF AIRCRAFT a . When a laser event is reported to an air traffic facility , broadcast on all appropriate frequencies a general caution warning every five minutes for 20 minutes following the last report . PHRASEOLOGY - UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION EVENT , ( location ) , ( altitude ) . b. Terminal facilities must include reported unauthorized laser illumination events on the ATIS broadcast for one hour following the last report . Include the time , location , altitude , color , and direction of the laser as reported by the pilot . NOTE - All personnel can expect aircrews to regard lasers as an inflight emergency and may take evasive action to avoid laser illumination . Additionally , other aircraft may request clearance to avoid the area . <URL> : 2-1-27 . REPORTING UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION OF AIRCRAFT All FAA Air Traffic Control facilities , Federal Contract Towers and Flight Service Stations shall report unauthorized laser illumination incidents through the Domestic Events Network ( DEN ) , providing the following information : a. UTC date and time of event . b. Call Sign , or aircraft registration number . c. Type of aircraft . d. Nearest major city . e. Altitude . f. Location of event ( e.g. , latitude/longitude and/or Fixed Radial Distance ( FRD ) ) . g. Brief description of the event . h. Any other pertinent information . NOTE - Facilities without direct access to the DEN shall forward the information through the overlying TRACON or ARTCC facility
Transport Canada has all the information <URL> for each FAA license type ( and type ratings ) ; the necessary forms and contacts are <URL> . These are the basic requirements for a private pilot , for example : 6.1 Conditions for Conversion - Private Pilot -- Aeroplane . ( 1 ) Must hold an FAA Private airman certificate with airplane category and class rating ( s ) . ( 1 ) Age : Must be at least 17 years of age . ( 2 ) Medical fitness : Must hold either a Category 1 or Category 3 TCCA medical . ( 3 ) Knowledge : Must pass the Conversion - Private Pilot Licence -- Aeroplane , ( FAAPA ) written examination on air laws and communications . Must be able to read , write and communicate in English or French . ( 4 ) Experience : Must provide proof of a minimum of 45 hours pilot flight time . ( 5 ) Skill : No additional practical flight test is required .
The ka-50 , like other <URL> designs , use their contra-spinning rotors to cancel out the torque in the same way a traditional helicopter uses it 's tail rotor . A traditional single rotor : <URL> Contra-rotating rotors : <URL> There are a few <URL> of the contra-rotating setup , such as Reduced vibration Reduced likelihood of <URL> Reduced likelihood of anti-torque failure during flight .
Long story short , maybe . The FAA does n't define " dual time " so it depends how you define it for your own purposes , but in practice most people use it to mean " training time " . There 's no definition of " dual " or " dual time " in 14 CFR <URL> or <URL> and part 61 never mentions it , apart from a couple of references to " dual instruction " . " Dual " is also not used in <URL> . But " training received " is clearly defined , and <URL> says you should log time in general if you need it to satisfy certification or currency requirements : ( a ) Training time and aeronautical experience . Each person must document and record the following time in a manner acceptable to the Administrator : ( 1 ) Training and aeronautical experience used to meet the requirements for a certificate , rating , or flight review of this part . ( 2 ) The aeronautical experience required for meeting the recent flight experience requirements of this part . So in your example , do you need to log the time for a ) certification/currency purposes , and/or b ) as training received ? And if you do log it , is it " dual " ? For certification/currency , it 's usually best to log everything : even if you do n't need to show the FAA something , your insurance company or FBO might ask you for details of your flying time . As for training , in order for a flight to be " training received " , the instructor has to endorse your logbook : ( 2 ) The training time must be logged in a logbook and must : ( i ) Be endorsed in a legible manner by the authorized instructor ; and ( ii ) Include a description of the training given , the length of the training lesson , and the authorized instructor 's signature , certificate number , and certificate expiration date . That 's a simpler case : if the instructor did n't sign your logbook then you did n't receive training . But let 's say that you decide to log the flight for one or both of the reasons above . Is it " dual " ? Well , since there 's no official definition of " dual " then it depends what you use it to mean . Again , practically speaking , most people use " dual " to mean " training " : my <URL> uses it that way , and many paper logbooks seem to as well . So I only log dual if I have a corresponding endorsement from my instructor . ( The software also has options like " instructor on board " or " introductory flight " that I can use for the scenarios you described . ) As a specific example , I did an FBO checkout ride in a new aircraft type a few months ago . I was already rated for the aircraft category/class and the instructor with me did n't endorse my logbook , he just updated the FBO 's internal documentation to state that I 'm now allowed to rent it . So I logged the time as PIC , but not dual .
Ground operations are just as dangerous as air operations . Strictly speaking the <URL> ( not saying seatbelt played a role or not however severe accidents do happen on the ground ) . The comments cover things well , ( <URL> , <URL> etc. ) Planes are not safe simply because they are on the ground , they are only safe from flight related incidents and once on the ground they are susceptible to ground related incidents . <URL> happen a year . The fact remains there are plenty of things to hit on the ground and plenty that can go wrong in taxi . These accidents are <URL> ( RAMP ) and ( GCOL ) codes ( and potentially others ) . <URL> ( taxi and ground ops make up about 10 % ) . <URL> as well as <URL> requires it ... ( 3 ) Except as provided in this paragraph , each person on board a U.S.-registered civil aircraft ( except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola or an airship type certificated before November 2 , 1987 ) must occupy an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and , if installed , shoulder harness , properly secured about him or her during movement on the surface , takeoff , and landing . For seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface , the person pushing off the seaplane or rotorcraft from the dock and the person mooring the seaplane or rotorcraft at the dock are excepted from the preceding seating and safety belt requirements ...
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
end question
start question
In general terms , is a Constant Speed Propellor equiped aircraft more expensive to maintain ?
Yes , they are more expensive because they are more complex . I would not avoid buying a plane simply because it has a CS prop because , in the grand scheme of airplane ownership , CS prop maintenance has a small impact on your hourly cost . Maybe ~ $ 1/hr for a piston single with repetitive ADs . Now , the maintenance of a CS prop can range from a simple visual inspection of about \ $ 100 USD to a complete replacement of the prop ( up to \ $ 15,000 USD , maybe more for large props ) . An owner will likely not do an " overhaul " when the prop reaches TBO but will instead opt for an IRAN ( Inspect , Repair As Necessary ) . This is typically a little cheaper than a full blown overhaul and , from a practical perspective , extends the life of the propeller as an overhaul would . At some point you 'll end up grinding blades and balancing the prop but that 's not annual maintenance . I 've seen the cost quoted at around \ $ 1,500 USD for a high performance piston single IRAN which comes to less than $ 1/hr for a private owner . All in , a CS prop only adds a small amount to the hourly operating cost . In my opinion , the performance gains are worth the cost in most cases .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
There are a few ways that yaw control is achieved . The easiest and the first to be successfully used would be to have cables from rudder pedals on each side of the rudder to deflect the control surface and control yaw . <URL> Airplane Flying Handbook pg 2-1 The first application to control yaw unsuccessfully was the development of gears and linkages that will control both roll and yaw with the pilot stick . It was quickly discovered that there are cases where you may need to use the controls separately . Yaw damper is an electronic device that sense yaw rate and will provide inputs to the rudder to keep the airplane coordinated . <URL> <URL>
This is sort of explained in the <URL> already . Specifically <URL> ( which I consider better than the accepted one above it ) says : Today , high power propeller aircraft tend to use identical engines but left - and right-handed gearboxes so the propellers run in both directions . This is less due to gyro effects and mostly to produce benign stall characteristics . The prop wash of a propeller increases the local angle of attack on the wing on one side and decreases it on the other side , so the wing will stall first on the side with bigger angle of attack . If this side is always to the right of the propellers , the aircraft will roll right in a stall . In a turbofan the nozzle directs the flow below the wing aft of the leading edge , focuses it more and uses guide vanes to stop its rotation , so this effect does not occur . This eliminates the most important factor for deciding to use counter-rotating propellers . Combine with the fact that most turbofans are not geared , so the whole engine would have to be mirrored , which would complicate maintenance a lot more than just having mirrored gearboxes and propellers does for turboprops .
No , for two reasons : Speed of sound is always relative to the material the sound propagates in ; it moves faster through denser media , such as the aluminum structure of the aircraft itself . The aircraft 's structure moves with the aircraft , so the vibrations of the jet engines will be transmitted to the cockpit/cabin at the same speed as when the airplane were flying subsonic . The air inside the cockpit is still , and so sound within this local bubble is unaffected by the speed of the bubble itself ( and so sound can travel faster than sound ) . If this were n't true then radios and other cockpit sound sources like alarms would be inaudible at supersonic speeds , which would be a major safety hazard and tactical disadvantage to supersonic flight . You actually do n't even have any significant aural cues inside the cockpit that you 've exceeded Mach 1 ; you have to rely on your airspeed gauge to tell you .
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
A " circle-to-land " maneuver is basically a low-altitude traffic pattern - albeit one that you arrived at by being guided in on some instrument approach . The magic that makes this low ( and possibly abbreviated ) pattern possible is that the runway ends at airports with circling approaches have protected ( obstacle free ) airspace around them , which looks something like this : ( A more detailed explanation of the size of the circling approach area can be found <URL> . ) Since it 's basically a traffic pattern my understanding is you treat it as such , and that as long as you stay in visual contact with the airport and within the protected airspace ( by visually judging your distance from the field , and knowing your altitude ) you 're unlikely to hit anything , and you can do all your usual pattern maneuvering as long as you can *** visually * be sure you 're within the pretty blue part of the image above ( your GPS cant help you here ) . To see what this means for an example approach with some turns , consider my liberally-stolen and slightly-marked-up diagram below . If you lose contact with your intended runway end for a few seconds because of the turn/bank required at point " A " that 's OK : as long as you can still maintain visual contact with the airport/runway environment when you roll out ( say by looking out the back window ) , and as long as you can remain clear of clouds , and can maintain visual clearance from any potential obstacles you may continue the approach . If you 're flying out and on the leg from " A " to " B " and all of a sudden you look back out the window and the airport is gone in the haze and clouds , you need to go missed : You 've lost the airport/runway environment , and can no longer judge your distance to stay in the " safe " airspace . Similarly if you 're in a high-wing aircraft and your turns at " B " and " C " briefly obscure the airport while you 're turning you can still continue the approach - if you 've any doubt where the airport is just pick up the wing like you would in a VFR pattern ( and if the airport is n't there like it 's supposed to be go missed ! ) Regarding your bird scenario , that 's an interesting one that I do n't think is covered in any diagrams , but if a flock of birds causes you to maneuver in such a way that you lose contact with the airport ( and you ca n't just pick up a wing and have it be right where you expected it to be ) you 're obviously going to have to abandon the approach and go missed . It 's the equivalent of the airport disappearing in the haze on that A-to-B leg . Honestly though , if a flock of birds shows up and hangs out in a way that requires you to start maneuvering around them while you 're trying to shoot a circling approach in real IFR you may want to just go missed anyway ( given the odds this probably wo n't cost you too many approaches ) . In a real world situation with poor visibility , possibly precipitation , and likely a cloud ceiling really close to your altitude , do you really want to try to be maneuvering down low to avoid some stupid bird that could n't even be bothered to call the tower ? Would n't you feel much better pointing the aircraft in a generally " upward " direction and following the nice friendly needle again for a little while ? I 'm just starting my IFR training , but I think I 'd feel better with that option :-)
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
Oddly enough , " common carriage " is not defined in the FAR 's , but that is because it is a " common law term " and not specific to aviation . <URL> contains guidance that can be used to help determine whether or not an operation falls under common carriage . Take a look at it for specific examples , but the " plain language " version is : Common Carriage : A carrier becomes a common carrier when it " holds itself out " to the public , or to a segment of the public . Holding Out : A carrier is holding out when they represent themselves as willing to furnish transportation within the limits of its facilities to any person who wants it . There are lots of ways to " hold out " , but the basic idea is if someone in the general public comes to you and asks you to fly them and you agree , you are probably holding out . Any form of advertising demonstrates a clear sign that you are holding out . There are also other activities that qualify , so look over the AC if you have further questions , and if that does n't answer it your best bet is to contact an aviation lawyer . You could also contact your local FSDO with questions . As far as transporting a third part for hire , both common and private carriage require an air carrier certificate issued under 125 or 135 depending on the size of the airplane1 . This means that your trip for a friend would be in violation because you do n't have the required air carrier operating certificate . ( Thank you @p1l0t for clarifying this for me ! ) <URL> says : Operators engaged in passenger-carrying operations , cargo operations , or both with airplanes when common carriage is not involved . ( a ) Each person who conducts operations when common carriage is not involved with airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of 20 seats or more , excluding each crewmember seat , or a payload capacity of 6,000 pounds or more , shall , unless deviation authority is issued -- ( 1 ) Comply with the certification and operations specifications requirements of part 125 of this chapter ; ( 2 ) Conduct its operations with those airplanes in accordance with the requirements of part 125 of this chapter ; and ( 3 ) Be issued operations specifications in accordance with those requirements . ( b ) Each person who conducts noncommon carriage ( except as provided in Sec . 91.501 ( b ) of this chapter ) or private carriage operations for compensation or hire with airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of less than 20 seats , excluding each crewmember seat , and a payload capacity of less than 6,000 pounds shall -- ( 1 ) Comply with the certification and operations specifications requirements in subpart C of this part ; ( 2 ) Conduct those operations in accordance with the requirements of part 135 of this chapter , except for those requirements applicable only to commuter operations ; and ( 3 ) Be issued operations specifications in accordance with those requirements . The FAA takes a very dim view of people who start competing with actual air carriers and are unlicensed to do so . It 's a quick way to have your license suspended and end up with some hefty fines and other legal troubles . 1 There are of course the regulations that allow operations " in furtherance of a business " which is why I specified a third party .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
Based on its fixed-wing hypersonic design and inordinately high wing loading , I would predict that the X-15 has the highest recommend landing speed of any earthbound aircraft , with a preliminary search seemingly bearing this hypothesis out . According to an ostensibly legitimate NASA source ( link below ) , the X-15 's normal landing speed was 200 + mph ( 173.8 kts = 321.9 kph ) , <URL> But if unofficial sources are to be believed , its actual landing speed was much higher , closer to 390kph = 208kts ( although these numbers are admittedly more dubious ) : " According to an early edition of ' the Guinness book of world records ' the X15 also holds the record for fastest landing speed at 242 mph compared with 210 mph for the space shuttle . " <URL> If only powered aircraft are open to consideration , then the F-104 Starfighter would have to be up there as well . It needed a blown-flap flow control system just to be sane during landing ... " To make landing speeds " reasonable , " The F-104 forced engine air through the wings to smooth the airflow and give more lift . With bleed air , the Zipper could land at the challenging but not extreme speed of 160 to 165 knots . If the air-bleed system was not working , landing speeds climbed to 240 knots . " <URL> So , if mechanical failure scenarios are deemed admissible , then the F-104 without its crucial boundary layer control systems would be the clear winner for powered landing speed , weighing in at an absolutely terrifying 240 kts . Otherwise , it would appear that the X-15 ( unofficially ) reigns supreme .
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
The flashing lights help to make the airplane more noticeable . They have also been <URL> to <URL> . This is offered as an option or <URL> for <URL> of aircraft . In addition to helping the pilots to see ahead of them when on the ground in dark conditions , landing lights help to make planes more visible to others . The FAA requires landing lights to be on for commercial flights under 10,000 feet , and <URL> at least when near an airport or in low visibility . Flashing the lights makes them less likely to be confused for something like a star at night .
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
ICAO has defined in their Annexes that English is only one of the available langauges to ICAO and that ATS should either use the language specified in the country 's AIP or use English . 1.2.9 Language proficiency 1.2.9.1 Aeroplane , airship , helicopter and powered-lift pilots , air traffic controllers and aeronautical station operators shall demonstrate the ability to speak and understand the language used for radiotelephony communications to the level specified in the language proficiency requirements in Appendix 1 . Note 2 . -- The provisions of 1.2.9 refer to Annex 10 , Volume II , Chapter 5 , whereby the language used for radiotelephony communications may be the language normally used by the station on the ground or English . In practice , therefore , there will be situations whereby flight crew members will only need to speak the language normally used by the station on the ground . Personally , additional to my proficiency level in English , I also hold a Level 6 language proficiency German in my pilot 's license . Below is a screenshot of the Aerodrome Description for LEBL/Barcelona , taken from Spain 's AIP . You see that ES/EN is listed as available languages . <URL> If you are looking for Spanish Phraseology , you can find it with <URL> .
end question
start question
Do French , Spanish , Italian , and Greek controllers still speak to their native pilots in their native language ?
Well , I just pulled up LEMD on LiveATC and heard some Spanish there . So Madrid clearly speaks Spanish sometimes , although it 's probably not very busy right now ( 5:30 AM there ) . Archives from midday for LFPO and LFBD ( Orly and Bordeaux ) have plenty of French . Archives from midday for LGAV ( Athens ) approach has something definitely non-English ( I ca n't tell if it 's Greek or not , but I ca n't imagine anything else it 'd be ) ; LGAV has heavy use of English , but it 's not exclusively English . And LiveATC has no feeds for Italy . So , for three of them the answer is definitely " yes , they still speak not-English ; " for the last , LiveATC ca n't answer .
There is one frequency per sector and there can be two controllers per sector , one working the scope / talking to aircraft and one assisting with flight strips and coordination with adjacent sectors . If the sector does not require a second controller to coordinate and assist with flight strips , there will only be one controller doing all tasks single-handedly . In some cases , two sectors are combined and both frequencies are manned by the same controller , but this is only done in low-traffic times , where overlapping transmissions have a low probability . A good and well-written source to understand how ATC sectors and split workload works is the AVWeb Series of <URL> . See this related question for more information : <URL>
FORTRAN is not used much that I 'm aware of in aviation , but it is significantly used in aeronautical engineering . I work with people that use Mark Drela 's ' xfoil ' , ' xrotor ' and ' aswing ' programs on a daily basis for the design and analysis of airfoils , propellers and aerostructures . And I 've used the ' CHARM ' model of rotorcraft dynamics . All of these are written in FORTRAN and you often need to know the language to debug them or integrate them into other programs e.g. for global design optimization .
How do makers get data from aircraft in flight The data is usually transmitted using something like <URL> which is a system used in aircraft to transmit data in flight using underlying radio and satellite communications systems . The communications infrastructure is typically provided by large multinational companies who specialise in this job . See ARINC , SITA , Inmarsat and so on . Engine-makers and Aircraft makers often offer pro-active maintenance and support services to airlines , operators and lessors which involve their aircraft transmitting such data to the makers . For example , Airbus has <URL> Airbus Real Time Health Monitoring ( AiRTHM ) is an advanced service through which A380 and A350 XWB operators can receive guidance on optimised maintenance and real-time troubleshooting actions . As part of this effort , a dedicated 24/7 team takes advantage of the uplink technology to further investigate and anticipate warnings/fault consequences . The uplink technology allows real-time remote access to aircraft data parameters via the ACARS digital datalink system , enabling Airbus AiRTHM engineers to deliver maintenance and technical advice both in flight and on the ground . Boeing have <URL> AHM sutomatically monitors , collects and transmits service levels using ACARS through the installed Aircraft Condition Monitoring System ( ACMS ) Note that ACARS is a relatively low-volume data transmission system . Makers have explored other underlying communication systems as a way to transmit more data at lower cost . How is this data stored It is true that there is a lot of data but Boeing and Airbus are big businesses and are able to partner with major IT businesses . For example <URL> " Today 's aircraft can generate up to a half terabyte of data per flight , an unprecedented volume and variety of data seen in few other industries , " said Timothy Wholey , IBM global leader for the aerospace and defense industry in its global business services unit . Note - not all data has to be transmitted in flight . A lot of data is collected and stored in the plane and only transferred when the aircraft is on the ground . Makers like Airbus and Boeing inevitably are already very heavy users of IT for aircraft design purposes . For example , <URL>
The simplest answer to your question is that the F-16 has not yet been retired because , for its cost , there 's nothing better being built in enough numbers to replace the nearly 4500 Falcons produced . The F-16 was designed on the trailing edge of a surge in technological development by the U.S. military in the wake of Vietnam . The U.S. had fought that war with an air force primarily designed for a standoff engagement with the Soviet Union directly , thus emphasizing interceptor-style fighters targeting bombers at extreme range using missiles . Robert McNamara , U.S. SecDef for the Johnson and Nixon administrations , also emphasized a " one-size-fits-all " approach to aircraft design , requiring the USAF and Navy to collaborate on common aircraft designs that covered a multitude of mission profiles . This created the F-4 , a fast but heavy plane that was a handful to fly , weaknesses that were exploited by pilots of technologically-inferior MiG-19 and MiG-21 aircraft in close combat engagements that the Phantom was ill-prepared to fight . The lesson " dogfighting is n't dead " prompted a renaissance in jet fighter design in the 70s , producing the F-14 and F-15 long-range air superiority fighters , and the smaller F-16 and F/A -18 multirole fighters . Maneuverability , a wide range of weapons from guns to long-range missiles , and high pilot situational awareness by reducing workload and integrating flight and fire control systems , were all emphasized strongly . The Soviets were taken somewhat by surprise at this surge ; as of when the F-16 first flew , the Soviet air force and those of its allies had nothing that could compete . They answered a few years later with the MiG-29 , a smaller twin-engine design similar to the larger Su-27 which was in pre-production to answer the F-15 . These six fighters - F-14 , F-15 , F-16 , F/A -18 , MiG-29 and Su-27 - represented the cutting edge of fighter design as of the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . The new U.S. designs to enter production since , the F-22 Raptor and F-35 Lightning II , are themselves fairly old ; the first production F-22 was built in in 1996 and flew in 1997 , almost 20 years ago , the result of a design competition with planes flying back in 1990 , and the initial RFP originating in the 1980s . The F-35 first flew in 2006 , itself derived from the X-35 JSF testbed which first flew in 2000 , so that design is between 10 and 15 years old now depending on how you count . Their protracted development times are a direct result of the reduction in pace of the U.S.-Russian arms race since 1991 ; with no other technologically-advanced military adversary on the horizon , there simply has n't been the impetus to get these planes out to the front lines ( there is some civilian talk of restarting the F-22 production line to bolster Raptor numbers , as the Sukhoi PAK-FA and Chengdu J-20 are very close to production and the F-35 is way behind projections and proving a disappointment so far , but another 100 new Raptors are projected to cost a ludicrous $ 225 million each due to increased costs of restarting the line and producing them in parallel with the F-35 ) . The F-35 also had the handicap of being a return to the " one-size-fits-all " design mentality , being intended as a replacement for practically everything besides the Raptor in the U.S. air arsenal , Air Force , Navy and Marines , with an F or A in its designation . That 's caused a lot of technological headaches , since any replacement for the Marines ' AV-8B Harrier is going to need STOVL capability , and the Navy and Air Force have always had a different though overlapping set of requirements relating to the Navy 's basic need to operate aircraft from a ship at sea that 's maybe a fifth as long as the USAF 's minimum runway length requirements for its airbases . The resulting design is big , heavy , and relies on the most powerful single engine the U.S. has ever put in a fighter , which pushes the boundaries of the stress limits of the materials we use to make jet engines . Lastly , military spending in the last 10 years or so has been preoccupied with developing and fielding technology to fight a low-tech insurgency ; our enemies know they ca n't beat us in a toe-to-toe fight , so they do n't fight that way , instead targeting our multi-million-dollar military hardware with Vietnam-era milsurp RPGs and oil-drum IEDs costing maybe $ 100 a shot . On this kind of battlefield , stealth air-superiority aircraft are kind of redundant as the enemy does n't even have radar , much less an air force to exercise superiority over . That 's why the F-22 has never seen real combat ; the U.S. has enjoyed " air supremacy " by default in its primary combat theaters , as its enemies have never fielded an air force to speak of .
There is nothing " special " about an aircraft engine that requires lead in the fuel -- Engines do n't much care about the lead in tetraethyl lead , nor do they much care for it ( it gets everywhere , fouling sparkplugs and contaminating the oil ) . What they care about is the octane ( anti-knock ) rating of the fuel . Many " low performance " aircraft engines run just fine on unleaded fuels with a lower octane rating ( among them the Lycoming O-320 and O-360 family that power a good chunk of the GA fleet ) , but high-performance aircraft engines ( e.g. the IO-520 you 'll find in Beech Bonanzas ) require a 100 octane fuel . The approved specification for 100 octane aviation gasoline ( <URL> ) lists tetraethyl lead as the octane booster of choice . It 's also worth noting that some of the octane boosting techniques used in automotive gasoline are not acceptable for aircraft engines ( the most common in the US being the addition of ethanol , which has two undesirable effects : reducing the energy content of the fuel , and damaging aviation fuel system seals and other components ) . So why do we still make 100LL , and why do n't we offer the other unleaded options at every airport ? Aviation gasoline is a minuscule slice of the gasoline market , so it does n't make sense to have 5 tanks with 5 different grades of fuel at every airport : All aircraft engines will run on 100LL , so 100LL ( leaded ) aviation gasoline is still produced because it is a " single fuel " solution to piston aviation 's needs . If leaded avgas were to disappear tomorrow the engines that require it would be left without an approved fuel , which would result in those aircraft being grounded until such time as an alternative fuel could be developed or the engine manufacturers develop a procedure for derating the engines ( operating them at reduced power ) . For obvious reasons neither of these options is attractive , particularly to folks who own higher-power engines which were presumably purchased for the performance ... Changing the avgas specification is quite a bit of work - it requires ensuring that the new fuel is a " drop-in replacement " for 100LL -- one which can be mixed with 100LL in any proportion , and will work correctly in any engine designed for 100LL fuel . <URL> ( a Google search for also produces useful results ) , and hopefully a universal unleaded aviation fuel specification and one or more products will come out of those efforts .
The best approach is to start a new logbook with totals that carry over from your latest FAA 8710 - in this case , it sounds like you will roll back to the hours from when you earned your private pilot certificate . There are <URL> , but it 's unlikely any of them will work for your situation ( except , perhaps for " Receipts for aircraft rentals " , if your FBO is still open and still has the records ) . You can request a copy of your 8710 from the FAA , which I 'm gon na quote here because that 's the best way to not screw anything up : Airmen who have lost their logbooks or flight records may request copies of their files from the FAA [ by sending <URL> ] to the following : FAA Airmen Certification Branch , AFS-760 P.O. Box 25082 Oklahoma City , OK 73125 or FAA Aeromedical Certification P.O. Box 25082 Oklahoma City , OK 73125 Once you receive the copy , the first line in your new logbook should probably summarize all the totals from the 8710 ( just like if it was a flight ) . The remarks would specify " time forward from 8710 dated DD/MM/YYY " or something to that effect . Best of luck getting your records back !
No , you still have to monitor the underlying NAVAID . You just have to read further in that same section of the AIM . Reference the most recent edition of the AIM , which has Change 3 dated April 27 , 2017 . In section 1-2-3-c-5 it says : Use of a suitable RNAV system as a means to navigate on the final approach segment of an instrument approach procedure based on a VOR , TACAN or NDB signal , is allowable . The underlying NAVAID must be operational and the NAVAID monitored for final segment course alignment . That last sentence in the quote above is the important part .
This is what I could find . I looked on the Civil Aviation Authority 's website and found this article . <URL> Families , children and infants The seating of children close by their parents or guardians should be the aim of airline seat allocation procedures for family groups and large parties of children . Young children and infants who are accompanied by adults , should ideally be seated in the same seat row as the adult . Children and accompanying adults should not be separated by more than one aisle . Where this is not possible , children should be separated by no more than one seat row from accompanying adults . This is because the speed of an emergency evacuation may be affected by adults trying to reach their children . Whenever a number of infants and children are travelling together the airline should make every effort to ensure that they can be readily supervised by the responsible accompanying adults . From what I read , it does n't look like there is a law set in stone , but instead it is recommended by the CAA to be put in regular practice by airlines . If there was a law then Ryanair would have been in serious trouble for charging people extra money to sit next to their kids . <URL>
The practice of naming aircraft probably comes from the days of the flying boat , and the naval tradition of naming ships - <URL> had many named aircraft , and <URL> . Other airlines of the period had similar naming practices ( I 'm not sure who started it , but Pan Am 's fleet was well known for it ) . As a marketing tool telling folks they 're flying on " Clipper Emerald Isle from New York to Dublin " may have been more attractive to passengers than " Pan Am Flight 12345 " or N880PA . Particularly before the commoditization of air travel , when flying was still a new and novel form of transportation , having a connection back to familiar " sailing " metaphors may have helped get passengers on board and could help differentiate your service from another airline . Modern airlines do n't seem to push their aircraft naming as much as historic carriers did , but <URL> - in fact Lufthansa paints their plane names onto the fuselage , though I 'm not sure if they announce them to passengers . A skilled marketing department could build a brand around ship names , but I 'm not aware of any airline doing so today .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
The ceiling is the lowest altitude where clouds cover more than half of the sky . This is important because climbing above that altitude means you will most likely have to fly through clouds . <URL> and pilots are required to have special training to fly in low visibility . If the ceiling is too low , pilots ca n't be at a safe altitude above the ground and out of the clouds at the same time . Low ceilings are also critical for landing , and may require pilots to make an <URL> . <URL> refers to UTC time , which is the universal coordinated time . Zulu or UTC time is helpful as a worldwide reference in fields like aviation , to avoid issues like dealing with changing between local time zones . The ATIS will contain the Zulu time that it was updated so pilots know how recent the information is . The dew point in relation to the temperature gives the pilots information about the humidity , and can affect visibility . If the dew point is close to the temperature , humidity is high , which can cause hazy conditions , or even fog . As with the ceiling , this can warn pilots of possible changes in conditions that will make it harder to see the ground or other aircraft while in flight . In terms of aircraft performance , the dew point is also needed to determine the true <URL> , when <URL> . A high dew point means a higher density altitude , which reduces aircraft performance . Dew point is also very important in certain helicopters with carburetors , like the Robinson R-22 and R-44 helicopters , which are subject to carb icing even during take-off because they only use as-required power rather than full throttle . In this case , carb heat needs to be applied whenever the temp/dew point spread is 15C or less . Here is the citation from the <URL> : <URL>
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
ICAO has defined in their Annexes that English is only one of the available langauges to ICAO and that ATS should either use the language specified in the country 's AIP or use English . 1.2.9 Language proficiency 1.2.9.1 Aeroplane , airship , helicopter and powered-lift pilots , air traffic controllers and aeronautical station operators shall demonstrate the ability to speak and understand the language used for radiotelephony communications to the level specified in the language proficiency requirements in Appendix 1 . Note 2 . -- The provisions of 1.2.9 refer to Annex 10 , Volume II , Chapter 5 , whereby the language used for radiotelephony communications may be the language normally used by the station on the ground or English . In practice , therefore , there will be situations whereby flight crew members will only need to speak the language normally used by the station on the ground . Personally , additional to my proficiency level in English , I also hold a Level 6 language proficiency German in my pilot 's license . Below is a screenshot of the Aerodrome Description for LEBL/Barcelona , taken from Spain 's AIP . You see that ES/EN is listed as available languages . <URL> If you are looking for Spanish Phraseology , you can find it with <URL> .
Because the pitch of the <URL> is not related to the pitch of the seats . The windows placement have to cut through as few frames as possible . You can see it in the following picture , noting that frames are " highlighted " by the vertical riveting Image <URL> It is even more evident in the picture contained in <URL> on UX.SE : Because the aircraft is designed once , but " decorated " by several airlines in several different manners . For example , an A320 or a B757 will have the windows always in the same locations , but depending on the airline that is using it , it will most probably have the seats in slightly different locations .
In general ATC is not aware of any RA occurring in aircraft , and is neither aware of the RA content . The crew informs ATC using a phraseology described in ICAO <URL> PANS-ATM , Chapter 12 , Para 12.3.1.2 : When the RA occurs , and the crew must deviate from ATC instructions , they inform ATC with " TCAS RA " when possible . If an ATC instruction is received , which contradicts a current RA , they inform ATC with " Unable , TCAS RA " . The crew then informs ATC when the RA has ended , with " Clear of conflict , returning to ( the ATC clearance ) " , and " resumed " when done . As @J . Hougaard mentioned , there are some experimentation going on to downlink RA to ATCO display , but nothing mandatory , the information displayed varies and somehow conflict , or introduces a confusion , with ICAO recommendations . So far it seems <URL> capability . More on <URL> . When informed , ATC does n't provide further instructions to this aircraft before receiving the " clear of conflict " confirmation . RA always takes precedence on ATC and must be followed by the crew , even if the crew has the intruder in sight and another safe maneuver could be executed as well . The reason is because there is no certainty that the aircraft they have in sight is the conflicting one , or is the only conflicting one . See <URL> and <URL> . ( Indeed a pilot can deviate from anything , but must later demonstrate that they were justified in doing this ) .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
It varies . Some airports charge by landing , others by operation ( a series of landings if training ) . Some charge through the FBO , who may waive the fee with fuel purchase . Expect that multiple landings at BOS or JFK will result in multiple fees , often billed to the registered owner . It was a while ago , but I did a series ( about 12 ) of landings at BOS one night , and the owner/operator paid 25 dollars each . Someone told me recently that the fee was more like $ 65 now for a Cessna P210 . To be clear , call the airport and ask them , or check their web page , which may have their charges and rules on it . And/or check with an FBO or two at the field .
end question
start question
Do fighters or bombers ever ditch their weapons ?
Yes they do . You can <URL> . That 's a failed launch from an aircraft carrier , the crew jettisoned the bombs before they ejected . More information here : <URL> , emphasis on use in aircraft carrier launches , hardpoints also carry external fuel tanks . ... if forced to land in an emergency ? If not , why ? For extreme military emergencies , which usually never end well , pilots have the option to just bail out ( eject ) and parachute to safety . For big bombers , like the B-52 , the crew can also eject . But ca n't dump fuel . <URL> But the question is about weapons , so again yes , mainly for carrier launches , else , a crew ejection is more likely . <URL> for fuel dumping by USAF planes ( USAF report , PDF ) , if interested .
When pilots are trained for flying in an aircraft type they have not flown in before , they go through type rating , then line training . During the type rating , they learn where all the instruments and buttons are , what starts which system , how the plane behaves , how to land and auto-land etc. . During line training , they spend time in the cockpit together with an instructor pilot , usually a senior captain . Most airlines have a 3-person crew in the cockpit when a new F/O is receiving line training . This training is about the airline specific bit of flying , company procedures etc. . Note that before going to type rating , the pilot already has at least a commercial flying license : they can fly already . Depending on the country , the type rating can take place in a Level D simulator for 100 % . Some countries still require a couple of actual flights in an aircraft , but there is an increasing trend to use Level D simulators only , for two reasons : Back when the airlines paid and arranged for type ratings , it was relatively simple for them to arrange for an aircraft for a training flight , empty or not . But now a majority of type ratings is self funded , how does a student find the finance to charter an empty aircraft ? The realism of Level D simulators is incredible . My office used to be not far from the simulators - every once in a while I would hear the siren for the sim coming down at an unscheduled time , for an unscheduled break : the stress level inside is real , you reckon that you are really 30,000 feet up with an engine on fire , alarms sounding , actual ( non-toxic ) smoke entering the cockpit , etc. . After clearing the emergency , some students needed time to reflect . <URL> <URL> that we need 30,000 new pilots every year for the next 20 years . How do we streamline it such that all competent persons can become pilots , not only people with enough money to charter a plane ? As @user71659 points out , at airlines that only fly widebodies , standard entry position is a second officer/relief first officer/cruise pilot on a long haul plane like the 777 . ( Cathay Pacific , Singapore Airlines , Emirates , for example ) .
Short answer : For clarification : Equivalence between biplane and monoplane means than both have the same wing area and the same engine . Then the main differences in maneuvering are : The biplane has better roll acceleration than an equivalent monoplane . The biplane has a higher roll rate than an equivalent monoplane at the same speeds . All biplane flying takes place at lower speeds , resulting in a lower space requirement for all maneuvers . This also means that inertial effects are less pronounced : When pulling up , there is less kinetic energy available for climbing , so ( for example ) hammerhead turns will end with less altitude gain . Differences in handling : The biplane has lower aileron forces for the same roll rate at the same speed lighter control forces overall due to lower flight speed Differences in performance : shorter take-off and landing distances a lower stall speed a much lower maximum speed a lower optimum cruise speed and range a lower power requirement due to the lower flying speeds , or if both use the same engine , a better power-to-weight ratio when compared to an equivalent monoplane . These differences are most pronounced if the airplane carries just the pilot and not much payload . Flying techniques are the same as for monoplanes . Indirectly , differences are likely due to differences in design . Example : Few biplanes profit from having a retractable landing gear while gear retraction makes sense for monoplanes with higher power loading ( installed power relative to wing area ) . Explanation Biplanes have two major differences : Smaller wing span at the same wing area , and Wire bracing results in very lightweight biplane wings . The smaller span reduces roll damping and roll inertia , so a biplane will accelerate into a roll more quickly than an equivalent monoplane and will reach a higher roll rate . This is the main difference in maneuvering . The smaller wing span results in more induced drag if both have the same mass and the same speed . With wire bracing , this condition is unrealistic , and an equivalent biplane will be much lighter . If the structure is a substantial part of the aircraft 's mass ( this is typical for aerobatic airplanes ) , the result can easily be less induced drag , despite the lower span , and also lower wing loading . This in turn means that both fly at different speeds : The biplane will be able to fly much slower , but the aerodynamic drag of the bracing will restrict it to low speeds . This also means inertial effects are less pronounced : The lower mass and lower speed of the biplane combine for a marked difference to the equivalent monoplane . For aerobatic displays this is ideal : All action takes place close to the audience , and the biplane will need a much smaller area for all maneuvers than an equivalent , but heavier monoplane . The downside are low maximum speed and low range . Another difference in performance are much shorter take-off and landing distances due to the lower wing loading , which results in a lower stall speed . The optimum endurance and optimum range speeds are lower than those of an equivalent monoplane as well , so all biplane flying happens at lower speeds , which is beneficial for training aircraft . Since control forces are proportional to dynamic pressure , a biplane will have lower control forces than an equivalent monoplane . Here equivalence also means that the relative chord of all control surfaces is the same . In reality , a good designer will select a higher relative chord for the biplane 's control surfaces to ensure that control forces are above their required minimum . The heavy , unreliable engines of the early years made biplanes the ideal way of taking to the air . Once engines became more powerful and allowed higher payloads , the monoplane became better suited to carrying passengers and freight at higher speeds and over longer distances .
Because many copter autopilots are capable of flying a Cat I ILS to 200AGL , and then descending on autopilot into a hover at a pre-determined altitude above the runway . The pilot can then descend down to the runway surface without any forward visibility . The radar altimeter is used to judge distance to the ground . Because of the unique capabilities of helicopters and their autopilots , Cat II and Cat III are superfluous .
1 ) Technology is fallible . 2 ) Humans are fallible . Now that aircraft have GPS receivers it is rare for them to be off course by a considerable margin . That said , technology can fail and there are cases where the GPS can not , or should not , be used . The crew can also make mistakes , either by incorrectly reading the navigation data or by incorrectly entering flight path details into the navigation system : An aircraft may actually be ' on course ' based on what the crew told it to do , but they told it the wrong thing . Depending on how data is entered into the system it 's easy to add the wrong waypoint ( some have very similar names , there 's been a few cases of that happening ) or to enter reciprocal bearings or lat/lon points . On top of that there 's simple crew distraction - if they 're manually flying then they may be focussing on something else and not notice that are off-course : As happened on the Sukhoi superjet demonstration flight a few years ago .
An InFO ( Information For Operators ) document is an informational document containing recommendations . Quoting directly from <URL> : Much like a <URL> , which contains critical safety information , an Information for Operators ( INFO ) message contains valuable information for operators that should help them meet administrative requirements or certain regulatory requirements with relatively low urgency or impact in safety . INFOs contain information or a combination of information and recommended action to be taken by the respective operators identified in each individual INFO . They are not regulatory changes/obligations ( like ADs ) or formal notices of violation ( administrative actions ) - they 're just a " friendly hint " that the FAA is concerned about something and would like operators to be aware of it and take action if the operator 's analysis determines it to be necessary . If the situation addressed in an InFO or SAFO document does n't improve it may wind up prompting a regulatory change . The InFO and SAFO programs are very similar , so <URL> covering the SAFO program may also be of interest .
There have been a couple of examples - the <URL> , for example , had a retractable pontoon below the hull ( and retractable wing floats ) , though it was an one-off experimental aircraft with a single flight to its credit . <URL> Blackburn B20 , image from <URL> As a more widespread example , the <URL> 's wing floats were retracted electrically after takeoff . <URL> Catalina 's retractable wing float ; image from <URL> Retractable floats have been used in other aircraft too - like the <URL> and the <URL> . Some designs like the <URL> featured retractable floats , which were later removed due to issues . A little more digging reveals that the German <URL> had retractable floats quite early - during WWI ! . However , I doubt it counts as the aircraft never went past taxiing stage . <URL> Ursinus WD 10 fighter seaplane , image from <URL>
Well into WWII , quite a few French aircraft had the throttle reversed - with full throttle to the rear . The French also customized the imported aircraft in WWII to this effect . From the book <URL> by Col. John . D. Current : ... Officially designated Curtiss H75-C1 , the aircraft ... had instruments calibrated for the metric system , ... a French style throttle which operated in reverse from U.S. and British aircraft ( full throttle was to the rear rather than to the front ) ... From <URL> about the same aircraft : The Hawk 75A-1 was powered by the Pratt &amp; Whitney R-1830-SC-G engine , with an international rating of 900 hp at 12,000 feet and 950 hp for takeoff . ... A modified seat was fitted to accommodate the French Lemercier back parachute . The throttle operated in the " French fashion " , i.e. in the reverse direction to the throttles of British or US aircraft . Looks like the French <URL> the <URL> too ( though I 'm not absolutely sure about this ) : ... the French were looking for a replacement for their ground attack T-6s . ... The French did however acquire 148 A models that were in storage at Davis-Montham . They then changed the engines , ( removed the R-1300 and installed the R-1820-76A ) , reversed the throttle operation , ( forward is closed aft is open ?? why do this ? ) ... These planes were then used by the French in Algeria from the end of 1960 until the end of the war in July of 1962 . Not only the French , the Italians and Japanese also used reversed throttles , which caused quite a few problems in service , as the <URL> notes : In the brief German use , Veltros had at least five losses by accidents , often caused by the inverted throttle used on Italian aircraft ( In German and Allied fighters the " open throttle " position was forward , not back , and this was the source of several errors ) . The Italians too faced problems with this difference in controls . According to <URL> : In the summer of 1943 at Vicenza airport I made my first acquaintance with the " Gustavo " , a Messerschmitt fighter of the G-6 version . I was among pilots from 23 ° and 150 ° Gruppo Caccia to get first flights in the German plane that had been entering service at the Regia Aeronautica for few months . We had two main difficulties on test taxing at the Vicentine airport . 1 ) The gas throttle had an inverted movement compared to Italian vehicles . [ The Italians like the French used a reversed throttle in their planes . TNi ] 2 ) The Plane had hydraulic pedal brakes instead of pneumatic ones with differential command like on other Italian vehicles .
24 December 1982 ; CAAC Ilyushin 18B ; Canton ( Guangzhou ) , China : The aircraft was on a scheduled domestic flight when an onboard fire broke out as a result of a carelessly discarded cigarette . The aircraft landed and the passengers and crew evacuated , but 25 of the 50 passengers were killed . All 11 crew members survived . <URL>
Not according to the authors of <URL> <URL> Despite impressive technological achievements and great expectations all around , the service 's business performance ultimately proved an abject failure . In the ten years before Verizon finally pulled the plug , Airfone generated only 50 million total calls , a fraction of the calls carried daily by cellular companies . While the Airfone service was heavily used when bad weather caused significant delays , the system 's utilization at other times was extremely low . A typical plane was equipped with as many as 60 phones . From these , the average large jet generated fewer than 100 calls per day in about 16 hours of flying time . As a result , the expensive system , with its heavy load of fixed costs , remained idle well over 99 % of the time . ... While Airfone claimed that some customers ' monthly bills topped out at $ 4,000 , there were not nearly enough of them to sustain the service 's sky-high fixed costs . ... Within a few years of the service 's launch , airlines started to remove the expensive phone infrastructure from their cabins , since the Airfone cost them more in increased fuel consumption ( because of the system 's weight ) than it generated revenues through their revenue sharing arrangement with Verizon . My emphasis .
The primary ( and most effective ) method to slow the jet down is aerobraking . In the T-38 at ~ 130 knots full aft stick is applied at a rate that prevents the jet from becoming airborne again . The stick will be back towards the seat pan . Fly the nosewheel down to the runway at ~ 100 knots and apply wheel brakes . In the F-16 the max aerobraking occurs at 13 AOA with speed brakes extended . You do not want to exceed 15 degrees of pitch angle to prevent scraping the burner can and speed brakes . The speed brakes will not fully extend while the nosewheel is not on the runway ( however , it can be overridden but increases the possibility that the speed brakes will scrape ) . In either case you do not want to let the nosewheel fall . You also do NOT apply wheel braking until the nosewheel is down .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
Airbus aircraft have 3 hydraulic systems ( Green , Blue , Yellow ) . Green is pressurized by left engine , Yellow by right engine , and each one can be pressurized by the other using the PTU . In addition the Yellow circuit has an electric pump . The Blue circuit is a backup pressurized on demand by several means ( electric pump and RAT ) . Each circuit powers different aircraft components : <URL> Source : <URL> The choice of which engine ( s ) to use is based on the need to have pressure : For brakes For nose wheel steering system . Normal brakes and nose wheel steering are pressurized by the Green system . The brake accumulator must be pressurized , this can be done by running the an electric pump without starting an engine . . Engines are numbered 1 for left , 2 for right on twin-engined aircraft and from left to right ( 1/2 and then 3/4 ) for four-engined aircraft . From <URL> : Which Engine to Use ? A320 Family : ENG 1 A330 : ENG 1 A340 : Outer engines ( ENG 1 + 4 ) Why ? A320 Family : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) YELLOW HYD pressurized via ELEC PUMP PTU is not needed A330 : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN + BLUE HYD HYD BLUE ensures ACCU PRESS ELEC PUMP are not needed A340 ( outer engines when possible -- exception would be a narrow taxiway and FOD risk ) : ENG 1 + 4 pressurize GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) Check ACCU PRESS normal before ENG start ELEC PUMP are not needed
Well , I just pulled up LEMD on LiveATC and heard some Spanish there . So Madrid clearly speaks Spanish sometimes , although it 's probably not very busy right now ( 5:30 AM there ) . Archives from midday for LFPO and LFBD ( Orly and Bordeaux ) have plenty of French . Archives from midday for LGAV ( Athens ) approach has something definitely non-English ( I ca n't tell if it 's Greek or not , but I ca n't imagine anything else it 'd be ) ; LGAV has heavy use of English , but it 's not exclusively English . And LiveATC has no feeds for Italy . So , for three of them the answer is definitely " yes , they still speak not-English ; " for the last , LiveATC ca n't answer .
Yes , they do , and it can indeed pose significant problems for aircraft . Asphalt runways are susceptible to ruts ( because asphalt is n't really solid - it 's solid aggregate suspended in an extremely viscous liquid ) . The friction ( heat ) from landings partially melts the asphalt , and the weight of the aircraft slowly pushes it outward away from the landing gear , creating ruts . ( There are also other ways you can cause ruts on asphalt runways , such as <URL> ) . Concrete runways are theoretically less susceptible to rutting , but have their own maintenance challenges . Runways can also develop potholes , cracks , and spalling - just like a road surface . Because a pothole can cause loss of control on landing ( if the landing gear falls into it and blows a tire or yanks the plane to one side ) , or serious damage to aircraft engines ( if some of the material ejected from the pothole gets pulled into a jet engine 's intake or kicked up by a propeller ) airports take a lot of effort to prevent ( and where necessary , repair ) this kind of damage , and <URL> . Airports also do a lot of preventative maintenance on their runways , sealing open cracks and joints in the pavement material to prevent water from infiltrating under the runway and causing potholes ( see the image below - click to enlarge ) . <URL> The FAA has a lot of information on <URL> , which I will affectionately call " More than anyone ever wanted to know about runway design , and never asked ! "
It has happened before . There are definite cases of light civilian aircraft landing on a carrier , the most well known was in April 1975 when South Vietnamese Air Force Major Buang Lee landed an O-1 Bird Dog on the deck of the USS Midway trying to escape with his wife and 5 children from the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces . Landing aboard an aircraft carrier presents several difficulties , namely limited landing roll and available deck space . A Nimitz Class carrier is just shy of 1100 feet in total length and 250 ft at its widest point . The designated landing area or LA is approx 75 x 650 ft. The ship is capable of steaming at 30 + kts so it can develop quite a bit of wind over the flight deck reducing the effective unarrested landing roll . Then you need to stop the aircraft once it 's on the deck . Carrier based fixed wing jets use tailhooks designed to work with the arresting gear and reduce the landing roll to about 330 feet . The largest carrier aircraft in service were the Douglas A-3 and the Grumman C-2 and E-2 , each one about the size of a regional jet . The largest aircraft which I am aware of which made a successful unarrested landing was a Lockheed C-130 . Large commercial aircraft like a Boeing 747 or an Airbus A-380 simply can not fit on the deck without the wings clipping the island or other deck antennas , etc , not to mention requiring landing rolls of over 3000 ft even in the most extreme short field attempts . So HAS a carrier aided a civilian passenger flight via recovery operations ? Yes but only with small aircraft . COULD a carrier aid in recovering larger commercial aircraft ? Possible depending on the size of the aircraft , its loadout and fuel state and performance capabilities .
Both the KC-135 and KC-10 can burn the fuel it carries on board for refueling ( the notable exception was the KC-135Q , which carried separate tanks of JP-7 for the SR-71 Blackbird ) . Both indeed do have significant fuselage tanks - the KC-10 is notable for being ' dual-mission ' capable , meaning it can carry both fuel and cargo , and the KC-10 is also air-refuelable ( so a KC-135 can offload extra gas into a KC-10 when their <URL> is up , allowing the KC-10 to stay on station and refuel other planes longer ) . The maximum fuel load of a KC-10 is 356,000 pounds . This is over 7 full loads of gas for a B-52 ( B-52G and H could carry 308,000 lbs of fuel , so 365,000 capacity of KC-10 would potentially fully fuel a B-52 one time , with enough fuel left to get the KC-10 home . Of course the B-52 would never be completely empty in the air so the KC-10 would not need to offload the full 308,000 lbs ) , or 30 full loads for an F-16 with external tanks , and the maximum fuel load of a KC-135 is 200,000 pounds , or over 4 full loads of gas for a B-52 . As for how much of the fuselage is taken up by fuel tanks , you can look at cutaways of the <URL> and <URL> ( unfortunately the captions for the KC-10 are in a foreign language , as I could not find a high-enough resolution one in English ) . In both cases , the fuel tanks are in the lower half of the fuselage - the reason the KC-10 has a cargo mission as well is because it is a larger aircraft and has a much higher gross weight . The KC-135 's cargo space is much smaller , and as such is not used for transporting large items . <URL> for the KC-10 also gives volume of each tank ( called Fuel Cells ) : Forward Fuselage - 8,250 gallons in 3 sections , 6 ' deep Aft Fuselage - 9,870 gallons in 4 sections , 6 ' deep You are correct that it is a struggle getting them airborne when fully loaded - several of the KC-135 pilots I have talked to have taken until the very end of 10,000 foot plus runways to get airborne , and one of the KC-10 pilots I know said they would occasionally take off with less than a full load then take on fuel from a KC-135 to make it easier . Page 3-45 of <URL> technical manual has a chart for calculating minimum runway for a particular speed - for example , a sea level takeoff at 30 degrees ( Celsius ) at Max takeoff weight would require about a 13,500 foot runway .
During testing , the rear fuselage is protected by a beam made of oak or even steel to distribute the tail strike loads and to protect the aircraft skin . A340 during tail strike tests . This one is literally blazing along the runway ... For normal operations , the protection is removed . However , tail strikes must not cause flight-critical damage , so a few precautions are taken during design : No hydraulic or electrical lines must run along the bottom of the rear fuselage . If there are still mechanical control elements like pushrods , they and their collapsing supports must not be close to the bottom of the fuselage . The tail strike location must be outside of the pressurized part of the fuselage . The main protection against tail strikes , however , is procedural : The <URL> to allow lift-off before a critical pitch attitude is reached . Delta wing aircraft are much easier to over-rotate , so the Concorde used a retractable tailwheel for tail strike protection :
Some countries do n't get the most powerful engines and have to use what is available in the market . To avoid upsetting China too much , the US would not sell the <URL> or the <URL> to Taiwan , and a derivative of a <URL> had to be developed . A second reason is redundancy : When the US Navy had to decide between the <URL> and what <URL> , they preferred the design with two engines , because losing your only engine over water is a much more life-threatening experience than losing it over land . Similarly , the Eurofighter was designed more for peace than for war - having two engines will reduce training losses . Generally , a single , bigger engine will be more powerful and more efficient per unit of mass , because manufacturing tolerances will be relatively smaller in the bigger engine , if the same technology is used for both . Single engines need to have more system redundancy than one of a pair of engines , so some of that advantage can not be transferred into the finished design . Nevertheless , from a performance standpoint the single engine fighter will look better .
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
end question
start question
Can stainless steel replace titanium for Mach 3 + speeds ?
Both the <URL> and <URL> designs had engines that would overheat and be damaged an anything past Mach 2.83 , so both planes were limited by this . Typical speeds were closer to Mach 2.5 to extend the life of the planes . The highest aerodynamic heating occurs at the leading edges . It 's possible that the MiG designs used titanium in these areas but opted for steel in most other areas , which was cheaper and easier to work with . This would have allowed the aircraft to reach speeds closer to the SR-71 , even if the engines could n't keep up . The <URL> was designed to cruise at up to Mach 3.3 at 80000ft , a similar altitude to the MiGs . <URL> is related to the cube of the speed . Mach 3.3 generates 10 % more heat than Mach 3.2 , and the SR-71 reached at least Mach 3.5 . It seems the SR-71 flew faster and higher than the MiGs . Heat is only one consideration though . Another big issue is weight . Steel is generally much heavier than a comparable structure made from titanium . The SR-71 empty weight was about 40 % higher than the MiG-31 , but the MTOW was 70 % higher . This allows much more payload for mission equipment , but also fuel . The MiGs were designed to fly relatively short range interception or reconnaissance missions , having unrefueled ranges of 2000km or less . The MiG-31 could fly 3000km but only with drop tanks . The SR-71 was designed as a long range reconnaissance aircraft , and had a range of 5400km which enabled it to fly long missions over enemy territory . Another consideration is size . The SR-71 was a larger plane than either the MiG-25 or MiG-31 . It had a wingspan of 17m , compared to 14m of the MiGs , and a length of 33m , compared to 20m and 23m for the MiGs . This means higher forces on the aircraft structure .
Retrofitting is ( as the comments to your post have already stated ) rather difficult and unusual . In addition , the quality of service from such an aircraft you could expect to get would most probably not be great . Analogy : Try changing your minibus for 9 people into minivan for freight and industrial work . It is also worth mentioning that the difference in operation is substantial between bombers and commercial jets . You would be better off using something that is not that complicated , like a Cessna Caravan for instance . I think that energy , time and money would be better spent on building more dedicated aircraft . Changing the commercial ones is also not trivial and will require engineered changes . It is however fully possible to design a military derivative of a commercial jet . The <URL> is an example of this , being based off the Boeing 737 with the necessary modifications . The armament is also fairly extensive : 5 internal and 6 external stations for AGM-84H / K SLAM-ER , AGM-84 Harpoon , Mark 54 torpedo , missiles , mines , torpedoes , bombs , and a High Altitude Anti-Submarine Warfare Weapon system [
Actually , for all but very long haul flights , airline aircraft only require two pilots , a Captain and a First Officer . For those long haul flights that exceed the duty time in a pilot seat , a relief pilot is also carried . Older aircraft often also had a flight engineer . Technically speaking the f.e. was n't usually required to be a pilot , but he was a very necessary crew member . You could say that airlines became more efficient crew-wise when they moved from 3-man cockpit crews to 2-man cockpit crews . For example , the 747-100/200 series uses 3-man crews , but the 747-400 uses 2-man crews . The change was made possible by using automation and instrumentation that was n't available when the first 747 models came out . Indirectly the increase in engine reliability also helped . If you lost an engine in an 3-man crew 747 , the typical manner of handling the loss was to have the first officer fly the airplane while the captain and the f.e. worked the problem . To illustrate the increase in automation , the 747-100/200 series had , typically , seven or nine fuel tanks , and there was a fuel burn schedule that had to be followed to keep the structural stresses and balances between different levels of the tanks within limits . The f.e. took care of that , doing it manually by throwing switches on his panel . The 747-400 and follow on models do that automatically by computer . Basically the number in the cockpit crew is determined by safety . There 's the basic consideration that if you had only one pilot , and that pilot died or otherwise was disabled , that might well be catastrophic . Beyond that , though , there 's the matter of what all has to be done and for how long . Pilots make mistakes , and the longer they 've on duty , the more mistakes they make . And if an emergency occurs , the work load can get very high . You ca n't reasonably compare an aircraft to a car for at least two reasons . First , a car is moving in only two dimensions , an aircraft in three . Second , a car can stop moving , an aircraft ca n't ; it has to keep moving . Let 's say your car loses power . Usually that wo n't result in anything more than inconvenience . If your aircraft loses power , you 've got a much more serious problem . Most airline aircraft have at least two engines . Losing one is n't going cause a crash in most two engine aircraft , losing all power will .
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
Really this is a moot point ... <URL> ( a ) states : ( a ) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate -- ( 1 ) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued ; or ( 2 ) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire . And again ( e ) states : ( e ) No person may operate an aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) of this chapter for compensation or hire , except a person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) ( 1 ) for compensation or hire to -- ( 1 ) Tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309 ; or ( 2 ) Conduct flight training in an aircraft which that person provides prior to January 31 , 2010 . <URL> is in reference to operating light-sport aircraft and how it obtains an experimental certificate . There are very few auto-gyros that are factory built and certified , and none that I can find that are currently being built . Anything you build in your home ( home-built ) needs to pass certain FAA inspections before it is issued an airworthiness certificate and/or experimental certificate . All home-builts are experimental since they are not built under the manufacturers quality control system . Either way , the FAA certifies that you build it to a safe standard and a standard in which the manufacturer intended it to fly . Being used for a commercial purpose , even if that were possible ( which it is not ) would not change the certification process for that aircraft . It would not require you to abide by any different rules or build standards . That is implying that personal aircraft would be built to a lower safety standard than commercial ones , which is n't the case .
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
I suppose it depends on what you mean by " land " -- For our purposes I 'll define landing as putting the aircraft on the ground and decelerating to taxi speed , while meeting the other requirements of a " good landing " ( shiny side up ; rubber side down ; aircraft , pilot , and passengers in reusable condition ) . How fast can I go ? Generally you want to put the wheels on the ground at ( or at least very close to ) the aircraft 's stall speed and then decelerate to a safe taxi speed . You can certainly force the wheels onto the ground at higher speeds , but you 're still an aerial vehicle at that point and you have to bleed off the excess speed to transition to a ground ( taxiing ) vehicle before you can leave the runway . As a general rule of thumb your final approach speed should be about 1.3 times stall speed for your selected landing configuration so you can get down to taxi speed reasonably quickly . Putting that into some kind of context , a normal approach speed ( with full flaps ) in the Piper Cherokee I fly is around ~ 65 knots . A no-flaps approach is ~ 75 knots . Looking a little deeper , you can fly the approach as fast as you want ( within reason ) as long as you 're comfortable doing that and confident in your ability to bleed off the extra speed with precision . At my home field I 've been chased down final by jets often enough that I know I can maintain 85 + knots until about a half-mile final , at which point I can reliably dump the extra speed , put the wheels down in the touchdown zone , and decelerate to taxi speed in time to make a " normal " turn-off . I also know that if it seems like I will need to carry more than about 85 knots by the half-mile point I 'm better off telling ATC I 'll go around and land after the faster traffic because I may not be able to safely decelerate and turn off the runway with enough room for the traffic behind me to land . Keeping your speed up is really only helpful if you do n't botch the landing . What 's the procedure for doing this ? The procedure is basically " Keep your speed up until short final " -- It 's something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily . If you elect to land without flaps the procedure is the same as the " no-flap landings " you should have done in training , and in most small aircraft that should be a non-event . Again , this is something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily , and it 's a technique you should be familiar with in case your flap controls ever fail . What are the consequences ? Well , the good part is you 'll be helping out ATC and the traffic behind you : if you can keep your speed up ATC will be better able to maintain separation between you and the faster aircraft behind you , instead of having to send them around or vector / re-sequence them for spacing . It 's also fun to do this kind of thing occasionally , and helps keep your skills sharp . The bad part is that any time you 're not flying a " normal " approach you 're accepting some additional level of risk . In this case you 're also touching down faster , which means more energy to dissipate ( hopefully through braking , but if something goes wrong you 'll be dissipating that energy through impact , and as dvnrrs pointed out the energy you need to get rid of is proportional to the square of your velocity so the number goes up fast ) . Remember that ultimately flying a fast final or touching down in an alternate ( faster ) configuration is a courtesy to ATC and the traffic you 're mixing with . If you 're comfortable doing it everyone will appreciate your help , but if you are n't comfortable with it just fly a normal approach and let ATC know you are <URL> to fly faster -- the worst thing ATC will do is ask you to go around and re-sequence you with more space next time .
Titanium is unsuitable because it will react with oxygen and carbon at high temperature , well below its melting point , making it very hard and brittle . Welding titanium is very complicated because it needs to be shielded extremely well from any oxygen when hot . Ti $ _ 3 $ O will form above 500 ° C , and Ti $ _ 2 $ O above 600 ° C. Initially turbine blades were made of steel alloys , but they have been displaced by <URL> . Also , they operate in an environment which requires constant <URL> , so they can be 200 - 300 ° C cooler than the turbine entry temperature of the gas coming from the combustor ( s ) . Modern turbine blades are hollow and have a perforation at their leading edge . Pressurized , relatively cool air is forced through the blades and the perforation and flows around the blade 's surface , creating a cool sheet of air to shield the blade from the hot gas . Also , before entering the turbine the gas is accelerated , which already lowers its temperature . See the plot below of parameters inside an older engine taken from <URL> source . Shortly past the fuel injectors the maximum gas temperature of approx . 1800 ° C is reached , which drops to 1100 ° C at the entry to the first turbine stage . Note that this temperature has been raised to 1500 ° C in modern military engines ! At the same time , the highest temperature is connected with the lowest speed ( 30 m/s ) , and the flow accelerates to 200 m/s directly before entering the first turbine stage . Titanium in contact with oxygen would lose a lot of its strength at these temperatures , even though its melting point is at 1650 ° C.
IATA themselves <URL> : Airlines and CRSs [ computer reservations systems ] may request the assignment of a unique three-letter code to identify an airport The <URL> also says the same thing : when a three-letter code is used alone to indicate a location , it designates the name of an airport or location as adopted by IATA ( whose code only has three letters ) According to Wikipedia , IATA has several <URL> that can be from one to four characters , but airport codes specifically are always three based on all the sources I mentioned .
Many of these are Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics ( RTCA ) standards . You can get these documents from the <URL> . They are provided free of charge to RTCA members , non-members have to pay . Alternatively you can acquire the European equivalents from EUROCAE ( RTCA DO-178B is <URL> in the <URL> ) . If you want to be up-to-date ( for example if you 're building a new avionics system ) , you should buy the latest version of the standard , such as <URL> / <URL> , which is the latest edition of your example above ( published in 2012 ) .
You can download Google Earth airspace files for most countries , and move through them in 3D to explore what they would look like for various areas . For example , you could see where you would be " under " a Class B shelf , or where you might navigate to avoid B/C/D airspace and " surface airport E airspace " ( if you 're flying an ultralight , for example ) . These files can be downloaded from <URL> Here is a screenshot I just captured of the Seattle Class B , looking northwest from the southeast corner . <URL>
There are two separate aural warnings that you might be referring to : one is indeed called ' Triple Click ' and consists of three brief clicks , but is emitted when the landing capability becomes degraded or the autopilot otherwise changes mode . The warning generated upon autopilot disconnection , instead , is the so-called ' Cavalry Charge ' and consists of three longer beeping sounds ; it 's either played once or repeated continuously ( cases 1 and 2 below ) . From a table in the Airbus A320 FCOM , DSC-31-10 P 4/6 : TRIPLE CLICK Meaning : Landing capability downgrade or some cases of mode reversion . Duration : 0.5 s ( 3 pulses ) CAVALRY CHARGE Meaning : A/P disconnection by takeover push-button . A/P disconnection due to failure . Duration : 1.5 s Permanent Cancellation : Second push on takeover push-button . Press Master Warning light or takeover push-button . See <URL> ( at 2:52 ) for a cavalry charge immediately followed by a triple click ( thank you <URL> ) .
No because aircraft are categorized by their <URL> ( 1.3 times stall speed ) . <URL> VAT -- Speed at threshold used by ICAO ( 1.3 times stall speed in the landing configuration at maximum certificated landing mass ) By knowing the category , ATC is able to use appropriate speeds . The category is not actually listed anywhere , so the controller will have to know the approach category by heart for each aircraft type . E.g. if the controller sees " B738 " as the aircraft type in the flightplan , they have to know that the corresponding approach category is C. More : <URL> <URL> ( for the US )
Both the <URL> and <URL> designs had engines that would overheat and be damaged an anything past Mach 2.83 , so both planes were limited by this . Typical speeds were closer to Mach 2.5 to extend the life of the planes . The highest aerodynamic heating occurs at the leading edges . It 's possible that the MiG designs used titanium in these areas but opted for steel in most other areas , which was cheaper and easier to work with . This would have allowed the aircraft to reach speeds closer to the SR-71 , even if the engines could n't keep up . The <URL> was designed to cruise at up to Mach 3.3 at 80000ft , a similar altitude to the MiGs . <URL> is related to the cube of the speed . Mach 3.3 generates 10 % more heat than Mach 3.2 , and the SR-71 reached at least Mach 3.5 . It seems the SR-71 flew faster and higher than the MiGs . Heat is only one consideration though . Another big issue is weight . Steel is generally much heavier than a comparable structure made from titanium . The SR-71 empty weight was about 40 % higher than the MiG-31 , but the MTOW was 70 % higher . This allows much more payload for mission equipment , but also fuel . The MiGs were designed to fly relatively short range interception or reconnaissance missions , having unrefueled ranges of 2000km or less . The MiG-31 could fly 3000km but only with drop tanks . The SR-71 was designed as a long range reconnaissance aircraft , and had a range of 5400km which enabled it to fly long missions over enemy territory . Another consideration is size . The SR-71 was a larger plane than either the MiG-25 or MiG-31 . It had a wingspan of 17m , compared to 14m of the MiGs , and a length of 33m , compared to 20m and 23m for the MiGs . This means higher forces on the aircraft structure .
As Ron Beyer <URL> , it 's more of a flat ellipsoid ( egg ) , not a cone . <URL> <URL> <URL> shows that image : <URL> From the <URL> , the tolerances are : <URL> <URL> <URL> Minor axis being parallel to approach : <URL>
FAA medical certificate requirements <URL> : Medical certificates are designated as first-class , second-class , or third-class . First-class is designed for the airline transport pilot Second-class for the commercial pilot Third-class for the student , recreational and private pilot Coming to your question , <URL> ( my highlighting ) : ... the ICAO naming structure for the various classes of medicals does not fit with that of the U.S. Under the ICAO definition , a second class medical applies only to holders of private pilot licenses . In most States , outside of the U.S. and Canada , it is easier to simply carry a valid first class medical rather than trying to explain to a foreign inspector that a FAA second class medical equals an ICAO class 1 medical . For more information , please <URL> .
Yes , it can be done , but to <URL> is a lot of work . You will also need to use a thinner gauge than 1/32 " to get the weight down . Note that one of the very <URL> was made of 0.2 mm ( 1/128 " ) sheet steel and flew well . However , building it required a corrugated substructure and a welded steel tube frame for strength . Still , it was heavier than necessary so its builder switched to aluminium for later designs . Generally , the tension length of steel ( strength relative to density ) is roughly equal with that of aluminium or titanium ; however , you will need to use high-grade steel to be comparable with aircraft-grade aluminium , so some of the price advantage will be lost . But there is a distinct disadvantage with higher-density materials . While their strength scales linearly with wall thickness , their <URL> scales with the square of their thickness . You will end up with a very delicate structure which will require careful handling to avoid local dimples and a stiff substructure to avoid early failure in compression . Also , introducing loads locally ( say , for a landing gear or an engine mount ) will require local reinforcements which should ideally be multi-layered and taper out in several steps . If you want to scale an existing structure down , make sure you place the stiffeners closer than what a scale construction would require . But I am sure you will prefer to bond the sheet steel to a styrofoam core . Use a higher-density styrofoam with better compression strength and be generous with local reinforcements , and the model should turn out fine .
Yes and No . The definition of a stall is that the airfoil stops generating lift , which happens when the critical angle of attack is reached . In an airplane , this happens during normal flight by pitching up until the critical angle of the airfoil is reached . In a helicopter , aft cyclic ( " pitching up " in an airplane ) will only serve to make the helicopter climb and slow down until it reaches equilibrium in the new attitude . Helicopters , however , can suffer from what is called " retreating blade stall , " when the blade is at full pitch on the retreating side of the rotor : <URL> This does n't happen under normal circumstances , but there are four factors which contribute to retreating blade stall : fast -- close to Vne heavy -- at max gross weight hot -- above 35C high -- at high altitude Retreating blade stall is considered an emergency , and can be recovered from by reducing power .
Short answer : Increasing fuel prices would have driven down the most economical speed , but advances in aerodynamics have compensated for that and the maximum cruise Mach number is still at Mach 0.85 . But there is a much simpler reason why this Mach 0.85 number seems so immutable . Please note that we are talking about the maximum cruise Mach number ; all airliners will fly more economical at slightly lower Mach numbers between 0.78 and 0.82 . Now we need to define efficiency . For airliners this is haul capacity per time , and can be expressed by the product of payload , range and speed . When none of the three constituents can be changed without making the product more costly to achieve , you have reached the point of best efficiency . Engine Technology The biggest change in the last 50 years was in engine technology . Bypass ratios have increased to values close to 10 , the turbine inlet temperature is now <URL> , and electronic control has improved especially the off-design performance of engines . This has made it less attractive to increase flight speed , so the optimum cruise Mach would be lower if no other effects had influenced it . Another effect is the lower fuel consumption . Early designs had to use a high wing chord to pack enough fuel volume for transoceanic flights . The much lower consumption of modern engines has given them ranges which are <URL> directly . This made it possible to reduce wing area , thickness and mass , and to save some friction drag , helping fuel economy again . The lower thickness helps to make higher cruise Mach numbers possible . Aerodynamics Aerodynamics is the second factor . With the A310 supercritical airfoils were introduced , and they shifted the operating Mach number up because now a limited region of supersonic flow on the wing could be tolerated without a significant rise in drag . However , the benefit from that was used to reduce wing sweep , increase airfoil thickness and to attach bigger fuselages to those wings . In the end , the newer airplanes had the same cruise Mach numbers as their predecessors . Something made Mach 0.85 too attractive to abandon . A second effect of supercritical airfoils is their blunter nose , which helps to reach a higher maximum lift coefficient . This also contributed to reducing wing chord , because now the wing area could be made smaller for the same landing speed . The Real Reason Every new airliner needs to compete with the older models . On fuel economy this is no problem , but <URL> . A higher cruise Mach number allows shorter times for connections . Now you have to know that the <URL> reservation <URL> would list connections sorted by flight time , shortest first . When a travel agent wanted to book a flight , he or she would rarely look beyond the first screen and pick one of the first flights listed . If a new type made the flight slip down in the listings , it was a non-seller . This is even true in the times of online bookings : The airlines do n't make much profit from the bargain hunters in Economy , their target are the business people flying in Business or First Class . And those still order mostly through travel agencies , so the rules have not changed . This is why that Mach 0.85 speed seems to be so firmly set ; flying any faster would drive up fuel consumption disproportionally , and even the newest jets will mostly be flown around Mach 0.82 to Mach 0.84 . Making this speed possible is still a struggle for the design engineers , especially when you consider that larger aircraft would need thicker wings for structural efficiency , but need to be fitted with wings thinner than optimal to let marketing claim a cruise speed of Mach 0.85 .
end question
start question
How do airlines ( or the government ) retrieve information from the black box of an aircraft ?
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
The best answer : Use the charts in the respective Pilot 's Operating Handbook ( POH ) . There you should find correction factors for the parameters which influence aircraft range Fuel on board : The more , the better . But note that doubling fuel will not double range . Take-off mass : If you take no payload , the aircraft will produce less induced drag and reach a slightly higher range . See the chart below for an example . <URL> enroute . Follow the link ; the wind component parallel to your flight direction will change the range by the product of wind speed times flight time . Cruise <URL> : This depends on the type of engines , <URL> than <URL> . Temperature Generally , there should be a chart like this : It plots the maximum achievable range over the aircraft 's payload and assumes that the tanks are filled such that the flight starts with the maximum take-off mass . The chart should also have an explanation that clarifies which altitude and which thrust setting were used . Or you use approximations like <URL> , which require detailed knowledge of the aircrafts L/D and the engine 's fuel consumption . That will be the weakest point of any range calculation : Sufficient data how changes in the aforementioned parameters affect the result .
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
The overwhelming majority of major airlines do lease at least some of their aircraft . And most airlines who choose to buy do not end up paying that full price tag . In the case of Easyjet , around half their fleet is leased ( as of 2013 ) . Leasing allows airlines with weak balance sheets or with poor future prospects to increase capacity without locking capital . In fact , the largest aircraft owners are aircraft leasing companies . For example , GECAS ( General Electric Capital Aviation Services ) , the largest aircraft lessor , currently owns around 1,700 aircraft , being operated by 230 airlines around the world . There are other ( not state-owned and generally low cost ) airlines , such as Ryanair , who are fond of owing most of their aircraft . What Ryanair does is negotiate very good procurement deals with Boeing ( by buying large packs of planes , all being B-737s ) , use them for around 5 years , and then sell them before their price has gone down too low . This takes a burden on their debt levels , but seems to work for them so far on the long run . This aircraft resell value is an important aspect to consider when comparing leasing vs purchasing , as well as tax incentives derived from amortization . Legacy carriers ( many of them state owned ) , on the other hand , have a tendency to purchase most of their fleet , and keeping them around for the full lifespan of the machine ( around 30 years ) . The actual price a company pays for a given aircraft is not public ( understandably ) and most figures you would be able to find are related to " list prices " . However , in 2005 Ryanair was forced to disclose facts about one of the massive ( by the time ) purchases of Boeing aircraft . Apparently , they paid <URL> . More current data on the actual price airlines pay for Boeing planes can be found <URL> , where Javier Irastorza analyses the discounts Boeing is applying to their aircraft based on a balance sheet assessment .
Dogfight is about energy management . You care less about climbing than about being able to turn your nose and weapons into the right direction as quickly as possible without falling out of the sky . Maximum climb would be required in those scenarios : Fly as efficiently as possible . Flying higher means flying faster and in colder air , so the engines are <URL> . Note that todays airliners climb as fast or faster than fighter aircraft in WW II . Evade ground threats . After delivering its ordnance , an attack aircraft would desire to get away from hostile fire as quickly as possible . Sometimes this is achieved by flying with the <URL> , though . Break off combat : If you know you can climb faster than your opponent , you can choose whether you fight or get away , a luxury the other guy does not have . Intercept : If you were ordered to intercept an unknown aircraft flying high above , maximum climb speed is helpful . If you need to be fast as well , your optimum climb profile is that of <URL> , though . I interpret minimum rate of climb as maximum descent rate . Typical scenarios are : Pressure loss in an airliner , when higher density air should be reached in order to <URL> . Dropping parachutists : If the aircraft lands ahead of the skydivers , it can fly more often and earn more revenue . Extreme case : Dive bombing . Actually , most dive bombers employed air brakes to limit the speed in a dive .
For the landing is quite easy . Airliners usually approach an airport descending along $ 3 ^ \ circ $ slopes . This means that they will be 300m AGL approximately 5.7 km before the runway threshold , and they will be at 550m AGL about 10.5 km before the same point . For the take-off the situation is a bit more complicated , as each aircraft will have a different performance . Taking a value of about 1000ft/min for the vertical velocity and 200Kts for the forward velocity ( in aviation we use the imperial system , for a bit of background see <URL> ) we get similar distances to the above ( it is a $ 2.8 ^ \ circ $ slope ) Note that these paths are more or less a straight continuation of the runway , particularly on the landing side ( less so on the take off side ) . Each airport has approach and departure procedures , you could try to have a look at those . They are usually published by Jeppesen .
On small aircraft many operators use portable ADS-B IN receivers which typically do not have the ability to sense suppression signals from their own transponder/UAT transmissions and so they will pick up their own signal . Most installed systems have that suppression functionality so this wo n't happen . The suppression is simply a wire between the two units that if the transmitter is transmitting , it goes high , which tells the receiver to ignore whatever it is receiving at the moment . So if you want to " receive " yourself , simply snip the suppression wire if you have one ...
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
The actual fuel type limitations will be listed in at least two places : the aircraft type certification data sheet ( TCDS ) , and the limitations section of the aircraft Flight Manual , Operating Handbook , or equivalent . The fuel placards placed at the fuel filler ports might not list all approved fuels , or may state " Type X fuel only " when additional fuels may in fact be approved . These placards should be understood as a precaution against inadvertently fueling with an unintended or wrong type of fuel . In some cases ignoring these placards can have <URL> . Some aircraft do indeed have approved emergency fuels . This information would also be found in the limitations listed above . For example , the <URL> for the Beechcraft King Air B200 with PT6A series engines is lists the following for normal approved fuels : Fuel JP-4 , JP-5 ( MIL-T-5624 ) ; JP-8 ( MIL-T-83133 ) ; JET A , JET A-1 , and JET B conforming to P&amp;WC S.B. 1244 or ASTM SPEC . D1655 ; in addition for B200 and B200C Chinese No. 3 Jet Fuel . See NOTE 6 for emergency fuels Note 6 in the TCDS reads as follows : NOTE 6 . Emergency use of MIL-G-5572 : Grades 80/87 , 91/98 , 100/130 , and 115/145 are permitted for a total time period not to exceed 150 hours time between engine overhauls . It is not necessary to purge the unused fuel from the system when switching fuel types . Likewise , the <URL> for the King Air B200 lists the same limitations . The Flight Manual for the King Air B200 also lists these limitations , as applicable , as well as some additional altitude constraints when using emergency fuels due to electric boost pump requirements . In contrast to the actual fuel limitations , the placard placed at the fuel port for the King Air B200 lists very little of the actual limitations : <URL> Source : Beechcraft King Air 200 <URL>
I do n't know about a " long history " , but the Australian aviation authorities ( Jabiru is an Australian company ) did introduce <URL> because of what they considered to be a high rate of engine failures . Note that Jabiru makes their own engines , unlike most other aircraft manufacturers , and as well as using them in their own aircraft they sell them for use in <URL> . <URL> mentioned 45 incidents in one year : These precautionary limitations follow a high number of Jabiru engine failures and power loss incidents , some of which resulted in aircraft forced landings . More than 45 Jabiru engine failures or in-flight engine incidents have been reported in 2014 , with CASA recently becoming aware of incidents in previous years . Problems with Jabiru engines include failures of through bolts , flywheel bolts and valve train assemblies , as well as cylinder cracking . The failures affect a range of Jabiru engine models and have occurred in aircraft used in different flying activities , although many have been reported in aircraft used for flying training . By itself , the number 45 does n't mean much without considering more information about the number of aircraft , the number of hours flown , maintenance performed etc. and Wikipedia says that Jabiru did n't agree with CASA 's decision ( which is n't surprising ) . But presumably CASA did think about those things and still decided that there should be restrictions in place .
Here it is : <URL> . At about 8 p.m. British Airways Flight 112 , traveling from John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City to Heathrow Airport in London , diverted to Bangor after smoke was discovered in the cockpit . Story was published on June 10th , 2004 . Article says Wednesday night , so it should have happened on June 9th . Both the <URL> and the NTSB do n't have any reports . It must have been a minor issue . Just a <URL> , fuel leak on departing Heathrow .
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
Not the FAA , but the manufacturer . If the parts are composite , only a small range of colors may be approved , depending on the <URL> of the resin matrix . For gliders , only white is allowed for most of the surface area , and similarly composite parts of airliners must be painted <URL> so they do n't heat up too much in sunlight . Curiously , the lower surface has the most restrictions , because here the reflected light from a concrete surface and the restricted ventilation create the highest surface temperatures . Next , the UV absorption capability , moisture protection characteristics and the chemical stability of the paint when in contact with aviation fuel , hydraulic fluids , de-icing fluids and other solvents is important . Composite gliders must use a special topcoat which is more brittle than the composite structure , so cracks will show up . Airliners may use more flexible paints , but must then undergo regular inspections of their composite parts . Metal surfaces are less demanding and can be painted in any color . Only the area in front of the windshield should be dark enough to reduce glare and irritating reflections .
Bird strike happens all the time - almost on a daily basis . See <URL> : there are 9 instances of bird strike on the past 7 days at the time this answer is written . Usually it is ingested into the engine ( which usually <URL> ) , other times it impacts the cone or leading edge of the wings or knocks off a pitot tube . While a few incident make it to mainstream news from time to time , bird strike is a common occurrence in the aviation industry . It is an unusual situation , but not a dangerous situation if the pilots handle it properly . How severe if it collided with the windshield ? The windshield is <URL> during certification . At worst the outer layers will crack , and the pilot will execute the landing using the " cracked windshield " procedure ( Yes there is a procedure written for this scenario ) . A note about the UFO : technically it is an UFO , an Unidentified Flying Object . It could be a bird , a drone , weather balloon etc. . Examination of the impact area might reveal what the object was .
Well , the jet bridge does not actually join with the airplane . If you look at the place where the jetbridge and the airplane meet , there is a rubber bumper and some accordion cover ( that just comes down on top of the doorway ) which are the only things which touch the airplane . The two things never actually make a seal where they meet .
Yes . The first published results of measurements made by <URL> of the <URL> on a flat disk can be found in the collection <URL> ( PDF ! ) . He reported on a hysteresis in the angle of attack range between 39 ° and 42 ° , where the wing is either stalled or not , depending from which side this angle of attack range is approached . <URL> Lift and pitching moment coefficients of a flat disk , page 97 of Ergebnisse IV When <URL> tested disk-shaped wings with an <URL> section in the early 1930s in the NACA 7 x 10 ft wind tunnel , he called them circular airfoils . The results of this testing can be found in <URL> ( PDF ! ) from August 1935 . <URL> Figures 10 and 11 from the last page of NACA TN 539 <URL> collected the little data available on circular wings in his book <URL> ( page 17-8 ) and concluded : Disregarding any dreams of " flying saucers " , the athletic implement called discus seems to be the only practical application of a circular planform . However , Zimmerman went on to inspire the <URL> , the " flying pancake " of 1942 , from which the <URL> was developed . <URL> Vought V-173 in flight ( picture <URL> )
The empty weight of airplanes can only be given to single-pound precision for one specific airplane . Minute differences in metal sheet thickness , equipment and paint will make sure that there is a difference of many pounds between airplanes of the same type and furnishing . Add to this the difference in seating , galleys and instrumentation between airplanes of the same type which are operated by different airlines , and a precise number as in your question becomes almost meaningless . A better way would be to give a range in which most airplanes will fall , or to round the number like the Concorde weight of your question . Weighing is quite straightforward : All tires of the landing gear are placed on scales and the weights are summed up . If the attitude of the airplane does not change , the weight on the tires can even be measured consecutively , so only one scale is needed . Small floatplanes can be suspended from a crane with a scale in the line holding the aircraft . In <URL> 's biography he remembers an aircraft deal with the Soviet Union in the late 1920s . He had to deliver five floatplanes of a specified weight , and the Russian approval inspectors insisted on all planes having the exact same weight . Of course the planes were not identically heavy , but his advantage was that the scale in his factory was indicating the weight by printing it on cards . So the evening before the inspectors came , he let one aircraft be weighed five times , put the cards back into the machine and had the printing mechanism disabled . The next day he closed the business successfully with his very happy Russian guests .
The statistics for the number of pilots in the US is fairly easy to come by , The <URL> published a report on the <URL> . This shows a general static trend over the 10-or-so years preceding the report in 2011 The graph shows the total number of pilots since 1929 . <URL> For Europe , this statistic is a little harder to come by . In general , Aviation in Europe is controlled by the <URL> to which pretty much all European countries are members , with a few having a working arrangement to sync up their procedures/licensing . The EU , and its associated agencies are typically bureaucracies at their best ( worst ! ) and so there is unlikely to be a single register of the number of pilots . For example , some elements of aviation ( although NOT Licensing ) is still managed by the UK Civil Aviation Authority . With all the various european and intra country agencies involved in European Aviation it will be tougher to get figures for the number of pilots . Internationally your problem is moreso . With tens of different agencies involved in the Flight Crew Licensing , you may find it harder still to get some accurate figures .
do they fly in a pilot ( like mid-air refuel ) ? No , that is n't really feasible ! See answers to <URL> do they leave it to the co-pilot to take care of such situations ? Yes . In both normal and emergency situations , the co-pilot is able to fly the aircraft , navigate to a nearby airport and land the aircraft without the assistance of the senior pilot . From <URL> Here are some lines of defense : The remaining pilot must assume or maintain control Establish a safe flight profile and engage the autopilot ; use all possible automation Obtain cabin crew assistance Inform ATC If on an extended-range twin-engine operations ( ETOPS ) flight , the remaining pilot or PIC must assess whether to continue the flight , return to the departure airport or divert . The decision is based on : Weather conditions at the destination or alternate Reduction of flight time if diverting Workload involved in single-pilot operation Familiarity with the alternate Condition of the incapacitated pilot Availability of medical assistance Overall safety of the flight Arrange medical assistance upon arrival Brief a cabin crew member to assist if required Complete the approach and landing using the autopilot as much as possible A partially incapacitated pilot should not be allowed to participate in the subsequent operation of the aircraft , as judgment may be impaired After landing , seek immediate medical assistance See also <URL> The remaining pilot must first assume command and maintain control of the aircraft . Furthermore the position of essential controls and switches should be checked , and in nearly all cases , use of the autopilot should be made and an emergency be declared . Use of the autopilot and priority of air traffic service are two obvious and effective ways of maintaining a tolerable level of workload . The second step is to take care of the incapacitated flight crew member . The grounds for this are not entirely humanitarian ; if left unattended an incapacitated pilot can become a major problem and in any case is a major distraction to the remaining crew . Thus the incapacitated pilot must be moved out of the range of flight controls . In all cases , the advisability of removing a pilot ( perhaps unconscious ) from the seat must be dictated by consideration of the phase of the flight , the crew available , and the contours of the flight deck . Note : Consideration of the restraint and care of an incapacitated pilot dictates that cabin attendants are at least familiar with the operation of harness and seat controls Finally , and after the incapacitated flight crew member has been taken care of , the remaining flight crew should re-organise the cockpit work and prepare for landing . Details will depend on many variables including such considerations as the type of aircraft being flown , phase of flight , en route and terminal weather , and many others . How does commercial airlines prepare themselves for these kind of situations . I imagine that it involves the usual measures make pilots take regular medical tests . make pilots responsible for reporting own or crew illness , fatigue etc. prevent pilots eating the same meals in-flight . write procedures for pilot incapacitation in-flight . train flight crew to perform those procedures review and revise the above based on experience of relevant events . From what I 've read , non-pilot flight-crew are often given very basic training so that they understand the basics of flight . For example <URL> requires flight attendants initial training to include a pilot-incapacitation drill , an understanding of aircraft parts including rudder , ailerons etc , principles of flight , etc etc. . Do they specifically check if there are any pilots in the passenger manifest I believe the airline staff would often be aware of any airline pilots onboard ( e.g. <URL> ) but not of GA or military pilots flying as normal passengers .
end question
start question
What do the number at end of model numbers mean ?
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Do they kill people on the ground ? Almost certainly a few do . People struck by falling bullets are more likely to die than people shot directly . The chances of a particular bullet falling onto a person are very small but over the decades , many many bullets have been fired by aircraft . Handgun bullets Between the years 1985 and 1992 , doctors at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles , California , treated some 118 people for random falling-bullet injuries . Thirty-eight of them died . Bullets fired into the air during celebrations return at a speed fast enough to penetrate the skin and cause internal damage to other organs in the path of the migrating bullet . The bullet 's velocity required for skin penetration is between 148 and 197 feet per second . A velocity of less than 200 feet per second , which is easily obtained by a celebratory gunfire , is capable of fracturing bone and even causing intracranial penetration [ 4 ] . Spent bullets have the capability of reaching up to 600 feet per second during their downfall , and thus they have the ability to inflict damage to multiple body cavities [ 4 ] . The larger caliber bullets ( ie , .45 - caliber ) reach a higher terminal velocity compared with the smaller caliber bullets ( ie , .30 - caliber ) , because of the proportion of their weight to their diameter [ 4 ] . From <URL> For those hit by falling bullets , the chance of the wound being fatal was far higher than a typical shooting . The hospital put deaths from regular shootings between 2 % and 6 % , while for those struck by falling bullets the death rate was close to one third . From <URL> Aircraft rounds These falling bullets were from celebratory gunfire , not fired from aircraft . Aircraft cannon fire projectiles which are often much heavier than handgun rounds . If one falls on you , the likelihood of injury or death must be higher . .22 Winchester magnum rimfire and .50 Browning MG rounds at same scale . <URL>
I do n't know the exact answer , but it 's on the order of 0.100 " ( i.e. it 's more than 0.010 " and less than 1.00 " ) . The more interesting part is that it 's not just a simple linear stretching . The blades have a twist to them , and at speed they untwist , which is a strong contributor to the total change in length from 0 rpm to redline .
Flight hours are limited to 30 hours in 7 days , 100 hours in a month and 1000 in a year . Scheduling rules also say I need at least 1 day off a week , so 6 day trips are the max for me ( 121 US domestic scheduled ) . Let 's look at a typical trip , which at my company tended to be a 4 day trip . You want good productive trips , but you ca n't always get them . On a 4 day trip let 's say I have 6 hours of flight scheduled each day , or 24 hours scheduled that week . I am getting paid the better of 24 hours or the actual flight time . Now let 's look at my duty day . For a 6 hour day with 4 legs it was not unheard of to have a 12 hour duty day . So now for a 4 day trip , I 'm " at work " 48 hours and being paid for half of that . Now consider that I 'm not going home every night and my trip starts at 6 am on Friday and ends at midnight Monday night -- that totals to 90 hours away from home . How does this compare to a 40 hour work week in an office ? In that case you are on duty 40 hours , getting paid 40 hours ( or salary ) and if you have a 1 hour commute one way , you are spending 50 hours away from home . Back to the flight schedule . A given month will have trips less productive than 24 hours and although you can probably build a 96 hour month if you tried , the average line of flying is typically going to be 75 hours of flying . You can ballpark that will equate to 150 duty hours and 300 hours away from home for the month . Extrapolate that to a year , and you have 900 flight hours , 1800 duty hours and 3600 hours away from home . I would say this represents the average US domestic 121 pilot . Some do more , some do less , but this is pretty typical . What do we do with all of that duty time that is n't flying ? Let 's see : Eating Updating charts Checking the weather Checking the paperwork Coordinating with gate agents , ramp agents , fuel agents to make sure we leave on time Programming the FMS and getting our IFR clearance Preflighting the airplane Postflighting the airplane Doing the weight and balance Sleeping Note , that all of these activities require we are at the airport , in the secure area and we are not being paid . The pay clock starts ( roughly ) when the airplane is buttoned up and the parking brake is released and ends when the parking brake is set and main cabin door opened .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
Depends on the reasons the FAA had to justify the need for a 709 ride . If it was some kind of bureaucratic maneuver without justification for doing so and you pass the ride with flying colors , probably nothing . If there was a serious discrepancy in your airmanship which required a 709 ride to verify improvement on your part , it 's going to depend on whether it was a one time event or a trend in airmanship deficiency resulting in the check ride . In addition have there been further reports of deficiency in your airmanship after the 709 ride ? That will also have an effect on an employer 's judgment of you as a potential employee . Whatever the reasons for the 709 ride , an employer is going to see it , so be prepared to explain anything associated with it . Look at this from the employer 's perspective : I 'm going to put you in charge of a big , heavy multimillion dollar machine that you are going to pilot several miles off the ground at speeds close to that of sound . If anything goes wrong , you 're going to get killed , someone else on board is going to get killed , people on the ground are going to get killed and I 'm going to get sued , go bankrupt , end up in jail , or all three if your negligence can be traced back to me . Is there anything in your background which make me suspicious this is likely to happen if you are in my employ as a pilot ? The fact that you do make mistakes , possibly even serious ones , is not necessarily the issue here ; everybody makes mistakes . The last time you flew on an airliner the flight crew probably screwed something up . People with thousands of PIC hours learn something new on their next flight and it 's a mark of a good pilot that you can identify your own faults and fix them . The Blue Angels have a private saying amongst themselves that " We 've never flown a perfect airshow and we probably never will . But we strive for the perfect airshow each and every flight " . Striving for perfection as a personal motivator is the mark of a good airman and looks good on a resume , no matter how balls up some flight in your logbook was . The real issue here is do you have a recent or chronic history of uncorrected gross negligence or inability to handle the kinds of aircraft a potential employer flies which raises red flags as to your airmanship or trustworthiness . If you have a spotty record or recent 709 ride in your recent past , take a couple of years staying on with your current employer and do an outstanding job . Work on your airmanship and develop a stellar reputation with them as a pilot . That will go a long way to erasing the past , or at least mute its bite . Speaking of trustworthiness , DO NOT LIE TO A PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER ABOUT A 709 RIDE OR ANY OTHER FAILED CHECKRIDE . Aviation is built upon an honor system and any kind of detected lying or deceitfulness on your part is an automatic fail with no second chances , no matter how squeaky clean your career is up to that point . If they ask about it , tell it like it was , no more , no less , and let the chips fall where they may . It will yield the best possible outcomes , even if you do n't get the job .
The answer depends on who you ask . The structural engineer would prefer a single wheel , and as few legs as possible , while the aerodynamicist would vote for 8 or 12 wheels , because then the bogie has less frontal area and can be accommodated even in thin wings . Generally , less than two wheels would compromise redundancy , and more are needed to reduce local ground pressure . Remember that the A-300B was initially not allowed on some US airports because of a slightly higher ground pressure . See <URL> for more . Modern designs use two wheels per strut for redundancy when the aircraft is light enough and replace them with a bogie with as many wheels as necessary to carry higher aircraft masses . The A-340-200 has gained a central strut with two wheels ( A-340-200 / 300 ) rsp . a 4-wheel bogie ( A-340-500 / 600 ) , while the equally large , but lighter A-330 uses just the two 4-wheel main gears without the central gear . Airbus could have used two six-wheel bogies , but preferred to keep commonality with the A-330 gear . More than 6 wheels per bogie is very unusual , but there are exceptions : Since the Tu-144 had no thrust reversers , all braking had to be done by the wheel brakes . Additionally , the bogies needed to fit between the intake ducts inside the nacelles , so the final design used 8 wheels with the large housings of the disc brakes sticking out towards the center of the bogie . Tupolev Tu-144 landing gear ( picture <URL> ) . This particular aircraft is parked in the back yard of the Aviation Institute in Kazan . If you want to know how this 8-wheeled monster would fit inside a supersonic airliner , read the answers to <URL> . Convair experimented with different tire sizes for the <URL> and even a tracked version . The initial single wheel design resulted in the biggest aircraft tire ever produced , but in the end the conventional ( but novel at this time ) 4-wheel bogie was preferred because the single wheel had too much ground pressure for most US airbases . Earlier airplanes had used 2-wheel bogies ( Tupolev TB-3 , Junkers G-38 ) or a pair of wheels left and right of the strut ( Douglas DC-4 ) . XB-36 ( first prototype of the B-36 ) taking off ( picture <URL> ) When Air India ordered their first A320s , they were afraid the main wheel pressure would be too much for some Indian airfields . Airbus produced a version with a four-wheel bogie instead of the usual two-wheel main gear of the regular A320 . When they later ordered the A321 , India seemed to have improved their airfields , because the newer planes use the regular two-wheel gear which is mechanically simpler and needs less maintenance . <URL> Air India A320 ( picture <URL> )
Versalog already told the core of the thing . Most prop aircraft which are approved for flights into known icing conditions have such boots to remove the ice from the wings leading edge . Those boots are either inflated manually whenever you need them ( by the press of a button of course ) , at regular intervals or automatically whenever ice is detected . Check this picture , the black thing is the boot on a Dash 8 's wing : <URL> <URL>
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
There is hardly anything that ca n't be found with the help of a few friends and the Library of Congress . <URL> Pp.52-57 . Plant No. 1 ( Kuibyshev ) : Non-flyable [ what the heck is that ?? ] MiG-15 : 2 in 1949 , 4 in 1950 . 10 knock-down UTI MiG-15 kits were produced in 1951 . Plant No. 153 - Novosibirsk Plant No. 381 ( Leningrad ) : 1949 - 75 MiG-15 Plant No. 21 ( Gor ' ky ) : Plant No. 31 - Tbilisi Plant No. 126 - Komsomo ' ls ' k-NA-Amure Plant No. 292 - Saratov Plant No. 135 - Kharkiv Plant No. 99 ( Ulan-Ude ) Totals for the USSR ( may contain errors , have n't double-checked ) :
What does svc tar/ssr u/s mean ? Terminal area surveillance radar and secondary surveillance radar ( raw radar return and the secondary return from your transponder ) is unserviceable . If you were VFR you could practice the approaches without ATC radar vectoring , or ATC could give you a non-radar routing via an airway , then transition route , then the instrument approach procedure . In other words , the area for the time being ( NOTAM period ) has no radar . Non-radar procedures would be utilized . If the local ATC area was normally a radar environment and the radar equipment was taken down for preventive maintenance ( for example ) , providing separation for practice approaches may be more than they are willing to do . In the US ATC system , controllers are initially trained , tested , and qualified using a non-radar environment at the FAA Academy . Non-radar approach control is infrequently necessary in actual operation ( unless it is in an area where radar coverage is not available full time , which is becoming rare in the US ) . Call the local ATC Approach Control in the area you are referring to and see what services they can provide .
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
Concorde went supersonic during its climb phase to the cruising altitude . The altitude at which the Concorde can go supersonic was limited by the regulations . For example , the aircraft was only allowed to go at 400 knots during the climb phase between 6,000 and 32,000 ft ; also , the aircraft was allowed to go supersonic only after it has crossed the coastline . As the air gets thinner during climb , the Mach number increases for same IAS , reaching around 0.93 at 25,000 ft and 0.95 at 28,000 ft. After this , the afterburners are engaged and autopilot is set to the cruising altitude ( ~ 60,000 ft ) . During this climb phase to the cruising altitude , the aircraft goes supersonic , settling at around Mach 2 at over 50,000 ft. The flight envelope limitations of Concorde ( at one configuration ) is shown in this image : <URL> Source : pprune.org The altitude affected the thrust requirements , as more thrust is required for the same speed at lower altitudes due to density . This is one of the reasons for Concorde flying at altitude far above that of subsonic airliners .
There 's no " standard holding pattern " at any airport , towered or not . If the runway is occupied or temporarily closed for some reason , you might was well leave the traffic pattern and go putt around for a while someplace where there are fewer aircraft . At a towered airport , the controller will likely tell you what to do - but again , you can make both his life and yours easier by just leaving the pattern and going somewhere else until the situation is resolved .
Then you get a fully laminar boundary layer without transition . This can happen at very low Reynolds numbers , especially if no steep positive pressure gradients are encountered . A steep pressure rise can lead to <URL> , and if the boundary layer does not change to a turbulent one , this separation can be final , with no re-attachment of the boundary layer . Then the attached flow ends before the body ends , but still the boundary layer is fully laminar . It is not compulsory for transition to happen . If the flow is stable ( either due to a negative , stabilising pressure gradient or due to very low Reynolds numbers ) , the boundary layer will stay laminar for its full length .
The code for Markham Airport , CNU8 , is a Transport Canada identifier . The codes for the other airports are <URL> . ICAO airport codes always consist of 4 letters . Markham Airport does not have an ICAO airport code .
The simple EGT gauges do not have numerical scales because you never lean to a temperature . You find the peak temperature , set the movable red needle to that temperature , and then lean to x degrees lean ( or enrichen to x degrees ) of peak temperature . Set the peak temperature at full throttle , full rich at a sea level airport . This system eliminates the concerns of calibration : Is the gauge calibrated , did the mechanic install the probe in exactly the right spot , etc. etc. .
That specific phrasing means that you ca n't touch a cloud . See the VFR minimums in <URL> , where it says : no person may operate an aircraft under VFR when the flight visibility is less , or at a distance from clouds that is less , than that prescribed for the corresponding altitude and class of airspace in the following table [ ... ] The table lists the " distance from clouds " in class B as " clear of clouds " . You can also find it in the <URL> on class B airspace , and in other sections about SVFR , visual approaches etc. where a requirement for those procedures is to remain clear of clouds . The actual cloud cover in the class B airspace is reported by METARs and ATIS .
end question
start question
How does a pitot plate work ?
The B-2 's pitot plate has actually been <URL> in conditions that may or may not have had the same effect on aircraft with pitot tubes . Pitot plates work much like pitot tubes ; they measure the pressure of incoming air . The main difference is just how they measure it : pitot tubes measure the ram force of air while pitot plates measuring how much air is constricted by an obstruction . Pitot plates direct air through a " plate " with a hole that impedes the flow almost like how a Venturi tube accelerates fluids . Pictured : Pitot/Orifice plate <URL> Pitot tubes are easier to maintain , inspect , and install . Some of their main problems that you might not encounter with a pitot plate , such as icing , are countered with tested and approved safety systems ( like heating ) . In addition , pitot tubes are not the only instrument to measure airspeed ; most commercial and GA aircraft use pitot-static systems in which other pressure sensors are used to get a better and more reliable reading . Pitot plates are advantageous in that they reduce air pressure about 5:1 rather than the pitot tube 's 10:1 ( meaning yes , less drag in some sense ) but on such a tiny scale it makes barely any difference . On the flip side , pitot plates have very inaccurate readings at lower speeds ( though so low that it probably would not matter for any jet aircraft ) . Also , it is to my knowledge that pitot plates are used mainly for fluid research , sometimes not even related to aviation . Since pitot tubes are relatively small compared to the size of an aircraft and are streamlined anyway , there would be little to no noticeable improvement in aerodynamics . You would think that jetliners have completely clean surfaces , but guess again : Removing a pitot tube wo n't make a difference . Note : the gray circles outlined in dotted red boxes are pitot-static ports , which , combined with an aircraft 's pitot tubes , make up the pitot-static system . They can measure air pressure for both airspeed and altitude among other things . Final thing I wanted to clear up : flat surfaces are generally less aerodynamic than curved surfaces . Someone got too much of that idea when designing this plane ... / s
TCAS works by sending interrogations to other aircraft 's transponders . The transponder will reply to the interrogation in a similar way it responds to radar . From the time difference between the interrogation and the reply , the distance to the other aircraft is calculated . The reply itself contains the altitude of the other aircraft . The explanation below gives an insight in the basic working of the TCAS algorithm . In reality it is more complex to deal with all kinds of exceptional situations . The distance and the altitude difference with the other aircraft is tracked to identify a trend . From successive distance measurements the closure rate is determined . With the closure rate and the current distance ( slant range ) an approximation is made of the time to the closest point of approach ( CPA ) . This is done by simply dividing the range by the closure rate , the result is called ' range tau ' . The same is done in the vertical plane . Dividing the difference in altitude by the vertical speed difference leads to the vertical tau . If both tau 's are less than certain threshold , a Traffic Alert ( TA ) is raised . When the tau 's are less that another ( lower ) threshold , a Resolution Advisory is given . The TA is a ' heads up ' indication , the RA is an instruction that must be followed by the pilot to reduce the collision risk . The threshold times depend on the altitude , ranging from 20 seconds ( < 1000 ft AGL ) to 48 seconds ( > FL200 ) for TA 's and from 15 seconds ( < 2350 ft ) to 35 seconds ( > FL200 ) for RA 's . Below 1000 ft AGL , RA 's are inhibited . Originally TCAS did only give Traffic Advisories in the form of a " Traffic , traffic " annunciation . There was no avoiding action indicated . With the introduction of TCAS II in the second half of the '80s the Resolution Advisory made its entrance . RA selection In selecting a resolution advisory , there are two basically two steps . The first step is to select a sense , either upward or downward . This is based on a calculation of how much altitude difference can be achieved at the CPA by either starting a climb or descent , assuming the target will maintain its vertical rate . In the calculation the reaction time of the crew and acceleration and climb / descent rate of the aircraft is assumed ( 5 seconds , 0.25 g , 1500 fpm ) . The second step is to select a magnitude . The algorithm is designed to be the least disruptive to the flight path , whilst still achieving a minimum vertical separation . RA coordination When a RA is selected , it is transmitted to the other aircraft . When the other aircraft receives that message , it will only use the opposite sense for its own RA . In the rare case that both aircraft transmit their RA intent at the same time , the aircraft with the higher Mode S address will give in and reverse its RA sense if it is conflicting with the other . Algorithm versions Over the years various improvements are made to TCAS II . The initial TCAS II systems had version 6.0 of the algorithm , later replaced by 6.04 a in the mid 90 's . Further system evaluation lead to the development of version 7.0 , implemented from 1999 . Following a near mid-air collision in Japan in 2001 and a mid-air collision over Uberlingen , Germany further changes were made leading to version 7.1 . Changes that were made include : the wording of the RA 's logic to limit the vertical path deviations logic to prevent nuisance alerts in RVSM airspace and on closely spaced parallel runway operations logic to detect non-compliance to an RA improved RA sense reversal logic TCAS &amp; ATC TCAS RA 's take precedence of ATC instructions . The fact that one of the two aircraft followed ATC instructions , and the other TCAS RA 's contributed to the Uberlingen accident . In case a pilot is getting a TCAS RA he should notify ATC . ========== The FAA has produced an <URL> which provided some interesting reading on the topic .
The autopilot controls hydraulic actuator that is connected to the control link at some point . Since power transfer in the link is bidirectional , the control column moves when autopilot operates it . The same goes for thrust levers operated by autothrust . If the pilot fights it , the autopilot will increase the force applied up to some limit at which it will disconnect . It ca n't really recognize whether the force is from the pilot or due to aerodynamic forces , but that 's all right , because it should disconnect both if the pilot tries to yank the controls and when keeping the plane in the selected attitude requires too large control input ( e.g. hard up elevator because the plane is too slow ) . Boeing aircraft maintains this behaviour even on models with fly-by-wire ( B777 and B787 ) . Airbus did remove the feedback , because the command given does not directly correspond to control surface position anyway . So far I believe the only other civilian aircraft without feedback is Sukhoi Su-100 .
First , the precise terms is not fins , but control surfaces . Fins would be fixed but the four rear surfaces can rotate around a spanwise axis . By rotating , they can be positioned at an angle to the airflow , thus deflecting it and creating an opposing force . Compare that to a <URL> . They work in the same way by creating a force normal to their plane . While this force has a vertical and horizontal component , the horizontal components of the single surfaces cancel each other when all surfaces are rotated by the same angle . Their vertical components will add up , creating a pitching moment . When the left and right surfaces are rotated by the opposite angle , their vertical force component will cancel while the horizontal component will add up , thus creating a yawing moment which swings the tail around . If it were to pitch downwards , which fins would need to move and in which direction ? All four surfaces will move trailing edge down , so the resulting force will point up and pitch the whole craft nose down .
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
Though it 's often omitted from diagrams , most pitot tubes have one or more drain holes connected to the pressure chamber , and are essentially " self-draining " ( water does n't make it into the lines ) : <URL> <URL> In addition to drains on the pitot tube itself some aircraft have separate " drip chambers " and drains for the pitot ( and occasionally static ) system to remove condensation or rain that got past the drains ( marked as in the photo below ) : <URL> Regarding other contaminants , at altitude the air is generally pretty clean . The biggest problem you 'll have with contaminants in the pitot tube is usually bugs ( either building a nest in the opening , or smacking into it in flight ) . Pitot covers can be used on the ground to prevent this ( and they 're also used when washing or painting aircraft to prevent water or paint from getting into the system ) . Often some tape serves the same purpose - but you need to be sure to remove the tape or cover before flying .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
First , these answers insofar as the licenses and airline operations apply to the U.S. system since that is all I am familiar with . You must have a Flight Engineer license to operate as an FE . Just as a pilot 's license has ratings on it , so does an FE license , and you have to have a rating that matches what you 're flying . My FE license has a single rating , TURBOJET POWERED , so I could not sit as an FE in other than a jet aircraft . In the days when 3-man cockpits were the norm , the usual career course at large carriers was to start out as an FE ( second officer ) , progress to being an FO ( first officer ) , and then a captain . In that system , if the FE was incapacitated , it was likely that one if not both of the pilots had actually been an FE . The U.S military continued with FEs well after the 3rd seat came out of civilian aircraft ( I think they still do , but am not sure ) . Military FEs were typically never intended to become pilots . When all new civilian aircraft being manufactured were 2-man cockpits , but lesser airlines were still flying the old 3-man cockpits ( think freight carriers in particular ) , former military FEs became the source for their FEs and were considered professional FEs , in other words they would not be progressing to a pilot seat . A few did , but they were definitely the exception . The two 747 carriers I worked for hired pilots into the FO seat . The FEs they hired had to have A&amp;P licenses as well as an FE license , the reason being that the company wanted them to be able to perform and sign off minor maintenance problems that occurred in remote places ( think Africa especially ) where maintenance was n't locally available . With only a couple of exceptions , every FE I ever flew with was ex-military with an A&amp;P , and they knew the airplane mechanically better than I . In the airline ground schools , especially the initial groundschool , the FE panel and its operation were thoroughly covered in the material presented and in the testing . The oral exam for the aircraft type rating thoroughly covered that FE panel . As I remember my 747 type rating oral was 3 to 4 hours long . Fortunately I got through that and the sim ride on the first try . Not all do . So , in the case of an incapacitated FE in the 10 years I was on the 747 , it was likely that neither pilot had actually operated as an FE . However , he would have studied it in ground school and had demonstrated an understanding in an oral exam . There is , though , nothing like experience and currency . Every once in awhile I would get out to a cold airplane before the FE had arrived and would want to start the APU . This was usually at a remote station without local maintenance . There was , of course , a procedure for doing this , and I had a copy . But even with that check list and doing everything very carefully , I always breathed a sigh of relief when the APU started and there were no problems . If the APU failed to start on the first try , I usually waited for the FE to arrive . I might try a second time if I knew he was going to be awhile , but never a third . The old 747-100/200 had a lot of switches , and interesting things could happen if the APU was started and the switches were not properly set . I always did an outside check to make sure all gear doors were closed and that nobody was around the bottom of the airplane . If a gear door was down , and switches were not set right , when the APU started , the doors would immediately close when the hydraulics were pressurized . Anyone in the way would certain get hurt . Individual pilots on the line varied greatly in their knowledge of the FE panel . FOs were at a disadvantage insofar as watching it be operated . They ca n't see it well . Captains can see it . However , some FEs resented captains looking at it too much , feeling that was their turf . What I often did during cruise , as much to pass the time as learn , was to let the FE be my tutor .
Most aircraft utilize a weight on wheels switch . When the landing strut is compressed when ground contact is made , the weight on wheels switch is activated . The signal is distributed to various systems in the aircraft , including the spoiler system . The spoiler is activated as soon as the aircraft touches the ground to " scrub off " any lift and to make sure the aircraft does n't become airborne as the jet engines spool down .
Windmill starts are a rather last-resort type of thing . Lots of things have to go wrong before pilots will be attempting that . First , an engine has to fail . Since airliners are required to have at least 2 engines , and be able to fly on one engine , this is n't a dire emergency . Pilots will work the associated checklists . If there is no apparent issue they may attempt to restart the engine using bleed air from the running engine . If there is an issue they will leave it shut down . With thousands of planes in the air , this sort of thing happens pretty much daily . <URL> , and generally due to <URL> . Pilots may be more aggressive in trying to get even a damaged engine started , as a damaged one is better then none at all . The APU may be started and used to help start the engines as well . <URL> which tends to be running out when gliding with no engines running . <URL> , engines are required as part of certification to demonstrate windmill starts . <URL> This establishes limits and guidelines that are put into the aircraft checklists . Pilots know that if they maintain a certain air speed , the engines should reach a certain RPM , which will allow them to be started . Of course if multiple engines have already failed , there is a chance that this issue will prevent a restart .
No , there is no decrease or change with the use of pitot heat . The pitot system measures pressure . There is no airflow through the system in normal operation . Any airflow through the system would be due to a system failure which led to leakage .
The directional gyro ( DG ) does not know about heading . Its gyroscope will hold its position ( e.g. the heading you set from the magnetic compass ) in space . The plane is turning " around it " , but DG is holding its position , so you can read the heading from the scale fixed to the airplane while the gyroscope holds its position in space . Only friction and other forces ( acceleration forced upon the aircraft ) force the gyroscope to wander from its position . E.g. the gyro shows a magnetic heading if set using a magnetic compass and it shows a true heading if set using a GPS ( or some map feature like a road with a heading visible on a map ) .
In a constant speed prop , the prop control lever basically changes the speed of the prop ( it is not always running at the same speed as you indicate in your question , but rather once the speed is changed by the prop control lever , the governor keeps it at that speed ) . If power ( or airspeed ) is changed , the blade angle will automatically change in order to keep the prop turning at the same speed ( within the limits that it is designed for ) . Since adding power would normally increase the speed of the prop , the governor automatically changes the blade angle in order to keep it at the same speed . The same is true when power is reduced or airspeed is changed . Thrust is changed by engine power because , even though the prop is turning at the same speed , the angle of attack of the prop has been changed , which changes the amount of thrust . For more general information about how a constant speed prop works , see this question and answers : <URL>
Modern commercial airliners have 2 different wind shear protection system : 1 ) predictive wind shear warning system 2 ) reactive wind shear warning system . These systems work independently . PWS ( predictive wind shear ) works with weather radar . Reactive wind shear works with FAC ( Flight augmentation computer ) Basicly PWS can be switched ON and OFF from the WX-Radar panel and it has some prerequisite for working : Ground speed should be above 30 KTS , WX-Radar should be ON , At least one engine working etc. ( may differ with different types ) . PWS scans 5 NM ahead from 0-2300 ft and 1500 ft below according to phase of the flight . It works like a doppler radar . It scans the movement of air mass in front of you and " predicts " something goes wrong and warns you according to how bad is the situation . Doppler frequency will shift significantly in case of a microburst so PWS will catch this shift and warn pilots with amber or red cautions . Reactive Wind shear system works with on board computers that takes real time data from all sources . This system will be active generally from 50 ft 1300 ft. ( may differ ) Reactive Wind Shear basiclly monitors aircrafts energy level . For Airbus ; FAC is responsible for that . In computing the energy level FACs use different data from different sources : ADIRS - air , ground speed , vertical speed , slope . from other sources - wind gradient , vertical wind etc. . It will be active when the a/c energy level goes below predetermined threshold . It will alter from amber to red if your energy losing trend is faster . You can read this document from airbus includes many general aviation information for more details : <URL> Hope it helps .
The pitot-static system ( and the airspeed indicator ) does n't care about the speed of the aircraft with respect to the ground . It is concerned only with the speed of air with respect to the aircraft ( that is why it is called airspeed and not groundspeed indicator ) . So , if your aircraft is on ground and experiences a headwind of 60 kt , the airspeed indicator will show an airspeed of 60 kt , in an ideal case . This is important because the wing generates lift depending on the airspeed , not the ground speed ( forgetting about stuff like ground effect , etc. ) . This means that if an aircraft is parked on the ground and there is a headwind of sufficient velocity , it will try to lift the aircraft up .
Yes . In the Navy , our primary source of altitude indication under 5,000 ft is the radar altimeter . The AGL over the ocean conveniently also happens to be the MSL as well .
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
There are actually a couple of different towing mechanisms out there . You 've got your traditional banner pick , with the ropes and the hooks and all that , but there 's also a new type of billboard mechanism that allows a tow aircraft to take off with the billboard already attached ; it unfurls as the aircraft gains altitude , and can eliminate a potential inefficiency in the process ( some days are worse for banner picks than others due to high winds , turbulence , etc. ) , but it limits the tow aircraft to some pretty small billboards and letter banners are pretty much a no-go . Talking about the traditional method of banner towing , there are a couple of things to cover . The banner/billboard setup on the ground - they will be attached to a tow rope ( usually about 200 feet long ) with a loop at the end . This loop is strung out between two poles a small distance apart . The goal of a banner pick is to have the hook pass between the poles , thru the loop ; do that and you will be able to pick the banner off the ground . The banner or billboard will be laid down upwind of the poles ( with the tow rope fully extended ) , so that the pick takes place into the wind ; the lower ground speed will help with timing and allow the banner or billboard to come off the ground more smoothly . A small windsock is a common addition next to the poles to make it easier for the pilot to spot them and to give some local wind information . The banners and billboards may be set up parallel to a runway ( usually the active runway ) , or there may be a designated spot elsewhere on the field . The hook itself is attached to aircraft with a tow hitch and it is possible to have multiple hitches on the same aircraft ( highest number i ever saw was 4 on a Piper Pawnee ) ; they get used sequentially i.e. drop the hook , pick up the banner , fly the banner , drop the banner , drop the next hook , pick up the next banner , fly said banner , and so on until you run out of hooks . Most of the time , hooks that are not in use will be tied down somewhere accessible to the pilot who will drop them manually . That Pawnee I mentioned earlier , however , had the hooks attached to hitches on the aircraft 's belly , from where they would be released with a switch , so there 's more than one way to skin a cat . The hooks are normally attached prior to engine start and the pilot needs to make sure there is no slack in the line , to avoid it becoming entangled in rudder or elevator cables ( more on that later ) , or other assorted bits and pieces of equipment . Banner tow procedures Take off is normal , but depending on your hook and cockpit setup , you may have to hold the hook in your throttle hand as you 're taking off ( this was the case with the Husky I towed in ) . Be careful not to hit anything with it . After climbing through about 50 feet AGL , side-step the runway , and drop the hook . Procedure varies depending on your setup , but we used to extend the arm holding the hook as far out the window as we could get , give a gentle tap on the rudder to kick the tail out of the way and toss the hook outwards and away from the airplane . Kicking the rudder was important due to the way the rudder control cables ran in the Husky ; we had one pilot who did n't and nearly wrecked when the rope got fouled around the cables , forcing a rudder hard-over once there was tension in the line after the pick - fortunately he was a big guy and the runway was sufficiently long that he was able to overpower the rudder and make a safe landing . Tossing the hook outwards is important lest it get caught up in the propwash and bang against the skin of the aircraft . Again , this happened ( was n't me though ) . Coming around for the banner pick - depending on where the banners are set up , you may end up flying almost a regular traffic pattern , but it usually happens at much lower altitudes ( 5-600 feet ) and the banner tow waiver may require that you avoid flying over populated areas to do so , so you may end up flying , say a right-hand pattern instead of your regular left . Either way you end up doing it , you want to end up downwind of the poles , similarly , if you will , to coming in for landing . The actual banner pick - this is where you 'll see a lot of variation . Some outfits will come in flat , just above the poles and pull up once they pass them ( unusual , but some do it that way ) , others will come in high and dive towards the poles , and pull up once past them ( it 's very pretty and dramatic , but not a lot of room for error IMO ) . We used to be a bit more sedate about it , and came in as if for a landing , with the goal of touching down at the top of the banner ( i.e. the end nearest to you ) . Obviously , you have to correct for crosswind , which you can do by shifting your line left or right depending on wind direction ; the goal is to place the hook , which is trailing behind you and getting blown about by the wind , between the poles . Either way you do it , once you pass the poles , you pitch up immediately to at least 45 degrees or so , and apply f
Audible Warning On light aircraft there is a reed ( much like used on a musical wind instrument ) mounted on one wing root , which is angled such that at the Angle of Attack which would cause a stall , the reed " plays " which can be heard in the cockpit . Here is a view of where this system is mounted on a Cessna <URL> On some aircraft , it is a similar principal , however instead of a reed , it uses a fin which at critical AoA pushes a micro-switch which activates a buzzer/horn inside the cockpit . Here is the assembly on a Beech 18 <URL> So , if you ever see anyone doing this : They are not kissing their aircraft for good luck , merely testing the stall warn as part of pre-flight checks ! Tactile Warning In addition to an audible reed/buzz/horn , most aircraft also provide tactile feedback to the pilot of an impending stall . In purely mechanical aircraft the aerodynamic forces on the control surfaces are transmitted through the mechanisms and are felt directly by the pilot when approaching a stall . In hydraulic or fly-by-wire aircraft , this is provided by a mechanical " stick shaker " linked to the same system as sounding the audible alarm .
end question
start question
Do multiple go-arounds on the same flight happen in commercial aviation ?
None of four airlines I worked for ( two commuters , two Part 121 ) had specific guidance as to the max number of go-arounds . However , as mentioned in the other answers , 2 or 3 was believed to be a good rule . The only time I did multiple go-arounds , all missed approaches , was trying to get into Pullman , WA during a snowstorm in the late 1980s in an SA-227 Metroliner . I tried the VOR approach 3 times . Each time when we got down to the MDA , we did not have the forward visibility to descend further . Each of the 3 times the station personnel saw us pass over , and each time passengers looking out the windows saw the runway below us when we were overhead . That , of course , resulted in our being criticized when we arrived at our alternate by some passengers for not having landed at Pullman . I had explained en route to the alternate the problem with forward visibility , but when you 've disrupted people 's travel plans , they do n't want to listen . I briefly considered the feasibility , when we were over the runway , of entering a tight left turn to see if I could keep the runway in sight , but I rejected that . And , yes , I considered descending below the MDA before catching sight of the runway . That would have been doable as I was very familiar with the airport and knew that the gently rolling fields around the airport topped out well below the MDA . The problem was that with all the snow on the ground and the snow in the air , we could n't determine our altitude above the ground visually until we were actually over the runway . The fields around the airport had no trees , they were wheat fields in season . Even if I had chosen to bust the MDA , I still would have been too high for any kind of a normal landing when I caught sight of the runway end . If getting down was an emergency , we could have done it . It was n't technically legal , but you could go into beta with the props and really drop out of the sky , then as you flared come out of beta . But it was n't an emergency , so we went to our alternate , which was actually our next stop anyway , so all of the passengers were n't unhappy . The advantage of multiple approaches is that conditions might get better while you 're doing them , and you can get in . The disadvantage is that the nervous energy you 're expending is telling . Our SA-227s had no-autopilots , no radar altimeters , and , of course , no GPS . I imagine that these days that airport has one or more GPS approaches that would make landing in those conditions a piece of cake .
The FAA has a document on their website which breaks knowledge tests down by FSDO rather than state , and it gives a good idea of where the most training is taking place . It is called : <URL> , and lists the following Regions/FSDO 's as processing the most knowledge tests ( in descending order ) 1 : Southern 28,333 Orlando 9,996 South Florida 5,958 Alabama &amp; NW Florida 4,680 Atlanta 3,882 Tampa 2,504 Western Pacific 18,416 Scottsdale 6,053 Riverside 1,556 San Diego 1,463 Sacramento 1,460 Long Beach 1,327 Fresno 1,270 Los Angeles 1,142 San Jose 1,121 Southwest 15,943 Dallas 2,731 Fort Worth 2,581 Houston 2,438 Oklahoma City 2,347 San Antonio 2,321 Eastern 14,552 Richmond 1,956 Greensboro 1,366 Farmingdale 1,280 Philadelphia 1,198 New York City 1,069 Boston 1,041 Great Lakes 11,860 Fargo 2,120 Dupage 1,414 Indianapolis 1,358 Minneapolis 1,142 East Michigan 1,111 Northwest Mountain 9,784 Denver 2,205 Portland 2,131 Salt Lake City 1,964 Seattle 1,611 Central 9,019 Nashville 4,293 Wichita 1,304 Alaskan 812 Based on this data , I would say that the areas surrounding the Orlando , Scottsdale , South Florida , Alabama &amp; NW Florida , Nashville , and Atlanta FSDO 's are the most popular training areas , with the Southern region being the most popular by far . 1 To improve readability , all FSDO 's with less than 1,000 tests have been removed . See the source data for the complete list .
If the airway is too far away to accurately determine which leg you are going to intercept , why would you let the G1000 pick the leg you are going to intercept ? You know best what you want and , as you say , ATC may change your heading anyway . So you should n't intercept automatically until you are fairly sure where you are intercepting . Instead you remain in HDG mode which gives you full control and makes it easy when ATC instructs you to change heading . Then when you are a couple of miles from intercepting you select the leg and let the G1000 do the magic if you want to . Automation is there to relieve you from difficult or boring tasks . If you find that you spend a lot of time programming your FMS , it may be better to reduce the level of automation and spend the extra time on situational awareness . I recommend watching this America Airlines training video on <URL> ( a.k.a. " Children of the magenta line " ) . It addresses the FMS / autoflight dependecies for airline pilots . The video is over 15 years old and by now similar automation systems have entered the cockpits of small aircraft . Although some aspects of the video address a multicrew environment , the main points are equally valid for G1000 equipped single crew / single engine propeller aircraft .
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
I guess I have just been flying too long . I just have chores that I do every five minutes , and I lookup my watch/clock probably two times a minute . So it 's pretty hard to miss things . Even when flying an aircraft without an electrical system . On my knee board I keep a list of things that I have to do in Zulu time , such as reports , fuel changes and things like that . I do n't like relying on smartphones , tablets or specific equipment in the plane with the exception of a timer , which almost every plane has , and a clock . I have a back up to the timer and the clock on my knee board . As of yet the math is still something I can manage . I encourage you to consider the same , because a reliance an electronic systems will create inconsistencies if you move between different aircraft . On the other hand if you rely on simple timekeeping instruments , which you carry backups for with you on every flight , then you can move from one aircraft to another with confidence that you can still manage the temporal tasks .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
Alcohols are typically very effective de-icers ( consider that ordinary vodka wo n't freeze until -17 * C , and ethylene glycol , a " diol " or " double alcohol " with two hydroxyl groups , is used as an antifreeze in automotive coolant ) , but virtually all of them are flammable in some concentration , so it could affect the engine , but unless the engine drew straight deicer through the fuel line it would be unlikely to cause a major problem . First , it would depend on exactly which deicing compound is being used ; the most common are methanol , ethylene glycol , propylene glycol and glycerin . These all have different flash points and different heats of combustion ( the amount of energy released by burning them ) which will differ more or less dramatically from those of 100LL or Jet A . The closer a compound is in its combustion characteristics to that of the actual fuel , the more it will act like the fuel and thus the fewer problems you 'll have ; ideally , a compound that is indistinguishable from the aircraft 's fuel will simply result in a richer mixture if it 's ingested through the air intake ( which can be easily corrected with the mixture knob ) , while if it 's fed through the fuel line you 'll see no difference at all in the short term ( in the long term the de-icer might cause more buildup of combustion byproducts inside the engine requiring cleaning ) . If there is a difference in combustion characteristics , you 'll see a difference in engine performance relative to the amount being ingested by the engine . A lower flash point for the de-icer means it will ignite before the fuel does and can cause misfires in the engine which is bad ( the timescale for exactly how bad depends on the severity and timing of the misfires and the type of engine ) . A higher flashpoint will cause the engine to lose power , as the de-icer wo n't burn as efficiently in the combustion chamber , and if ingested through the air intake , will displace oxygen . De-icer mixed with water is probably the worst case scenario , as under no circumstances will fuel , de-icer and water all sit in a homogeneous solution . Again it depends on how much the engine gets , but the addition of water will act to quench combustion and can cause an engine failure that you 're unlikely to recover from in the air ( once water gets into an engine it 's very difficult to get it back out ) . With a jet engine , most of these considerations are reduced by the simple fact that as much as 80 % of the air entering the nacelle never enters the actual combustion chamber . So , ground crews at major airports can be much more liberal with de-icer around engine intakes ( and should be , as the pressure differentials inherent in and around a jet intake can increase ice crystal formation ) . Further , commercial jet engines have to be rated to withstand ridiculous amounts of ingested materials of all kinds , including water , birds , dust/sand , etc. . A little de-icer is probably the friendliest foreign substance to be introduced into a passenger jet 's turbofans during its service life . Finally , a simple search for " anti-ice " turns up several variants of aviation and automotive fuel with de-icing components mixed in ; it 's especially important for automotive fuel as most of these fuels contain ethanol which is hygroscopic ( it will pull water out of the air ) causing ethanol-water ice crystals to form in the fuel lines . AvGas is an older formulation that still uses tetraethyllead and no ethanol , but water contamination is still possible and so a fuel stabilizer ( which also typically acts as a deicer ) is a common addition to winter fuel tanks . So , aircraft manufacturers know that de-icer will be fed into the engines in some way or other , and they design those engines to be tolerant of it .
Yes . The tail numbers are indeed places on a placard inside the cockpits of commercial airplanes . Following are some examples :
Aerodynamically , you want the aspect ratio to be as high as it can be ( for a given wing area ) . You want infinite wingspan , because that results in no induced drag . But that is not very practical at airports , and a bit heavy . Structurally , you want short stubby wings because they have a very low bending moment . In fact structurally , you want zero wing span . But that is not very practical at take-off time . As always , aerodynamic desirability implies structural objections , and vice versa . The aerodynamicists need to strike a deal with the structures engineers : a balance needs to be found . As long a wing span as possible , with as thick a profile as possible , using a material that is as light as possible . So a long wingspan is desirable and is only limited by structural constraints : as you say , at a certain point the longer wing span 's increased weight will offset any aerodynamic advantages . In aluminium , the optimum was reached over the course of a few decades . But now there is a new material with a better strength/weight ratio : composite carbon fibre . Carbon is much stronger than aluminium , and it is woven in a matrix of resin , with most wires running in the direction of highest stress . With carbon fibre , even the direction of material strength can be optimised . And the B787 and A350 have even higher aspect ratios than the B777 .
According to <URL> , the flight you are referring to , SQ21 , got discontinued in November 2013 . The runner up , still from Singapore Airlines , SQ37 , got discontinued one month earlier . The <URL> reports that QF8 is the current holder of the title of " longest non-stop flight " and has the same destinations as today 's QF7 as of <URL> Qatar Airways flights 920/921 , covering 14,534 km ( 7,848 nm / 9,031 mi ) from <URL> to <URL> , beats QF8 by about 395 NM . If we instead include 1-time-only flight by a commercial airliner , the longest one has been flown in <URL> between Hong Kong and London , as a <URL> by Boeing . The title of absolute longest flight without refueling is instead held by a <URL> done in an aircraft specifically built for the purpose .
The first thing I would point out is that LAX is n't going to be running simultaneous approaches on 24L and 24R or 25L and 25R . They 'll select one of each of the parallel sets for the landing runways ( typically the outer runways ) , and one of each for departing runways ( typically the inner runways ) . For example , they might be landing on 25L and 24R and departing 25R and 24L . So , there 's quite a bit of distance between those runways , and very little risk in a go around situation . Here 's a diagram illustrating LAX 's typical arrival/departure runway usage to make it more visually apparent what I mean : The second part of your question about an aircraft taking off at the same time as a go-around certainly happens , and when it does , ATC needs to take action to ensure safety and separation . ATC separation requirements can be satisfied by altitude , distance , or divergence ( and , in some cases , visual contact ) . In the situation you described , divergence is the quickest and safest way to achieve separation . I believe the requirement is 30 ° , so tower would typically order a go-around and order a new heading at least 30 ° off of runway heading . The geography of the area , layout of the airspace , and the approach patterns would likely dictate the exact procedure used at each airport since their two primary goals , in order , are going to be 1 . safety , and 2 . getting them back in the approach sequence . In the LAX example , a go-around on 24R would most likely get a right turn , and 25L would most likely get left turn ( away from the airport ) so as not to conflict with other departing or arriving traffic . This is one of a few reasons the outer runways are preferred for landing .
Assuming your question is for the US airspace . Short answer : When the activation periods can not be totally anticipated , the description of the area must reference the possibility of activation announced by NOTAM . The NOTAM notice is normally not shorter than 4 hours before the activation . While IFR flights will be prevented by ATC to enter or transit an active restricted area , non-controlled flights are under the sole responsibility of the pilot , as regard to flying within a restricted area . A VFR pilot must take <URL> for restricted areas into account when preparing the flight ( FSS ) , and should contact ATC when airborne for confirmation of the activation status . From the pilot standpoint You should not enter an inactive restricted area without contacting the controlling agency . From <URL> : Penetration of restricted areas without authorization from the using or controlling agency may be extremely hazardous to the aircraft and its occupants You are not allowed to enter an active restricted area without prior permission . From the Federal Register , <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft within a restricted area between the designated altitudes and during the time of designation , unless he has the advance permission of ( a ) The using agency described in § 73.15 ; or ( b ) The controlling agency described in § 73.17 . FAA ATC , as the controlling agency , manages restricted area transit or avoidance , based on activation status , but only for IFR flights . A pilot of a non-controlled flight ( e.g. VFR ) has the sole and complete responsibility for getting all information about the restrictions that may apply during its flight over a restricted area . The briefing with <URL> should include such research , contacting ATC prior to entering the restricted area seems the minimum . From controlling / using agencies standpoint A restricted area is part of the SUA ( Special Use Airspace areas ) , and is jointly managed by Using and Controlling agencies . <URL> , 21-2-4 , Times of use : a . The times of use indicate the period during which the using agency is authorized to schedule and use a SUA area . These times should reflect when normal operations are expected to occur . In determining the times of use , the proponent should select the minimum period needed to meet the using agency 's requirements . The goal is to capture the majority of the day-to-day activities . When the using agency has a requirement for intermittent , less frequent use of the airspace ( outside the specific published timeperiod ) , a provision to activate the airspace by NOTAM may be stated in the SUA legal description . What does that say ? If some periods of activation can not be anticipated , the phrasing " by NOTAM " must be used . NOTAM activation . Use " By NOTAM " or " Other Times by NOTAM " to indicate when a NOTAM must be issued in order to activate the area . Regarding the notice prior to activation by NOTAM : ( e ) . NOTAMs should be issued as far in advance as feasible to ensure widest dissemination of the information to airspace users . Normally , the minimum advance notice should be at least 4 hours prior to the activation time . NOTE - Under no circumstances may SUA be activated by a NOTAM unless the words " By NOTAM " or " other times by NOTAM " are stated in the area 's legal description . A 4-hour notice is the minimum usually accepted for the publication of the NOTAM prior to activation of the restricted area . I assume the exceptions would be handled on a case by case basis . An area without a NOTAM mention can not be activated outside of the published periods . Example : Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
None of four airlines I worked for ( two commuters , two Part 121 ) had specific guidance as to the max number of go-arounds . However , as mentioned in the other answers , 2 or 3 was believed to be a good rule . The only time I did multiple go-arounds , all missed approaches , was trying to get into Pullman , WA during a snowstorm in the late 1980s in an SA-227 Metroliner . I tried the VOR approach 3 times . Each time when we got down to the MDA , we did not have the forward visibility to descend further . Each of the 3 times the station personnel saw us pass over , and each time passengers looking out the windows saw the runway below us when we were overhead . That , of course , resulted in our being criticized when we arrived at our alternate by some passengers for not having landed at Pullman . I had explained en route to the alternate the problem with forward visibility , but when you 've disrupted people 's travel plans , they do n't want to listen . I briefly considered the feasibility , when we were over the runway , of entering a tight left turn to see if I could keep the runway in sight , but I rejected that . And , yes , I considered descending below the MDA before catching sight of the runway . That would have been doable as I was very familiar with the airport and knew that the gently rolling fields around the airport topped out well below the MDA . The problem was that with all the snow on the ground and the snow in the air , we could n't determine our altitude above the ground visually until we were actually over the runway . The fields around the airport had no trees , they were wheat fields in season . Even if I had chosen to bust the MDA , I still would have been too high for any kind of a normal landing when I caught sight of the runway end . If getting down was an emergency , we could have done it . It was n't technically legal , but you could go into beta with the props and really drop out of the sky , then as you flared come out of beta . But it was n't an emergency , so we went to our alternate , which was actually our next stop anyway , so all of the passengers were n't unhappy . The advantage of multiple approaches is that conditions might get better while you 're doing them , and you can get in . The disadvantage is that the nervous energy you 're expending is telling . Our SA-227s had no-autopilots , no radar altimeters , and , of course , no GPS . I imagine that these days that airport has one or more GPS approaches that would make landing in those conditions a piece of cake .
When there are several airports close to each other , a single ATC , formally known as Terminal Control Center may service all airports . The airspace boundaries and altitudes assigned to a Terminal Control Center , which vary widely from airport to airport , are based on factors such as traffic flows , neighboring airports and terrain . <URL> is an example of a large and complex Terminal Control Center . Its service area is up to 20,000 feet and out to 100 nautical miles . It controls : six London airports one Royal Air Force station provides en-route services to other aircraft that entered its airspace Another example can be found with <URL> and <URL> , which have adjacent control zones that share a common boundary west to east and have an overlaying class C TMA airspace up to FL100 . Both airports share the same TMA controller/approach sector : Image Source : www.skyvector.com FAA is implementing a new airspace system which will increase efficiencies at metropolitan areas with complex air traffic flows . This system , known as <URL> is introducing the concept of a <URL> : In FAA parlance , metroplex refers to a system of airports in close proximity and their shared airspace that serve one or more major cities . A metroplex has at least one , but often two or more major commercial airports .
See Chapter 4 of this IATA document for flight crew management of unruly passengers . <URL> In general , they will weed a lot of the negative behavior out on the ground prior to boarding by looking for signs of agitation or aggressiveness towards other passengers or crew . Should a passenger becom unruly while enroute , the following is generally done . Assess the situation and level threat : what 's happening ? who is doing it ? what are their grievances ? Are the legitimate e.g. . A family member having a medical emergency or trivial e.g. Passenger in 22B is drunk and aggressive ? If there are other than legitimate reasons for the disruption , action in taken using the use-of-force continuum : Physical presence - flight crew will be nearby watching subject . Verbal commands - confront subject . Inform them of both the airline 's and Law Enforcemnt 's zero tolerance policy toward their exhibited behavior . Inform them if they continue with this behavior the aircraft will be landed , they will be placed under arrest by LE on the ground , and that penalties for their actions are severe . Try to calm them down as well , but do NOT serve them alcohol , even if requested . If behavior continues , quietly inform the cockpit crew of the disruption and they will make arrangements to divert to nearby airport and inform local airport police and other LE agencies to be ready on the ground . If passenger has become so unruly that they are posing an immediate threat to other passengers around them , physical force can be used to restrain them by the flight crew . This poses a high risk and should only be done as a last resort to regain control of the cabin . If there is a federal Sky Marshall ( s ) on board they can assist the crew here as well . Restraints such as handcuffs and the waist belts may be used to immobilize subject until LE can take over . Divert will become urgent . Electro Muscular Disruptors - flight crews are now being equipped with and trained on the use of the TASER EMD systems to immobilize unruly passengers in order to restrain them . If subject 's actions pose an immediate threat to life and limb of passengers and threaten the safety of the aircraft and crew ( VERY low probability but it is is a contingency ) , deadly force may be used to neutralize the threat . Near as I know some Capt. / FOs do carry firearms as do Sky Marshals . I 'm not aware of guns being issued to flight attendants .
Proving that an aircraft is flyable with one or more engines inoperative is part of the certification programme . The Airbus A380 is certified under FAR ( Federal Aviation Regulations , USA ) part 25 and JAR ( Joint Aviation Regulations , Europe ) part 25 . One of the requirements of FAR/JAR 25 is that the directional control can be maintained when two critical engines ( that means under the same wing ) fail . The following is selectively extracted from <URL> ( JAR is similar , there are some differences ) . Emphasis added by me . Controllability and Maneuverability § 25.143 General . ... b ) It must be possible to make a smooth transition from one flight condition to any other flight condition without exceptional piloting skill , alertness , or strength , and without danger of exceeding the airplane limit-load factor under any probable operating conditions , including -- The sudden failure of the critical engine ; For airplanes with three or more engines , the sudden failure of the second critical engine when the airplane is in the en route , approach , or landing configuration and is trimmed with the critical engine inoperative ; ... $ $ § 25.147 Directional and lateral control . a ) Directional control ; general . It must be possible , with the wings level , to yaw into the operative engine and to safely make a reasonably sudden change in heading of up to 15 degrees in the direction of the critical inoperative engine . This must be shown at 1.3 VSR1 for heading changes up to 15 degrees ( except that the heading change at which the rudder pedal force is 150 pounds need not be exceeded ) , and with -- The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position ; The power required for level flight at 1.3 VSR1 , but not more than maximum continuous power ; The most unfavorable center of gravity ; Landing gear retracted ; Flaps in the approach position ; and Maximum landing weight . b ) Directional control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must meet the requirements of paragraph ( a ) of this section except that -- The two critical engines must be inoperative with their propellers ( if applicable ) in the minimum drag position ; [ Reserved ] The flaps must be in the most favorable climb position . c ) ... ... d ) ... e ) Lateral control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must be able to make 20 ° banked turns , with and against the inoperative engines , from steady flight at a speed equal to 1.3 VSR1 , with maximum continuous power , and with the airplane in the configuration prescribed by paragraph ( b ) of this section . f ) ... $ $ § 25.149 Minimum control speed . ... g ) For airplanes with three or more engines , VMCL-2 , the minimum control speed during approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative , is the calibrated airspeed at which , when a second critical engine is suddenly made inoperative , it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with both engines still inoperative , and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees . VMCL-2 must be established with -- ... ... $ $ § 25.161 Trim . ... e ) Airplanes with four or more engines . Each airplane with four or more engines must also maintain trim in rectilinear flight with the most unfavorable center of gravity and at the climb speed , configuration , and power required by § 25.123 ( a ) for the purpose of establishing the en route flight paths with two engines inoperative .
From the <URL> , page 4-41 ( as part of the Missed Approach section ) , there is a quote about what to do when you need to go around when operating beyond the missed approach point : In the event a balked ( rejected ) landing occurs at a position other than the published missed approach point , the pilot should contact ATC as soon as possible to obtain an amended clearance . I have seen several other references in FAA documents which say to " contact ATC as soon as practical " in similar situations , but nothing which specifically says to do it any time that a go around is initiated by the pilot ( i.e. under VFR ) . That being said , if you have received a specific clearance ( for a touch and go ) , and decide that you prefer to do something else ( low approach/go-around ) , you should always receive an amended clearance first . If you know ahead of time , your best option is probably to request the " option " , in which case you have a clearance to do either one . On the other hand , if the reason for the go-around is due to a safety issue then execute the go-around immediately when needed , and follow the above guidance to contact ATC as soon as practical if they do n't call you first . I was taught by my flight instructor to always report it , and the tower certainly needs to know about it in order to provide proper separation with other aircraft operating in the area . If nothing else , it is a " best practice " to ensure that the person in the tower does n't get distracted and not notice that you did n't land .
TL ; DR : No . For the true answer refer to the FAA <URL> 777-200 2 Pratt and Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4074 , PW4074D , PW4077 , PW4077D , PW4090 , PW4084D , and PW4090-3 ( Engine Type Certificate No . E46NE ) 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-76B , GE90-85B , GE90-90B , GE90-94B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 875-17 , RB211-Trent , 877-17 , RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 892-17 , or RB211 Trent 892B-17 , RB211 Trent 895-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 777-300 2 Rolls-Royce Turbofan Model : RB211-Trent 884-17 , RB211-Trent 884B-17 , or RB211-Trent 892-17 ( Engine Type Certificate E00050EN ) 2 Pratt &amp; Whitney Turbofan Model : PW4090 , PW4098 ( Engine Type Certificate E46N ) 777-300ER 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777-200LR 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN ) 777F 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-110B1 2 General Electric Turbofan Model : GE90-115B ( Engine Type Certificate No . E00049EN )
Redundancy , particularly during <URL> operations . How it works depends on the specific airplane type . In the most advanced systems with triple ( or more ) flight guidance computers ( FGCs ) , a " voting " concept is used during critical operations like autoland . All 3 computers calculate their commands independently , and vote on what to do . The middle value , or sometimes the average of the 2 " most similar " values , is then passed to the flight control actuators . In this way , if any one of the computers fails and starts producing garbage commands , those erroneous commands will not be selected ( they are automatically rejected by the voting scheme ) . A monitoring system can also detect a failed computer in this way and take it offline , allowing " fail-active " functionality -- an autoland can continue on the 2 remaining functional computers . Less complex aircraft , and aircraft without autoland , still sometimes have 2 FGCs , but do not support fail-active operation . In these systems only one of the two computers is active or selected at any given time . A transfer switch in the cockpit allows the pilot to transfer control from one computer to the other if one fails . And it 's not just airliners . Business jets commonly also have dual FGCs , and in recent times even small general aviation airplanes like the Diamond DA-42 have dual systems ( Garmin G1000 in dual-GFC700 configurations ) . <URL> ( click for high res version ) shows a Cessna Citation CJ business jet with dual Garmin autopilots . At the top of the PFD , notice there is a small green arrow pointing left ; this indicates the left FGC is currently selected . The photo also shows the XFR ( transfer ) button on the mode select panel , top center , just underneath the master caution/warning annunciator panel . Pushing this button would switch to the right ( # 2 ) FGC and change the arrow on the PFD to point to the right . These indications are fairly representative of other dual-FGC systems . <URL> of a Hawker 800 with Rockwell Collins Pro Line 21 . You can see the same arrow on the PFDs . In this aircraft the transfer switch is labeled " AP XFR " and is again on the autopilot panel just underneath the glareshield at the top of the panel toward the left hand side . And finally <URL> with 3 FGCs and full autoland capability . It 's a bit hard to read in this photo , but just above the autopilot disengage bar ( the " spacebar " looking thing on the right side of the mode select panel just under the glareshield ) the 3 buttons are labeled " A/P ENGAGE " , " L " " C " and " R " for the left , center and right FGCs . During an autoland all 3 would be selected and illuminated .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
end question
start question
Is the old paint removed before applying a new one ?
Yes , paint imposes a significant weight penalty on larger aircraft . On commercial airliners , that weight translates to a reduction in cargo , passenger and fuel carrying capacity , and that means less money to be made on every flight . That is why some airlines have chosen to remove most of the paint and opt for the bare-metal look . However , there are tradeoffs to be considered , such as the fact that bare metal is much more susceptible to corrosion . These days removing paint from an aircraft is a relatively straightforward proposition if you know what you are doing . There are a number of environmentally-friendly paint stripping chemicals available that when applied to the aircraft surface , cause the paint to bubble and lift off the underlying airframe . The paint can then be scraped off with plastic tools or removed with a pressure washer , and the stripping chemical is washed off . Other products are then used to clean remaining residue , treat the metal for corrosion protection , prime and paint . This explanation is intentionally simplistic , but it covers the basics to answer your question . If you want to see the process in action , you might check the many YouTube videos that show time-lapse recordings of aircraft being painted . Personally . I think they are fun to watch . :)
Check out this plot ( taken <URL> ) , of the lift coefficient against angle of attack . During takeoff roll , lift will be increasing due to the speed increasing , however not enough ( in general ) for the plane to achieve takeoff without rotation . Once rotation starts , the lift increases dramatically , for ( a very rough ) example , consider a plane on takeoff roll , then rotating to 15 degrees angle of attack . By looking at the lift/AoA plot , we can see that the lift coefficient increases from roughly 0.55 to 1.7 , giving roughly 3 times as much lift as before rotation .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
Turbofan engines do n't push all air through the combustion chamber . Instead part of it runs along the sides . <URL> This bypass region is where the ( cold ) air stream is redirected from to create the reverse thrust .
Actually , the FAA does n't always require the preceding airplane to clear the runway if they have the required separation unless it is dark ( when it is very hard to visually estimate distances ) . According to the <URL> : 3-10-6 . ANTICIPATING SEPARATION a. Landing clearance to succeeding aircraft in a landing sequence need not be withheld if you observe the positions of the aircraft and determine that prescribed runway separation will exist when the aircraft crosses the landing threshold . Issue traffic information to the succeeding aircraft if a preceding arrival has not been previously reported and when traffic will be departing prior to their arrival . EXAMPLE - " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land , number two following a United Seven-Thirty-Seven two mile final . Traffic will depart prior to your arrival . " " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land . Traffic will depart prior to your arrival . " NOTE - Landing sequence number is optional at tower facilities where the arrival sequence to the runway is established by the approach control . b. Anticipating separation must not be applied when conducting LUAW operations , except as authorized in paragraph 3-10-5b2 . Issue applicable traffic information when using this provision . EXAMPLE - " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land . Traffic will be a Boeing Seven-Fifty-Seven holding in position . " And the separation is specified in the same document : 3-10-3 . SAME RUNWAY SEPARATION a. Separate an arriving aircraft from another aircraft using the same runway by ensuring that the arriving aircraft does not cross the landing threshold until one of the following conditions exists or unless authorized in para 3-10-10 , Altitude Restricted Low Approach . The other aircraft has landed and is clear of the runway . ( See FIG 3-10-1 . ) Between sunrise and sunset , if you can determine distances by reference to suitable landmarks and the other aircraft has landed , it need not be clear of the runway if the following minimum distance from the landing threshold exists : ( a ) When a Category I aircraft is landing behind a Category I or II - 3,000 feet . ( b ) When a Category II aircraft is landing behind a Category I or II - 4,500 feet .
According to the Washington Post , Air Force One never refueled in mid-air with the president on board . If it needs to refuel , it usually does so at one of the U.S. military bases across the world . The retrofitted Boeing 747 that usually serves as the presidential jet can indeed refuel in flight -- but it has never done so with the president on board , military officials say . It has enough range to fly from Washington to Iraq without needing more fuel . On longer trips to Asia , it typically stops at U.S. military bases in Alaska or Germany . -- <URL>
Yes , since the ILS is just a set of radio signals emitted and received by aircraft , there can be more than one aircraft established on localizer and glidepath . The ILS does not lock or tune onto one single aircraft , it continuously broadcasts the localizer and glidepath signal . Since the localizer and glidepath antennas are located at the end of runway for the localizer and at the side of the runway for the glidepath , you will only need to worry about interference by aircraft on the ground , where they are close to the antennas and can deflect the signal due to proximity . This is why there are protection areas and aircraft need to hold at certain holding points , e.g. CAT II holding points when CAT II approaches are in use . Aircraft in the air can also interfere and deflect the signal , however the emitted signals spread in a cone , so other aircraft still can receive the correct signals . To quote <URL> from one of the comments : [ ... ] basically , the localizer is projected from the far end of the runway , and the glideslope is projected from the side of the runway at or near the touchdown target . Thus , aircraft in line to touch down on the ideal target will have good line-of-sight to both transmitter pairs ( unless there 's an aircraft in the ILS Critical Area ) <URL> ( Image Source : www.aopa.org ) ( Image Source : <URL> ( found via <URL> ) ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
It works , but it is just the wings . For a controlled flight , we 'd need two big fans for the wings ( one for each ) , two smaller fans for the elevators , and one more for the rudder . So that 's 5 fans for each airplane . The concept of controlled flight can be demonstrated by hanging two strings to any model airplane ( plastic ones recommended , model airplanes stall just like real planes ... ) . If we want to pitch up or down , we would need at least 3 strings . Another consequence of having the fans blow air backwards across the wing is , due to action and reaction , there is a thrust pushing the plane forward . That 's not a bad thing , planes are designed to move forward to get from A to B , not create lift vertically then settle down exactly where it started . So the 5-fan plane will move forward anyway . Engineers figured out it is better to have one fan , called the " propeller " , at the nose of the plane instead of 5 .
No , they were not designed separately . They were designed by people who had all participated in collaborations before . The origin was the research into unstable configurations performed by <URL> in Germany in the late 1970s by a modified F-104 , the control configured vehicle <URL> . <URL> F-104 CCV ( picture <URL> ) As a result , MBB designed the Taktisches Kampfflugzeug 90 ( or TKF-90 ) , the first design of an unstable delta canard which promised unmatched maneuverability . Since Germany could not afford to develop the aircraft all by itself , collaborations were started with both Dassault and BAe , so that French and British engineers could learn of the advantages of this layout . <URL> MBB TKF-90 concept ( picture <URL> ) First , BAe collaborated with MBB and joined the TKF-90 design , resulting in the European Collaborative Fighter proposal , only to continue on their own with two delta canard designs of their own , P. 106 and P. 110 . P. 106 had one engine and one vertical tail while P. 110 had two of both , like the TKF-90 . P. 106 was rejected by the RAF , but went into a collaboration with Saab and eventually became the JAS-39 . To be fair , the first company to build and fly a closely-coupled delta canard was Saab with their <URL> . Saab has a long history of innovative work , beginning with ejection seats in 1942 and sweptback jets in 1948 . <URL> Saab 37 Viggen ( picture <URL> ) . In contrast to the TKF-90 it was an aerodynamically stable layout . Meanwhile , MBB collaborated with Dassault in the Future European Fighter Aircraft ( FEFA ) program , so the French side learned of the advantages of a delta canard . Eventually , the French wanted less air-to-air capabilities and a smaller aircraft for better export chances , and the remaining FEFA partners continued in the European Fighter Aircraft ( EFA ) program which resulted in the EF-2000 , while Dassault went it alone with the Rafale . The EF-2000 is hampered to this day by this heritage . Its wing area was decreed by <URL> and <URL> to be no more than 50 m ² when a 60 m ² wing would had resulted in a much more capable design . Next , the British engineers insisted on a straight leading edge , ignorant of the fact that only a cranked delta would provide good post-stall pitch characteristics . They also refused to accept a <URL> , and the German side could only rescue the " smiling intake " in order to reduce the radar cross section of the EF-2000 somewhat . <URL> " Smiling intake " of the EF-2000 ( picture <URL> ) . The curved contour avoids corner reflections of electromagnetic waves . And do n't get me started on the odd location of the airbrake : On the center fuselage where it is least effective at high angle of attack and will blanket the single vertical tail . Designed by a committee with too many British engineers .
How does adding more options for engines for potential customers act as an advantage for the Aircraft Manufacturer ? There are a couple of ways of looking at this Why new options ? Why multiple options Change The A320 has been around a while , engines have improved a lot and newer types of engine exist now that were not available before , even though the A320 type airframe is still competetive . According to Airbus , new choice of engines allow for Lower fuel costs Lower maintenance costs Airbus is working on offering a new engine for the A320 known as the New Engine Option ( NEO ) . The choice for new engines include the CFM International LEAP-X and the Pratt &amp; Whitney PW1400G/PW1500G . The new engines will burn 16 % less fuel : the actual fuel gain on an A320 installation will be slightly less , since 1-2 % is typically lost upon installation on an existing aircraft . Airbus CEO said to be " comfortable " with the projections of 20 % lower maintenance cost for the Pratt &amp; Whitney 's PW1000G family , compared with today 's engines . From <URL> Choice Speculating a little : The people who buy and operate aircraft like having a choice of engine manufacturers . It helps keep the engine market competitive and it means they can , if they want , operate a range of aircraft all using engines from one maker - potentially allowing for savings in engine maintenance infrastructure . Aircraft operators sometimes do n't actually buy engines with their aircraft , they buy thrust from an engine maker and the engine maker ( effectively ) install their engines on the operators aircraft . The engines might remain the property of the maker . It may also be that aircraft makers do n't wish the future of their aircraft to be tied to a single supplier of engines . It makes negotiating harder and it makes their future prosperity dependent on the continued existence of one manufacturer .
You do not need to get another student pilot certificate . The endorsement you need is not for student pilots . 70 . To act as PIC of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating : § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 The answer lies in <URL> . Version F is the latest .
They do this for the same reason they make you <URL> during that period of flight . The first minutes of a flight ( take off and climb out ) as well as the last few ( approach and landing ) are the most critical and statistically the time that if things are going wrong they will go wrong . As such airlines shut down the IFE systems and ask users to shut down personal devices so that they can hear , and more importantly respond to any emergency directions that may be given during this critical time .
I ca n't say for sure , but I would assume that the pattern-based drills were removed because of the new emphasis on scenario-based ( " real world " ) training the FAA has been moving toward : While Pattern A and Pattern B are useful for honing your skills ( and I 'll even admit they 're kind of fun to fly ) they 're not something you 'll fly in the " real world " - you are unlikely to string together that particular set of elements in that particular order on any kind of regular basis . That does n't mean the Pattern A / Pattern B maneuvers are not useful tools or that the FAA " frowns on " them - they really do n't care how you acquire the skills necessary to pass your checkride and if flying Pattern A / Pattern B helps then by all means fly your heart out ! Just know that when you take your checkride you will not be asked to " Fly Pattern B " - it 's not an element of the practical test . A copy of the maneuver diagrams for Pattern A and Pattern B can be found in Gleim 's <URL> handout , which also has some valuable notes on how the maneuvers should be performed . Personally I prefer the diagrams from <URL> because I find them a little easier to read ( Patterns A &amp; B are listed as Patterns D &amp; E respectively , except the Gleim version of Pattern B includes a descent &amp; go-around at the end of the hold ) . I 've reproduced the Pattern E diagram below in case any of the links above break . <URL>
In general , nobody else does . When pilots arrive to an aircraft for the first flight of the day , extra checks are performed by the crew to verify aircraft systems are all working properly . These checks are done once per day and subsequent flights will perform abbreviated checks instead . A visual walk around inspection is accomplished before and after every flight . Maintenance will check on airplanes at required intervals but outside of specific checks ( associated with the carriers approved maintenance program ) the only time they 'll check something like a pitot tube is if the crew notes a problem and writes it up . At that point maintenance will address the issue to return the aircraft to airworthiness .
You kind of have two questions in one - When can I call Clearance Delivery to get my clearance ? and How long is that clearance good for ? <URL> - the local controllers will usually have your clearance 30 minutes before your scheduled departure . Sometimes you can get this information a little earlier yourself - the new Flight Service tools like <URL> can give you expected clearance and flight plan routing information based on what you filed , if the ATC computer already knows what it 's going to do with your flight . <URL> , and you can do the same thing yourself with the Lockheed-Martin tools with a few more manual steps . You still need to talk to the controllers but if you know what they 're going to say it makes that conversation faster ! The second part can go one of two ways : The point of the " void time " is that the ATC system is reserving a spot in the system for you up until that specific time . After that ATC is going to let other aircraft use the airspace they were holding for you ( they may allow someone to make an instrument approach to the airport you 're leaving from , for example ) . This is used a lot for non-towered fields where you have no local controller to talk to . Clearances from Clearance Delivery at a towered field can include a void time , but they generally do n't because they assume you 're in the plane and ready to go at or around the time you call in , and you have local controllers to talk to if you have a problem during the run-up or something which delays your departure . Basically the clearance is good until someone tells you otherwise in that situation . The tool that gets used at towered fields more often is : You 've been issued a clearance , but you ca n't execute it until the tower has coordinated you a spot in the airspace . This is generally more efficient than reserving airspace with a clearance and void time when there are controllers to talk to , and if everything is working well your release should be ready right around the time you 're ready to take the runway for departure .
The fire sensor 's time to give the alarm is customizable depending upon the fire safety alarm being used . Two widely used types of continuous-loop systems are the thermistor type detectors , such as the Kidde and the Fenwal systems , and the pneumatic pressure detector , such as the Lingberg system . ( Lindberg system is also known as Systron-Donner and , more recently , Meggitt Safety Systems . ) . A typical delay of 10 Seconds is quite common . Here is the <URL> for your further reading
According to <URL> : Almost every frequent flyer has encountered this sound at one time or another . [ ... ] It happens on twin-engine Airbus models : the A320 series ( includes the subvariants A319 and A321 ) and the larger A330 . [ ... ] What you hear is a device called the power transfer unit , or PTU , which is designed to ensure adequate hydraulic pressures during single-engine operations . [ ... ] Since it is activated only when the pressure falls below a certain level , the PTU cycles on and off , on and off , on and off . [ ... ] Some Boeing aircraft also employ a PTU , but the operation is slightly different and it does n't bark like a dog . Another noise peculiar to Airbus models is a shrill , prolonged whine heard at the gate prior to departure and again after landing . This is an electric hydraulic pump used to open and close the cargo doors .
This <URL> . It also says that the Design Approval Holder should make available an easy way to search the SB 's A DAH should develop a robust SB/AD tracking and management system using the following process to ensure overlaps and conflicts between new and existing SB actions are identified and addressed : a. Search capabilities should include the following primary areas : ( 1 ) Make/model or part number of affected product ( s ) , ( 2 ) Major aircraft elements ( e.g. , engine , strut , wing , etc. ) , ( 3 ) ATA code , ( 4 ) Maintenance zones , ( 5 ) Service information ( e.g. , service bulletin number ) , ( 6 ) Airworthiness limitation sections , ( 7 ) Previously issued ADs , and ( 8 ) Planned ADs ( i.e. , action ( s ) that the FAA proposes to mandate in an AD ) . This puts the ownership on the company a bit . The <URL> so you can check if they still list it as current . There is also a bit of duality between service bulletins and Air worthiness directives . SB 's are issued by the company if they feel there is a safety hazard to the aircraft . Most importantly , unless they are issued alongside an AD they may not be mandatory . You can <URL> that goes into it a bit more .
Restricted areas that have scheduled times will be noted in the ( sectional ) chart margins . In this example you 'll find this at the bottom of the Washington sectional chart : Ones without regularly scheduled hot times will say something like or . As you 've noted though restricted areas with posted hours may not always be " hot " during those hours - sometimes you get lucky . The best way to check if you 're going to be lucky prior to departure is to ask Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) : The briefers have access to the same data as ATC , and will know definitively if a restricted area is hot ( at least as of the time you call them ) . Obviously you should still call the controlling agency when airborne to verify the status of any special use airspace prior to entering it ( briefers can make mistakes , and some restricted areas may be activated on short notice which means they may go hot while you 're enroute ) .
The reference you quote is correct as it defines the " useful life " of the battery . that is : if you use it for more than 1 hour ( that would include the cumulative test time ) it must be recharged or replaced before being returned to service . But that is n't what you are asking about . You are asking for the duration of operation . The requirement for Duration of Operation is 24 hrs . RTCA DO-204A , MOPS for 406 MHz ELTs , states 1.5 Operational Goals b. Operability ( 1 ) The technical requirements of the 406 MHz beacon radiated signal are based on the COSPAS-SARSAT system . ( a ) The 24-hour operating life requirement ( § 2.2.1 ) is based upon the maximum COSPAS-SARSAT system waiting time , the number of satellite overpasses required to optimize the beacon location solution and battery capacity limitation at low temperatures . and 2.2.1 Duration of Operation Refer to COSPAS-SARSAT document C/S T. 001 . and from C/S T. 001 4.5.1 Duration of Continuous Operation The minimum duration of continuous operation shall be at least 24 hours * at any temperature throughout the specified operating temperature range . The minimum duration of continuous operation for an ELT ( DT ) to meet the ICAO GADSS requirement at any temperature throughout the specified operating temperature range shall be 20 † hours .
end question
start question
Can I become a pilot if I am under treatment for Attention Deficit Disorder ?
I 'm going to assume you 're asking about US/FAA requirements - If not what 's below may not be particularly helpful . ADD is not a disqualifying condition , however if you have a formal diagnosis of ADD or ADHD <URL> in order to receive a medical certificate . Also some of the medications used to treat ADD/ADHD may be disqualifying ( I know that Adderall , Focalin , and Ritalin were all on the FAA 's " No Fly " list - I 'm not sure if they 're still an absolute NO or if you can get approval for them ) . AOPA has <URL> that you can search to see if what you 've been prescribed is permitted - it 's a little easier to search/cross-reference than <URL> and they do a good job keeping it up to date , and <URL> . They also have a service to assist you with getting your medical ( as part of <URL> ) which can be helpful .
Based on the country you are looking for the certification , rules may be slightly changed . For India following syllabus is applicable ( Source : atcguild.com ) At present it is a year-long ab-initio training ( Under revision to make it in two sections of six months each ) Modules : Air Traffic Services Aerodromes and Ground Aids Air Legislation Meteorology Communication Procedures Technical Search and Rescue Air Navigation The selection shall be made on the basis of a Written test 50 % questions on subjects relating to educational qualifications prescribed 50 % on General Knowledge , General Intelligence , General Aptitude , English etc. . Voice test Personal Interview Medical fitness as per ICAO Annex-1 I Googled for the subject , but did n't find much information on the paper patterns or example papers .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
Ca n't hurt to ask ! I do n't know the specifics of the situation , but I would be willing to bet that your chances are better than you think . If it was one farmer with a grass strip and no accommodations for visiting aircraft you might be out of luck , but from what you describe it does n't sound like one extra airplane on the ground for a few hours is going to make that much of a difference . In fact , it might be that Fred ( or whoever ) will also be visiting friends for Labor Day and might be willing to let you use his ramp . They ca n't say yes if you do n't ask .
Absolutely . In fact it 's not a bad idea to do so , if only to get some practice filing flight plans and using the system . In the US VFR flight plans are a search-and-rescue tool : They 're only used if your aircraft is overdue to give the rescue folks information to help plan the search . In your particular case I would file a flight plan that lists your home airport as your departure and destination , with the airport you intend to use for your touch-and-go landings as an intermediate waypoint . If you want to enter information on the nature of the flight ( training , touch-and-gos at XXXX , etc. ) in the remarks field you can do that too . Activate the flight plan when you depart , and close it when you return to your home airport . You can optionally also call Flight Service over the radio when you get to the touch-and-go airport to give them a position report and let them know you 've reached that waypoint ( I would do this on your way out of the area to return home , along with an ETA update if appropriate ) . As an alternative ( or in addition to the VFR flight plan ) you could get <URL> from the ATC facility responsible for your airspace . Be aware that they may drop you and ask you to squawk VFR while you shoot your touch-and-gos since you 'll probably be going off their radar , but you can always request service again when you start your return leg .
As shown on page 77 of <URL> FAA document , the various tests needed for an AMES ( air multi engine sea ) rating depend on the ratings you already hold and your area of operation . Depending on your area of operation , holding an AMEL ( air multi engine land ) rating can allow you to skip most or all of the required tasks for an AMES rating . In many cases , an AMEL rating is actually better for getting an AMES rating than a single engine sea ( ASES ) rating will be . So in short , you do not need an ASES rating first , but having one can make the process of getting an AMES rating easier in certain areas of operation .
Yes and Yes ; As long as you are rated for the category , class , and type ( if required ) of the aircraft that you are receiving the training in you could log both PIC and dual received . 14 CFR 61.51 ( e ) ( i ) covers the logging of PIC time ( which is perfectly legal in the scenario that you describe if you are rated in the aircraft ) : <URL> ... ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( i ) When the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated , or has sport pilot privileges for that category and class of aircraft , if the aircraft class rating is appropriate ; Training time is logged per 14 CFR 61.51 ( h ) and you can log that too : ( h ) Logging training time . ( 1 ) A person may log training time when that person receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft , flight simulator , or flight training device . That being said , you may not act as the actual PIC however : <URL> ... ( i ) Additional training required for operating tailwheel airplanes . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( i ) ( 2 ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of a tailwheel airplane unless that person has received and logged flight training from an authorized instructor in a tailwheel airplane and received an endorsement in the person 's logbook from an authorized instructor who found the person proficient in the operation of a tailwheel airplane . The flight training must include at least the following maneuvers and procedures : ... Notice that the regulations governing acting as PIC are different than those governing logging of PIC time . This was done intentionally because there were so many pilots that were hired as SIC 's at airlines with little to no PIC time and flew for years . When it was time for them to upgrade they did n't have enough PIC time even though they had lots of experience and could easily upgrade safely .
You have a couple of options here : As Skip Miller said , you can take flight lessons . Up until you want to solo , you do n't need a medical certificate . Often flight schools have " Discovery Flights " for a reduced cost that still allows you to fly left seat and get half an hour to an hour of flight . Careful though , its addicting . Actual costs for this range from \ $ 75 to over \ $ 300 depending on the type of aircraft you are going to fly . Hourly rates for a Cessna 152 average around \ $ 90 an hour , to a 172 up to \ $ 150 an hour , and more sleek aircraft like a Cirrus SR-22 at \ $ 300 per hour or more . Instructor rates go from \ $ 35 per hour to \ $ 65 per hour ( typically ) depending on the type of instruction . Another option is to find a pilot who wants to build hours and go flying . They may let you fly the airplane around a little bit , but you 'll most likely be flying right seat and probably wo n't let you do the more complicated phases of flight like take-off/landing and operations in controlled airspace . If you find a pilot willing to do this then you can share costs ( split down the middle ) . By the way do n't get discouraged about your medical condition if you really want to fly . There are also a few options there too . First , you could go through the rather lengthy process with the FAA to have your case reviewed and if possible issued a special issuance medical certificate . Some of what you list are automatically disqualifying depending on the medications you may take , but <URL> and getting medicals issued . Second , you could get a sport pilot license , which also does not require a medical ( just a drivers license ) . There may be hiccups with your conditions here too , so its best to talk to an AME or flight instructor before getting too deep . Let me answer your specific question : Is there a way I can fly with a copilot without a pilot 's license ? I take this to mean that the " copilot " is a non-pilot rated passenger . Unless you are a certificated pilot , then no . A " co-pilot " must be just that , a pilot . Otherwise they are just a passenger sitting in the front seat . Since that person is a passenger , you must be a fully licensed pilot to fly with them ( students can not take passengers ) . If the copilot is a pilot rated individual , then yes , you can go flying with them ( provided it is not a Part 135 flight ) . That person must be rated for the aircraft that you are flying and must meet currency requirements to carry passengers ( you ) . <URL> under the supervision of the pilot provided the pilot is pilot in command and unless the pilot is a CFI , they are not providing instruction .
When I have had to file NOTAMs for skydiving demonstration jumps , I just called AFSS ( 1-877-4-US-NTMS ) and asked to file . The folks at Lockheed are way more helpful than the Feds used to be and will walk you through the process , but it is still good to have your information together before you call . At a minimum you need a description of your activity , altitudes in MSL , times in zulu , and a location . Location should be in reference to an aiport or nav aid ( " Within one nautical mile of the BFE airport " , or " 27nm from the BADGER VOR on the 340 radial , for a radius of 2 nm " ) . If the activity requires authorization , you will also need to have that squared away before calling .
Location Identifiers &amp; Airline Designators data files available with daily updates The perfect solution to feeding your coding database . These files ( more information in right hand column ) are available as a 12 month subscription or a one-time web download . For the subscription , you will be granted access to the password protected extranet site upon purchase where you can retrieve the data files update daily . <URL>
In the specific case of Canada , AOPA and COPA have a lot of information aimed at US pilots . AOPA has a <URL> on documents , customs etc. and COPA has <URL> with more information , which includes this remark : The flying rules are almost indistinguishable - reading the COPA guide should keep you legal and out of trouble . Make sure you get a Canada Flight Supplement ( CFS ) and some VNCs ( Canadian equivalent to your US sectionals ) , that will allow you to navigate VFR safely . IFR plates are available from Nav Canada as a subscription or the ( sample list of ) vendors included below . ( by mail order ) The guide is free but available to AOPA/COPA members only .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
Yes , with a couple of exceptions . FAR 61.123 contains the requirements for a commercial certificate , while 61.153 contains the requirements for an ATP certificate . <URL> states than an applicant must : Hold at least a private pilot certificate issued under this part or meet the requirements of § 61.73 <URL> refers to the option for military pilots to apply for an FAA certificate based on their military qualifications . For non-military pilots , the commercial certificate can only be earned after obtaining the private pilot certificate . <URL> includes the ability to use a foreign commercial or ATP certificate as a prerequisite . An applicant must : Meet at least one of the following requirements : ( 1 ) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating issued under this part ; ( 2 ) Meet the military experience requirements under § 61.73 of this part to qualify for a commercial pilot certificate , and an instrument rating if the person is a rated military pilot or former rated military pilot of an Armed Force of the United States ; or ( 3 ) Holds either a foreign airline transport pilot license with instrument privileges , or a foreign commercial pilot license with an instrument rating , that -- ( i ) Was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and ( ii ) Contains no geographical limitations .
Before I comment I have to ask your training habit : Do you fly one lesson each week , or only occasional lessons because you 're so busy , or 3 flying days each week , or full time ? Sometimes life gets in the way In terms of progress , 70 hours and just starting cross country flights seems to be on the slow side . But then , if you 're not training regularly , you ca n't blame the CFI for spending some time reviewing previous materials during each lesson . Ideally , the flight lesson pre-flight should go like this : CFI : Today we will be practicing steep turns . We will takeoff , head North to this area on the chart and practice there . Then we will fly North East and proceed to this airfield to practice some touch and go . Our weather report says there is weather system South of us , we need to keep an eye on it in case it moves North . I will work on the radios and navigate , you will be doing all the flying . Questions ? This establishes clear goals of the lesson . A good lesson should also conclude with a post-flight debriefing : CFI : Today I noticed that you did not enter the traffic pattern correctly . You entered like this , which is not good because of that , that , and that . Given the situation , you should have went like this . We will be practicing more traffic patterns in our next lesson . If the agenda is driven by the instructor instead , you 'll get more benefits : The goals of the lessons are clear . The instructor can adjust lessons based on your weakness . For example , if you were rather sluggish during engine-out emergencies , the CFI should review emergency procedures with you on the ground and give you more practice in the air . You may not be aware that you are not getting enough practice in some areas . You can prepare for the next lesson ahead . For example , if your next lesson is a cross country , you can review flight planning , navigation principles &amp; airspace regulations . Is your situation normal ? I 'm not an instructor so I do n't know , but it can be better . Then again , if your flying schedule is rather random , learning efficiency would be lower , and you end up spending more flying time and money . Now , falling asleep ... . To me , this is a big No No . I am just a student . I have not been certified ( yet ) that I can operate an airplane safely : What if I make a navigation error and end up heading to Area 51 ? What if I 'm heading into IMC and need to turn around ? What if the fuel level is reducing at a dangerous rate but I did n't notice ? What if I got a stuck elevator ? A flight instructor is seated in the same cockpit with the student to correct mistakes or react to situations in a timely manner . To fall asleep during a flight lesson is an irresponsible behavior to the student and other people on the ground who might get hurt if your plane crashes . Of course , flight instructors are all humans and we all tend to make mistakes . Perhaps he was overstretching himself . Perhaps he got a family emergency the night before and stayed up really late . If it was just one flight , I would pass but keep an eye on . If it happens continuously , it might be a good time to turn away and look somewhere else while you 're still safe .
This thread should be a great source of tips and tricks :) The way to think about this is to think about the purpose of being asked to divert during your checkride . What the examiner will be looking for is not that you have all of the information for every possible airport you might be asked to fly to . The examiner is wanting to see that if you had to divert unexpectedly for whatever reason , that you are able to do this safely . That 's the bottom line . In order to do this , you should start working on the problem during your ground planning , and for the purposes of your checkride , this will be no different to planning any other flight . Plan for your alternate . You should have charts , frequencies etc and of course , enough fuel . Your examiner is not going to ask you to divert to somewhere when you reach your destination , it 's going to be somewhere en-route . As part of any good plan , you are going to familiarise yourself with possible diversions along the route . If you had an urgent situation ( not a dire emergency where nearest available is the only choice ) requiring you to divert when you were flying solo after you gained your license , where would you go ? This does n't mean that you need every possible piece of information for every possible airport but it does mean : Do I have enough fuel to make possible diversions ? Do I have charts on board covering the areas to the left and right of my plan ? - Have I folded my charts so that it 's easy to see what possible diversions there are easily ? Do I have Jeppesen ( or whatever ) on board and is it up to date ? Have I checked the METARs and NOTAMs for anything significant for those likely diversions . Do I have my E6B or other planning tool and do I know how to use it fully ? Do I know what ATC agencies I would talk to along the route if I need assistance , even if flying in uncontrolled airspace ? In your notebook for the planned flight , write down the likely diversion airfields with their key details . The list above should be part of any plan , not just for your checkride . One of the key things you 're going to need to figure out is " how long will it take me to get to the diversion " ? In order to know this , you 're going to need to know the wind at the altitude you are going to be flying at . The way I handled this was to draw a circle on my chart , marked with the wind at altitude , then the corresponding ground speed already worked out on my E6B and written into the circle for each cardinal and mid-cardinal point on the compass rose . You can glance at this little chart to instantly see that if , for example , the requested diversion needs me to fly a heading of 320 , I will be doing 86 kts for an airspeed of 100 kts . This saves you having to actually use your E6B in the cockpit to do this . Mark off 0 , 45 , 90 , 135 etc. . If you think about it , doing this in planning will prepare you for any * sensible " diversion you might be asked to make . When it comes to the time of the diversion , the primary thing your examiner is looking for is do you get " aviate , navigate , communicate " ? The second thing the examiner is looking for is " can you safely divert from en-route " ? If you have planned thoroughly , and you follow aviate , navigate , communicate , then almost by definition , you will safely divert . So your examiner suddenly says , OK , see that completely unexpected giant sandstorm ahead , you need to get down soon . Please divert to " Mark Watney - Space Pirate " airport . Avoid the single , most important thing in this whole exercise at this point . Do no go into heads down mode . It 's easy to do if you are unprepared . Your head should be down for at most 15 seconds . Do each thing one step at a time , then scan and lookout . If you are well prepared and planned , then not going heads down will be easy . You now need 3 things immediately - everything else can come later . What heading do I need to fly ? How long will it take me to get there ? Can I make it ? For the heading , grab your chart , find the airport , then take a rough heading you need . You do n't , at this stage , need to be super accurate . Within 10 or 15 degrees will be good . The important thing is to begin flying to towards the diversion . You can get the ruler out and refine your heading once you 've got the initial diversion sorted out . Do n't forget to aviate . Keep your head moving , keep your scan and lookout going . When you set up for the new heading and turn on to it , remember the gross error check as you roll out . How long will it take ? Again , you do n't need to be super accurate . Grab a quick measure of the distance from the chart and your ruler . Then look at that wind chart you prepared earlier . Get your estimated ground speed . Can I get there ? You should know the aircrafts ' fuels consumption numbers so do the quick calculation in your head . During all of this , remember to aviate at all times . Also , remember to conduct your normal en-route and turn check lists . Now it 's time to communicate .
No , because in a turn the local " level " continuously changes . Lets say you are heading north and turning right . So your floor is banked to the east and the gyro is accumulating bias to east too . But after you make 90 ° , you are heading to the east and your bank is now to the south , so the gyro is accumulating bias to the south while the bias to the east is already reducing . So the gyro will never show precisely correct level , but it will never indicate level in the turn . Regarding whether ring laser gyroscope will behave the same , it is a bit more complicated . The righting of the gyroscope is not inherent property of the gyroscope . It is added to compensate for curvature and rotation of Earth . A gyroscope made not to right itself maintains the same axis of rotation relative to distant stars . But as you fly along the curved surface of Earth , and as the Earth rotates with you , different stars will be getting into zenith . So the gyroscope has to be continuously adjusted to the local level . When you have single gyroscope for use as attitude indicator , it needs a righting mechanism whether it is a mechanical or ring laser one and that mechanism will cause the same kind ( and similar magnitude ) of error in turns . However a complete inertial navigation system can improve the precision . Such system knows how you move and so it can calculate how the local level , relative to distant stars , differs from the initial and can include this correction . It will still do some righting , using average acceleration , to correct for drift , but it can take the average over longer time , so the error in turns grows more slowly .
I have flown several times to SJC for touch and goes . I have always been on the weekends , and probably in the afternoons . It is a lot of fun , especially because the runways are so long for a small plane . I think I 've been three times , and each time they have accommodated me on 30L . The wind is almost always favoring the 30 runways , and I do n't remember ever being cleared for 30R . They will occasionally make you circle briefly before entering the C . They will also sometimes make you extend for a pretty long pattern to the SE if they have a big fella cleared for 30R . All the big commercial jets seem to be sent to 30R , and it is small GA jets that use 30L . I have only done touch and goes , as I wanted to get out of the way quickly . But I get the impression that the tower is happy to accommodate as long as they 're not too busy . My instructor told me that they sometimes will say ' no ' if they are busy , especially during the morning push , but I have no experience of that . Have fun ! There 's a beautiful 787 that is often at the terminal , keep an eye out for it !
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
Really this is a moot point ... <URL> ( a ) states : ( a ) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate -- ( 1 ) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued ; or ( 2 ) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire . And again ( e ) states : ( e ) No person may operate an aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) of this chapter for compensation or hire , except a person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) ( 1 ) for compensation or hire to -- ( 1 ) Tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309 ; or ( 2 ) Conduct flight training in an aircraft which that person provides prior to January 31 , 2010 . <URL> is in reference to operating light-sport aircraft and how it obtains an experimental certificate . There are very few auto-gyros that are factory built and certified , and none that I can find that are currently being built . Anything you build in your home ( home-built ) needs to pass certain FAA inspections before it is issued an airworthiness certificate and/or experimental certificate . All home-builts are experimental since they are not built under the manufacturers quality control system . Either way , the FAA certifies that you build it to a safe standard and a standard in which the manufacturer intended it to fly . Being used for a commercial purpose , even if that were possible ( which it is not ) would not change the certification process for that aircraft . It would not require you to abide by any different rules or build standards . That is implying that personal aircraft would be built to a lower safety standard than commercial ones , which is n't the case .
As I pointed out in <URL> of mine , it is not legal to use a cell phone in flight , and as <URL> to the same question says , it really does n't work very well anyway . . Now , if the pilot has an emergency , they can exercise the emergency authority of the PIC as allowed in <URL> ( b ) to go ahead and use the cell phone . If it is just the radio failure though , that is n't usually an emergency since there are other procedures in place for radio failures . Radio Failure Procedures <URL> contains the procedures to use in the event of a radio failure . Basically , if the pilot is in visual conditions ( VMC ) and can remain that way , they should fly VFR ( visually ) and land as soon as practical . If they ca n't remain in VMC then there are a number of rules which spell out the route and altitude that they should fly , as well as when they should start an instrument approach . Once they get to an airport they will still need to get clearance to land if it is a towered airport . <URL> covers that , and basically the tower will communicate with the pilot via light gun signals : <URL>
end question
start question
Under what conditions do airliners retire aircraft and sell them to other airlines ?
Some reasons for an airline to sell some of its fleet : they need quick cash ( as ratchet freak points out ) . This usually means the company is in serious trouble they 're changing their route network and there 's no more need for it ( e.g. KLM dropped a lot of very short flights in the 1990s and early 2000s , and got rid of the aircraft that were operating them as they were inappropriate for the longer routes that replaced them ) they bought out another airline and have no need for ( all ) its aircraft , or want to replace them with other types to keep their fleet homogenous ( operating many similar types is less economical than operating a smaller number of types ) they 're splitting part of their operations to a new company set up for the purpose ( the new company becoming the new owner of the aircraft , usually for a symbolic fee ) , for example a regional affiliate or a charter operation it may be more economical to replace the aircraft then to keep them . When NWA decided to replace their DC9 fleet with A320s this was for economic reasons ( lower maintenance and fuel cost for example ) , not because the aircraft had run out of fatigue life . The aircraft were old so most probably were scrapped , but some may well have ended up with airlines in other countries , replacing even older aircraft or expanding existing DC9 fleets there . and some airlines just want to portray a public image of always flying shiny new aircraft . I believe Singapore Airlines used to have a policy like that and replace everything it bought relatively quickly ( more so than most other airlines at least ) . PanAm was like that as well . If you have a reputation of exclusivity , this may add to customers ' willingness to pay premium to fly with you
They can operate with 0 passengers , but will most likely not generate any revenue ( unless cargo is carried to generate additional revenue ) . Revenue and profit on a passenger flight ( assuming no paid cargo ) will be based upon how many tickets were sold at which price , so the number of passengers required for any given flight to break even will be variable and can not be answered in a general way .
This answer assumes that you are asking about the business name chosen by various air transport companies , such as " American Airlines " vs " British Airways " . Short answer : There is no difference semantically . It 's purely a marketing decision . The company decides which " sounds better " , and uses that as their official business name . There are several other similar nouns used in business names as well : " Air " ( either before or after ) : Air France . Korean Air . Or even as part of the name : Ryanair . " Aviation " : Grant Aviation . And then do n't forget that Delta uses a space : Delta Air Lines . And then there are even some companies using several different nouns throughout their sub-divisions : " Trans Executive Airlines of Hawaii " is the name of a single airline company , but their cargo services are performed under the name " Transair " , and their passenger services are performed under the name " Interisland Airways " Long answer : There is some historical context , going back to the days when ocean travel was the only form of international travel between continents separated by oceans . A " line " was a route between two points . A " liner " , then , was a ship that sailed that line . Since it was on the ocean , it was commonly called an Ocean Liner , and companies that popped up to provide a scheduled service on those lines used the term " line " or " liner " in their name : <URL> , or <URL> . When Trains came into being , they took up the same vernacular from their ocean transport heritage . The system of rails between two points was usually built by a company for its own use , and was sometimes called a " railroad " , or a " railway " , with no discernible reason why some chose one term over the other . The term " line " was still used , interwoven into the industry : a " main line " was a company 's main route between two cities , and a " spur line " would branch off to a smaller town . Some companies named themselves with either the " roads " or the " ways " part : The <URL> , or the <URL> . The next major transformation in the transportation industry was air travel , which again borrowed terminology from both its ocean and rail heritage . An " air line " was a route between two points , and an aircraft providing service on that line was an " air liner " , and company names went one of two directions : Air Lines ( such as " <URL> " ) , or Airways ( such as " <URL> " ) The terms " air liner " ( for an aircraft ) and " air line " ( for a company ) eventually worked their way into the single-word terms as we know them , and they are officially defined , today . But even in the early days , there were still many different nouns working their way into the company names : National Air Transport , Western Air Express , or Ford Air Transport Service . Following the <URL> , ( in which existing companies had to give up their air mail routes ) , many companies either merged or simply changed their names to re-gain air mail contracts . Several companies with names of XXX Air Lines ( with the space ) simply changed to XXX Airlines ( without the space ) , and this is now why we see this term ( Airlines ) in company names today . ( with Delta Air Lines being a notable difference )
IATA issues duplicate airline codes to regional airlines where the codes are not likely to overlap , from <URL> : Controlled duplicates are issued to regional airlines whose destinations are not likely to overlap , so that the same code is shared by two airlines . This happens because IATA uses a 2-letter code for for airlines which has a limited range of available codes . Since NCA does n't operate a passenger service in the same region as Fika Salaama , it would be very unlikely to confuse the two .
If an airline has an accident , the chances are you ( as the next set of passengers to board that plane ) will be the least of their concerns - if there 's an incident then it tends to be a case of all hands to action stations to deal with the media , emergency services , families of any potential victims , provide assistance where possible etc. . That said , they do have some procedures they attempt to follow . These vary a little from airline to airline . Most will make an attempt to contact you via text/email if they have it or via the GDS to your travel agent , depending on how far away you are from your departure day/time . It also depends whether you gave contact information to the carrier or your travel agent , whether your travel agent passed it on or , indeed , whether you used a travel agent at all . The next set of passengers rightly tends to be second priority after dealing with the incident , however . Often if you 're on the next flight , therefore , the communication will be a little slow and the first you 'll know about it will be when you arrive at the airport - also remember that there 's a good chance you 're already at the airport , or are on a connecting flight . If you get to the airport , you 'll likely be informed by the staff there who will attempt to get you onto another flight with the same company or another carrier . As an addition from the comment below , if you 're a family member etc who 's signed up to flight alerts from the airline in order to hear about delays/diversions etc ( some airlines provide this as a service to avoid inconvenience and avoid too much waiting traffic at the terminal ) , then you 'll likely be one of the first priorities . The system is normally set up to send automated or manually-triggered pre-written messages , but in an emergency will usually be used to send a manual message to relevant family members etc. . Obviously this only applies if you 've signed up to the service , and only usually applies to the airline 's own service : if you 've signed up with a third party flight tracking service , they likely have no more information than you do .
Gates are usually not charged to airlines separately . Gate fee is usually part of the landing fee package . Landing fees are an important part of the airport revenue , with passenger fees . Airport pricing is subject to recommendations from ICAO , IATA , and other organizations , as regard scope of costs to be taken into consideration , and non-discrimination of airlines . Pricing is determined by the organization managing the airport and/or State or local administration . Single till vs dual till : Distinguishes between aeronautical and non-aeronautical ( commercial ) charges . Airport schedule pricing may use single or dual till . See : <URL> - IATA . <URL> . ICAO guidelines tries to maintain some principles for airport business across all countries : Landing charges : Should be based on the aircraft weight formula . The maximum certificated take-off weight as indicated in the certificate of airworthiness ( or other prescribed document ) should be used , while considering local restrictions that may affect aircraft maximum take-off weight . Allowance should be made for the use of a fixed charge per aircraft or a combination of a fixed charge with a weight-related element , in certain circumstances , such as at congested airports and during peak periods . Parking and hangar charges : For the determination of charges associated with use of parking , hangar and long-term storage of aircraft , maximum permissible take-off weight and/or aircraft dimensions ( area occupied ) and length of stay should be used so far as possible as the basis.Any period of free parking time for aircraft immediately following landing should be determined locally by considering aircraft scheduling , space availability and other pertinent factors . Other charges : -- Passenger service charges -- Security charges -- Noise-related charges -- Emissions-related aircraft charges Albeit a bit old , The Airport Business by Rigas Doganis has a chapter on <URL> which discusses this topic in depth . Extracts : Landing fees : Charged per aircraft , usually based on MTOW ( maximum takeoff weight ) . On most airports covers ATC , runways , taxiways , parking at stand or apron for a certain time ( e.g. 2 hours ) , use of gates / fingers / terminal for disembarking ( use for departure may be paying ) , take-off . Surcharges or rebates in addition of landing fees : For noise , peak-hour operations , Parking and hangar : Beyond the free-parking period covered by the landing fees . Usually based on weight . Passenger charges : per departing passenger , sometime per arriving passenger too . It is easy to find pricing for airports online . <URL> airport ( 2015 ) Rates are different for domestic and international flights . Charges per passenger for landing and passenger facility . For domestic flights , additional landing charges per ton of MTOW . Charges for diversion . Parking charges beyond 2 hours , paid per arrangement with airport . New York <URL> ( 2015 ) Charge for aircraft landing , per thousand pounds of MGLW ( maximum gross landing weight ) . Additional charge for day landing or takeoff ( not for schedule airlines ) . Charge for using public passenger ramp and apron area ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking and storage , per 8-hour slot , based on MGTOW ( maximum gross takeoff weight ) . Agreement possible for operators of aircrafts . No charge for air terminal use . Charge for each passenger departing . <URL> ( 2013 ) Landing fee , based on MGLW , different between permitted and non-permitted air carriers . No charge for remote gates bussing service . Charge for using ramp , apron and remote area , ( in some cases , when congestion ) . Charge for parking , per 1000 lbs of MGLW , per day , after 3 hours .
FAA has letters of agreement with US DOD , which authorizes certain military aircraft to fly faster than 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet . A good example of this would be the <URL> , described in <URL> : 12-10-11 . AUTHORIZATIONS T-38 / T-1 airspeeds in excess of 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet MSL are authorized by competent military authority in accordance with FAA Order 7110.65 and the letter of authorization granted to DOD . The reason for this waiver is discussed in <URL> : THE T-38 'S SPD WAS ABOUT 330 KTS ; THE SPD LIMITATION OF 250 KTS HAD BEEN WAIVED FOR T-38 ACFT , DUE TO THE ACFT 'S LACK OF CONTROLLABILITY AT THE LOWER SPD . The relevant letter from <URL> : <URL> Also , from <URL> : 14 CFR Part 91.117 covers aircraft speed . Recognizing that some DoD aircraft performance requirements exceed 250 knots , the FAA issued an exemption to 14 CFR Part 91.117 . The exemption has been claimed for other aircraft too - like <URL> : ... climb-out occurs at 350 KCAS for an air-to-air configured jet and 330 KCAS on one with air-to-ground ordnance . ... this is significantly higher than the 14 CFR speed restriction of 250 knots below 10,000 feet . The F-15E , like most fighter aircraft , falls under the Letter of Agreement between the DoD and FAA allowing some military aircraft a waiver to that speed limit .
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
1 . Money Meals are available at different prices . Most US airlines know you are n't choosing them on the basis of cuisine and pick the lowest priced meal they can get away with . Other airlines eg Emirates , Singapore compete by offering high customer services and so invest more money in better food and service . 2 . Culture Airlines which are mostly flying a home market will adapt the food to the traditions of the country . EL-AL are n't going to be serving bacon cheese-burgers and Air India used to do very good veggie curries .
Yes , absolutely . The skin transfers shear stresses between the <URL> which run lengthwise along the fuselage and transmit tensile or compressive stress . Cutouts and openings ( for doors and windows ) need special local reinforcements , so the reduced structure can still withstand the loads . Equally , the wing skin is the main element for the transmission of torsional loads . In today 's airliners , the spar is part of the skin , but the wing skin ahead and aft of it is also a part of the primary structure . Generally , stress follows stiffness . When a structure is loaded , it will deform , and those parts which withstand deformation most will carry most of the load . In the end , all parts which have similar stiffness will carry loads in proportion to their cross section . Since most of an airliner 's structure is made from aluminum , it has the same stiffness . See <URL> for one example clearly showing fuselage skin deformation .
By far , most civil aircraft lack radar to display conflicting traffic , and certainly to enhance traffic situational awareness . TCAS and the use of ADS-B are the most effective tools for traffic conflict and situational awareness information . Lidar is not presently utilized on civil aircraft for traffic avoidance . Keep in mind that TCAS essentially uses the same mechanisms as secondary ATC radar .
<URL> covers all the regs pretty well . But in short the key point on class G ( uncontrolled ) is Although ATC has no authority or responsibility to control air traffic , pilots should remember there are visual flight rules ( VFR ) minimums which apply to Class G airspace . Class G airspace also holds no specific entry requirements ( aside from VFR minimums ) , no specific aircraft equipment ( no radio , no transponder etc ) and no minimum pilot certificate requirement ( but you still need a license ( one of a few varieties ) you just do n't need anything in addition like the instrument rating requirements for class A ) . On the contrary glass G airspace ( uncontrolled ) is not a free for all and you are not free to do as you please in some regards . While ATC has no reach into Class G the FAA does and you are still bound by the regulations the FAA puts forth that apply to class G airspace . Likewise the definition they provide for controlled is Controlled airspace is a generic term that covers the different classifications of airspace and defined dimensions within which air traffic control ( ATC ) service is provided in accordance with the airspace classification . If you are wondering what the specific purpose of ATC is they define that as well , The primary purpose of the ATC system is to prevent a collision between aircraft operating in the system and to organize and expedite the flow of traffic .
They still want to get into the low cost segment but want to market themselves differently for better penetration . You can only present so many images of a brand to customers : You ca n't show both the super-cheap prices with happy youth on them and posh first class at the same time . They do not want to tarnish a nice brand by mixing it with a low cost carrier and what that is perceived to entail . For instance , Germanwings got a somewhat infamous reputation recently , and Lufthansa is probably happy their name was not more frequently used in media . Low cost is also associated with less good customer service and hidden fees . Crew are often less well paid , and they are sometimes put under a separate working agreement and company to try to prevent conflicts . Some legacy carriers have very good pay which is difficult to reduce . Management does not want to be bound by these when expanding or adjusting their business . Each case is pretty specific depending on exactly they are trying to do and achieve . For many American Carriers and Lufthansa , the last one is probably the principle reason .
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Cool room in a cargo terminal . The rabbit arrived fine but there was some sort of mistake and he was locked inside a freezer overnight . Goods that are perishable and human remains awaiting transport , wait in the freezer before being loaded onto flights . Different rooms for cargo handling can be <URL> , they include : Cool rooms Freezer rooms Warm rooms ( for e.g. perishable flowers ) Dangerous goods rooms There are also specialized <URL> 's that come with refrigeration units . <URL> ( <URL> ) Temperature controlled ULD . [ Depending ] on the nature of the goods to be transported , [ ULD 's ] may have built-in refrigeration units .
For a short introduction on what ADS-B is and why it is called dependent see <URL> . ADS-B is a surveillance technology whereby the aircraft broadcasts information about its identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft to any interesting party . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . TCAS ADS-B is not intended to replace TCAS , although in the future it will augment TCAS . The TCAS algorithm currently only uses distance and altitude to calculate whether there is a conflict and to determine the best conflict resolution strategy . With the more accurate ADS-B position available to the system as well , the number of TCAS interrogation can be reduced ( the surveillance radio frequencies are getting congested in some areas ) and the performance of TCAS can be improved . A new standard for this hybrid approach was <URL> <URL> . It may also be possible to have a passive TCAS-like system that does not require active interrogation but is purely depending on ADS-B . Currently a technical standard for a new <URL> ( ACAS , the generic name for TCAS ) is being developed in a joint RTCA / EUROCAE committee ( RTCA SC-147 / EUROCAE WG-75 ) , which will take advantage of more data offered by ADS-B . This new standard will eventually replace TCAS II . A ' TCAS light ' for small aviation has also been developed based on ADS-B . It is called Traffic Situation Awareness with Alerts ( TSAA ) , a standard that was <URL> <URL> . Within the next couple of years we will see manufacturers start offering products based on this standard . ATC The purpose of ADS-B is neither to replace ground based ATC . But it will change the way ATC is done . ADS-B IN will improve the situation awareness of pilots ; they will have a display of accurate positions of other aircraft . New procedures will allow pilots to maintain visual separation to other aircraft in marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) , where they currently would often lose sight of other traffic . A more advanced usage of ADS-B will be flight deck based interval management ( FIM ) where ATC will be able to instruct aircraft to ' follow that plane XX seconds behind for landing on runway YY ' . A first technical standard for FIM is being worked on , it is intended to be published before the end of this year . ADS-B is neither a replacement for all radars , although it will allow the number of radars to be reduced . For remote areas that currently do not have radar coverage because of the associated high costs , ADS-B will be a cost effective alternative . Over the oceans , satellite <URL> will be able to provide surveillance , changing the way ATC is performed over the high seas . GNSS Given the examples above , it is easy to understand the requirements on the reliability of ADS-B are substantial . Not only must the system be able to deliver accurate position data , it must be able to deliver that data with high integrity . That means , the probability that the system transmits inaccurate position data , even when there is a failure in the system , must be extremely small . To achieve this , a positioning systems must be able to do internal cross checks to detect failures and not depend on possible erroneous inputs from humans . GPS can meet the position source requirements using Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) . The ADS-B technical specifications have all been written in such a way that they do not explicitly require GNSS to be the position source , but at the moment it is the only system that meets the requirement effectively . Most certification documents are written with the assumption that a GNSS will be used to provide position data . Theoretically one could put another system forward , but the costs of certifying that would be very high .
The practice of naming aircraft probably comes from the days of the flying boat , and the naval tradition of naming ships - <URL> had many named aircraft , and <URL> . Other airlines of the period had similar naming practices ( I 'm not sure who started it , but Pan Am 's fleet was well known for it ) . As a marketing tool telling folks they 're flying on " Clipper Emerald Isle from New York to Dublin " may have been more attractive to passengers than " Pan Am Flight 12345 " or N880PA . Particularly before the commoditization of air travel , when flying was still a new and novel form of transportation , having a connection back to familiar " sailing " metaphors may have helped get passengers on board and could help differentiate your service from another airline . Modern airlines do n't seem to push their aircraft naming as much as historic carriers did , but <URL> - in fact Lufthansa paints their plane names onto the fuselage , though I 'm not sure if they announce them to passengers . A skilled marketing department could build a brand around ship names , but I 'm not aware of any airline doing so today .
According to smartcockpit.com , warning is given when the gear has not been extended and the aircraft is in the landing configuration . Specifically , • All landing gear not down and locked , flaps selected to 15 or 35 $ ^ { \ circ } $ , and both power levers at any position less than 50 % torque . • Landing gear not down and locked , one or both power levers at or near FLT IDLE and airspeed below 130 kts . The warning also sounds when the aircraft landing gear is up and terrain clearance is inadequate during the cruise and approach phase of flight . <URL> Image from Dash8-200 / 300 - Warning Systems from smartcockpit.com
<URL> which is mostly about licensing . However X-Plane also has an <URL> is legal for certain training/instructional hours . You can find more info on the FAA 's approved simulators <URL> and <URL> . The flight school I trained at had a certified sim from the 80 's that was pretty miserable by todays standards . It was certified and had no screen , I would say it was " custom built " FWIW . Many airlines may turn back to the manufacturer for recurrent training . Both <URL> and <URL> run facilities with full motion simulators . I would think they built the software in-house but I do n't have any hard evidence on that . As the OEM builder they have access to genuine interior parts to build the sims . For smaller aircraft places like <URL> in full motion sims but <URL> SIMCOM uses actual aircraft interiors ( most likely from defunct airframes ) for their sims . <URL>
The accounts that have been published of F-117 missions indicate that they generally flew single-ship , rather than formation missions , and it seems probable that B-2 aircraft do likewise . So in a sense , the important question for those aircraft is n't " how do I know where ( another stealth aircraft operating nearby ) IS , " but " how do I ensure that we do n't collide with each other , " and that 's a much easier question . There are several ways to " deconflict " multiple aircraft operating in relatively close proximity that do n't involve seeing or painting each other on radar . One aircraft operates at one altitude , another operates at a different altitude is one method , while timing over a point ( you get to waypoint ABC no later than 19:00:00 , and I 'll be there no sooner than 19:00:30 ) is another , and physical separation ( you stay west of this longitude line , I stay east ) is another . In practice , all of these can be combined to ensure that " your " mission is deconflicted from " my " mission . Of note , it is n't only stealth aircraft that will use tactics like this . Helicopters operating blacked out at night do n't have air-to-air radar , and even with NVG 's , the ability to see each other is n't reliable enough to plan on " see and avoid " and the " big sky theory " to preclude a mid-air , so they 'll use some fairly detailed deconfliction plans incorporating separation in space and time . More recent stealth aircraft such as the F-22 and F-35 are <URL> to have <URL> capabilities so that they can " see " each other without radar , by means of an encrypted , stealthy broadcast of each aircraft 's position and track . This would allow multiple aircraft to fly in formation ( not close formation , but perhaps 1000 ' or more apart ) , and to work with other aircraft equipped with the same datalink , so even though the bad guys would only be able to see the non-stealth aircraft on radar , the friendlies could all see each other .
end question
start question
Can a 747 land at Ovda ?
<URL> seems relevant but I do n't understand it :-( It has charts like this ( assuming you want to be able to take off again sometime in the future - otherwise you might run out of 747s quite quickly ) I think there 's a landing equivalent if you need to know how much , ... erm ... cargo , to jettison .
This is based on knowledge and a little experience . I have flown a Wessex to a hover and they are big , heavy , powerful beasts . If your example our good friend Simon refers to me , then I must also state that I only have about 130 hours so limited hours is more accurate :) It is said that if you can fly one helicopter , then you can fly another . Indeed , I learned on the R22 and it 's a " fact " ( insofar as if enough people repeat something enough times , it becomes a " fact " ) that if you can fly the R22 , then you can fly anything because it demands careful handling and has very small power margins . I have never heard a really experienced pilot refute that . If we assume that you have enough fuel and that there is no complex fuel system which requires switching of pumps to keep the engines fed , then yes , you could land anything with one notable exception . Nearly all helicopters have a couple , either manual or automatic , between the demand for power ( how much pitch you are asking for ) and the engine power output . Raise the collective and the throttle is automatically opened and vice-versa . This is certainly true about transport category aircraft . On something like early Hilliers , I would need to learn pretty fast that as I increase pitch , I must roll on throttle otherwise , I will stall when I try to climb or raise the lever to come into the hover . This is practised during PPL but I must admit , I 've never used manual throttle control since I got my license . Another area of concern would be over controlling but that 's easy to deal with . I am now thrust into the pilots seat of a type I do n't know and I am not licensed for . I am going to land on the nearest safe spot . I 'm not going to do anything fancy whatsoever so , if I need a descent , I will lower the lever gently and use the cyclic to maintain my speed . Then I 'll climb a little by gently raising the cyclic until I start to climb . All helicopters fly nicely at about 60 kts so I will pitch for that speed . The only thing I need to look at to ensure the limits are n't busted is airspeed . Any helicopter pilot would get the feel of this in very little time as would any fixed wing pilot . It 's just a question of how heavy the controls are and how much they physically need to move but that 's quickly explored by starting gently and using just enough to do what you need to do . Let 's assume that the subject craft does have automatic throttle control . I will also assume that we are in VMC otherwise , we are all going to die . There are only two other areas of concern that I can think of and that 's the type of the landing gear ( skids vs wheels and how many ) and the height of your seat above the ground . One major difference between rotaries and fixed wing is that there is no stall speed and all helicopters can land with the same forward speed and rate of descent . I can , if I want to , bring the craft to a hover and stop to have a good think about what comes next . To come into a hover is also easy . You can do it by the numbers but the practical way is to keep your speed over the ground so that the site picture is apparently a fast walking speed and keep the landing spot in the centre of the window . if the landing spot moves up , decrease your rate of descent and vice-versa . Do this , and you will arrive close to the spot at a sensible speed and with a low rate of descent . Vortex ring state wo n't be a concern for me . I wo n't know at which speed I will lose translational lift but it will be somewhere between 10 and 15 kt , so I 'll be waiting for that little shudder to start and the nose to swing a little , ready to bring in power and pedal . I believe that most , perhaps all , wheeled transport helicopters have wheel brakes , but I will have no clue how use these . So , I am going to land zero-zero and ensure that I am directly into wind and on a level surface . The next think is how will I know when I 've landed ? When I first landed a B206 , it was on my conversion course so I already knew how to land smoothly . All I had to do to deal with the extra height I was sitting above the ground was " feel " the aircraft down . It can be surprisingly difficult to know when a helicopter is fully on the ground and not flying it all the way down is one way to get into trouble . I would deal with this by feeling for the first contact and then smoothly , but not too quickly , lowering the lever . This does two things . It ensures a firm contact and removes my biggest landing worry in an unfamiliar type which is dynamic rollover . It wo n't be pretty and I might even get a blade strike somewhere but with power now off , we 'll all walk away . So in summary , I would n't need any assistance but , if I can figure out where the transmit button is and how to tune the radio , I will try to get some anyway .
Pressurization is controlled by two processes : air in and air out . Air is constantly being let out of the cabin through ( at least ) 2 outflow valves , typically located at the aft limit of the pressure vessel . Air is let into the cabin through the air cycle machines ( a.k.a the " packs " ) which are provided with very hot and high pressure air from the compressor stage of the engines and eventually output into the cabin through the air conditioning vents . During normal cruise flight , the mass flow rate of air into the cabin is constant ( because the flow rate through the engine compressor is constant ) , thus pressurization is maintained by actuating the outflow valves . Open them up a little more to raise the cabin altitude , close them up a little more to descend the cabin altitude . Note that while maintaining a constant cabin altitude the outflow vales are partially open -- the incoming air is more than adequate to pressurize the airplane . When a main cabin door or something bigger is opened , the airplane will no longer maintain pressurization and everyone must don oxygen masks to avoid unconsciousness . With a planned cabin dump , masks will be donned before the cabin is evacuated , which will happen before any doors are opened . As noted by others , the pilot oxygen is fed from cylinders of pure oxygen and will last a long time . Passenger emergency oxygen is from chemical oxygen generators and lasts 12-15 minutes . I 'm not sure what type of oxygen masks the HALO jumpers would wear , but presumably they have portable oxygen for the jump not related to the airplane oxygen facilities . When all of the jumpers are away the doors are closed and once again the airplane is capable of pressurization . The outflow valves will be commanded closed and the cabin altitude will start descending . Once the cabin altitude is back down to normal levels , the crew will remove and stow their oxygen masks . There is no need to descend to accomplish this because the air provided by the engines is much higher pressure than even sea level air . Re-pressurization is accomplished by closing up the airplane and letting air accumulate in the cabin , thus raising the pressure . Once the target pressure is realized ( ~ 8000 ft ) , then the outflow valves partially open to stop descending the cabin and to maintain the target pressure .
As a general average , Chicago O'Hare ( KORD ) seems to do somewhere between 1.5 and 2 operations per minute ( so roughly one takeoff or landing every 30-40 seconds ) . I based this on data from the FAA 's <URL> report , and specifically looked at November 23 through November 30 of 2014 ( 17835 operations , over 8 days works out to 1.55 operations per minute - I poked around randomly and found days as high as 1.7 operations per minute ) . One of the limiting factors for number of operations at any airport is separation between aircraft , which is covered <URL> Incidentally we were discussing airport/tower activity levels <URL> earlier today , and Chicago O'Hare is the busiest airport in the United States overall - a title it recently stole back from ATL ( which was # 1 from 2004 to 2013 ) .
Yes . I assume that you do not have a good understanding of aerodynamics . I apologise if that is not the case . The way to think about these sort of questions is to ask " does the aircraft know that it 's moving in relation to the Earth " . The answer to this is " no " . The only thing that matters , and the only thing that the aircraft cares about is airflow ( wind ) over the wings . Ignore all sorts of little side effects and imagine an aircraft needs 70 kph of wind over the wings to generate lift and stay afloat , straight and level . Now , imagine the aircraft is flying along and you could somehow make the Earth disappear but leave behind gravity and the atmosphere . What would happen to the plane ? Nothing ! It still has 70 kph of wind over the wings and it keeps flying . Now put the Earth back . It still keeps flying . If the pilot reduces the power to 69 kph ( " thrust X " ) , the force generated by lift pushing the aircraft up is a little less than that generated by gravity pulling the aircraft down and the craft will start to descend . Eventually , it will land ( assuming that you remembered to put the Earth back ! ) . So two scenarios . First , one where the air is perfectly still and the thrust from the engine ( " thrust Y " ) is pushing the aircraft forward at 70 kph . Second , where the wind is blowing at 70 kph and thrust Y is such that the <URL> . Again , the aircraft does not know , or care , that it is stationary with respect to the Earth , just that it has 70 kph of wind over the wings . Modify the second scenario slightly so that the wind is now 69 kph . The aircraft moves forward at 1 kph . Again , the aircraft does not know , or care , that it is going fowards with respect to the Earth . The wind over the wings is still 70 kph ( speed of wind , 69 , plus speed of aircraft 1 ) . Reduce the thrust to X again and the aircraft will start to descend , and also become stationary . Eventually , it will land with no forward or backward speed . In reality , this would be almost impossible since the wind is never of a constant speed from a constant direction so little movements would always be taking place . I have seen a video , which I can no longer find , of a bi-plane which took off into a strong wind , flew backwards down the runway and landed on a spot before the one it took off from . <URL> . With just a little more wind , a vertical landing would have been possible .
This question has been asked and answered in a slightly different form at <URL> , and I refer you to that for basic info . Concerning the detail in your question : What difficulties would the pilots face for the remainder of the flight , including navigation and landing , with no one attending the flight engineer station in the cockpit ? It would be a nuisance for sure , but as long as there were no abnormal or emergency situations ( other than the FE 's personal situation ) , a nuisance would be all that it was . However , one could dream up scenarios that could get really sticky without the specialized knowledge that the FE would be expected to have that the pilots might not have ( or had forgotten ) . For example , would one of the pilots get up and sit at the FE station , leaving the other pilot the only person at the controls ? Or would the person get up , go to the FE station to read or adjust something , then sit back at the pilot 's seat ? Or do they not have to move at all ? The Captain can see the FE panel . Some of the gauges along the aft portion would be a little hard to read . For example , if he wanted to see what the exact pressure of the Potable water was rather than just that there was pressure , he might have to get up to get close enough . Or if a generator fault light came on , he 'd probably have to get up to see what the fault was . There would n't be any need to stay in the FE seat . If the flight were long , there would be some trips to the FE seat for fuel management . You can have as many as 9 fuel tanks ( 7 is the usual ) , and there are rules for the fuel burn schedule . The most important and most time consuming FE task during cruise was keeping track of what the fuel burn was , especially on the 747-100 because it did n't have the fuel capacity of the -200 . For example , a -100 going from JFK to Tel Aviv would sometimes not have the fuel to make it . Abeam Athens the FE would inform the Captain either than they had the fuel to continue or that they would need to divert to Athens for fuel . If the Captain wanted to talk to company for some reason , it was usually the FE that established contact via HF , and it was usually the FE that answered SELCALs . But the pilots sometimes did it . Flight attendants might show up and ask for a general cabin temperature change . Of course , it the FE had a severe medical problem , you would probably land at the nearest suitable airport just as you would for a passenger medical emergency .
No . The Boeing 747 was not designed for supersonic flight , though during testing , it was <URL> : Tom Cole , a spokesman at Boeing Commercial Airplane Co. , said original flight tests of 747s conducted in 1969 and 1970 took 747-100 models to speeds of Mach 0.99 . However , the aircraft is not built for sustained supersonic speeds : ... Boeing and the FAA said the 747 is not built for sustained flight at the speed of sound . Its engines are n't powerful enough nor is it designed to deal with a destabilizing shock wave that develops around the speed of sound . However , it is just possible that the airframe and wings can cope up with the supersonic flight , at least for a little while , though any sustained flight is not possible . There have been cases where the 747 has gone quite near the speed of sound and lived to tell the tale . <URL> went into a dive and went near supersonic speeds before the captain could recover it . As a result the horizontal stabilizers were ripped off and the wing bent permanently upwards . <URL> Damage to China Airlines Flight 006 empennage . By NTSB - China Airlines Boeing 747-SP Accident Report by NTSB , <URL> , Public Domain , <URL> In 1991 , a <URL> entered a steep right wing bank and approached sonic speed before recovery was completed . <URL> : ... the airplane was in a steep right-wing-down bank . The flight lost approximately 10,000 feet of altitude , and the airplane approached supersonic speeds ( 0.98 Mach ) before the recovery could be completed . Later , the <URL> . In these cases , parts of the aircraft certainly experienced local supersonic flow ; however , the airframe and wings are not designed for supersonic flow nor are the engines powerful enough . In one case , the aircraft suffered extensive damage ( though it was repaired and returned to service ) .
If the rudder is jammed in the neutral position ( as stated in your question ) , then landing is easy . You will just land using ordinary techniques . The plane may feel sloppy , and passengers sitting at the back will complain about feeling dizzy , but the aircraft is easily controllable and landing would not be any problem . Now things are different when the rudder is jammed to one side , for example in <URL> . The crew faced major controlling issues with a full right rudder , engine failure and very high sink rate . But even then , the pilots managed to land successfully .
It 's possible to land by touching the tail first , but this is undesirable as it puts a lot of stress on the tail , so it 's not trained for and there are no circumstances where you would do this deliberately . There are two common methods of landing a tail-dragger : a three-point landing ( where the tail and mainwheels touch together ) and a wheel landing ( where the mainwheels touch first ) . Aircraft design First , be aware that the aircraft is not level when it 's on the ground , like a tricycle aircraft is . The tail position is set so that the aircraft is quite nose-up on the ground - in fact , the angle is about the same as the stalling angle , and the reason for this will become apparent . If your nose is on the horizon , the tail is off the ground ( about five feet up in a Tiger Moth ) . Also , the prop is mounted higher up on a tail-dragger than on a tricycle , for exactly the reason you say . In the Tiger Moth , there is two or three feet of clearance between the ground and the prop if the nose is on the horizon . The clearance itself is n't the direct problem . If you do go nose-down on the ground , the airplane is not stable . If you 're moving forwards , the chief component of drag is acting through the mainwheels , so the engine thrust will tend to tip you further nose-forward ( especially if you run over a hump or rabbit hole ) . In addition , the CG of the aircraft is closer to the mainwheels , and eventually goes in front of the mainwheels . If this happens , a prop strike is inevitable . Three-point landings Three-point landings are the default because the aircraft is fully controllable as soon as it touches down . The approach to the runway is done at low or idle power , and set you up to be flying level at rooftop height above the runway . As you lose speed ( because you have idle power ) , you progressively pitch up to maintain height , which in turn causes you to lose more speed . This is called the flare Soon enough you are pitched up at the three-point attitude , and you can no longer maintain height - if you pitch up any further the wings will stall . At this point , you will drop down onto the ground and all three points will touch at once . Wheel landings Wheel landings are also used , as they offer more control in windy conditions , but they typically have a longer landing roll because you have more speed when you touch down . The approach is flown with some power on , but less than cruise power . It 's a gradual descent towards the runway , and there 's no flare , so you touch down in the level attitude . You then close the throttle to idle , and let the speed decay on the ground . As your speed decays and less lift is produced , you need to progressively push the stick forward to keep the tail from dropping , keeping the aircraft level as long as possible . Once the tail starts to drop , pull the stick back to drop the tail firmly onto the ground . When do tail-first landings happen ? To reiterate , you never land tail-first deliberately . It offers very little control ; the aircraft would stall at a higher speed ( and therefore the landing roll is harder and longer ) ; it puts undesirable load on the tail . They do sometimes happen by accident , if a student pilot has pitched up too aggressively when trying to do a three-point landing . Typically , too much nose-up input results in " ballooning " as the aircraft gains a little more height , but this results in the speed decreasing rapidly . If left uncorrected , the aircraft stalls , resulting in the tail touching down hard .
I know you asked specifically about runway versus helipad departures , but I thought I would lay out all the options available to the heli pilot , and you can see what all the choices are . There are three different areas on an airport that a helicopter can operate from : Non-movement area -- this is the area of the airport that is not controlled by the ground or tower controller . It often consists of aircraft parking areas or an area leased by a tenant . It is separated from a movement area by this the marking below . Helipads may be found in non-movement areas , such as the Coast Guard helipads at SFO and JFK . <URL> Movement area -- this is the area of the airport controlled by a ground controller , and separated from the runway area by this marking : <URL> . Helipads can be found in movement areas . Runway area -- this is the area controlled by the tower controller , and contains the runways used for landing and departing traffic . This picture from KHWD shows the three areas : <URL> Regardless of which area is used , almost heli departures from towered airports are coordinated directly with the tower controller because the aircraft enters the controllers airspace . At non-towered airports , helis operate out of the flow of fixed-wing traffic , and need to self-announce like any other aircraft . Additionally , helicopters can make three different kinds of departures : max performance take off -- which begins with a near-vertical segment , and then transitions to a horizontal . This is typically used from a confined area , and looks something like this : <URL> normal takeoff -- this begins in an in-ground effect hover with a horizontal segment until translation lift is assured , then transitions into a climb : <URL> running takeoff -- when there is insufficient power to begin with an in-ground effect hover , then the helicopter may begin its departure by sliding ( skids ) or rolling ( wheels ) along the ground , until translational lift can be obtained , then transitioning into a normal takeoff : <URL> The choice of departure area and departure type are for the most part independent , but they are obviously linked based on performance and obstacles . The departure area is an operational decision . When the helicopter is operating from a remote part of an airport , the pilot will often make a departure from a non-movement area ( helipad or ramp ) so she does n't have to taxi to the runway . If the helicopter is a passenger flight , such as air-taxi , it will most likely operate from the runway or a helipad in the movement area . The departure type is a performance decision , based on obstacles , weather , weight , and available power . Hot &amp; high departures might require a running take-off . Lightly loaded twin-engine copters in normal weather can safely make high-performance departures over obstacles in the desired direction of flight .
You assessment is flawed in that it does not take different air density in account . You state the following conditions : FL320 80 kt headwind 355 kt groundspeed 1000 nm distance and you are proposing descending to the following conditions : FL220 40 kt headwind At 32,000 ft , standard conditions are around 275 hPa , 225 K and density of 0.43 kg m $ ^ { -3 } $ . If your 80 kt wind is a pure headwind , a 355 kt groundspeed translates into a 435 kt TAS . If we correct this TAS for the ambient conditions we get an indicated airspeed of about 255 KIAS . This is the airspeed that really matters because it is what the airplane experiences as it interacts with the atmosphere . If we descend to FL220 , where standard conditions are 430 hPa , 244 K and 0.61 m $ ^ { -3 } $ , an airspeed of 255 KIAS yields a TAS of 363 kt TAS . If we have a headwind of 40 its , this yields a groundspeed of 323 kt . This is about 30 kt slower than you were flying at FL320 . A flight of 1000 nm will take about 15 minutes longer to complete . However , it is most likely possible that the airplane you were in is capable of flying faster than 255 KIAS at FL220 and in fact is probably capable of somewhere around 310 KIAS . Flying at 310 KIAS at FL220 will have true airspeed or 440 KTAS and with the 40 kt headwind a ground speed of 400 kt . This will get you to your destination faster , but at the expense of a much higher fuel burn . It is also likely that you could have been flying faster at FL320 ( not sure what max mach number would have been for you ) , but also at the expense of burning more fuel . If the airplane was n't dispatched for the additional fuel burn to go faster at FL220 , then after descending you would probably not have enough fuel to go fast enough to make up the difference in true airspeeds .
Yes they are . In fact this is required for a static takeoff . A static take-off means setting the brakes and running up the engines to takeoff power then when ready they release the brakes and start the takeoff roll . Besides that one of the test Airliners have to withstand is a worst-case V1 abort . This means starting a takeoff and at the last second slam the brakes , come to a stop and then taxi around for 5 minutes . This all needs to happen fully-loaded and with worn brakes that are still certified safe to use . Between hitting the brakes and coming to a stop the engines will not have time to spool down and stop providing takeoff power . Airliner mechanics also do engine run-up tests essentially powering up the engine and going through the power range and making sure it works as specified . This is usually 1 engine at a time . In these run-up tests loose debris ( including cars ) can be thrown around by the engine blast . So it 's important to keep the area clear .
Well " any " is an awfully broad statement , but the answer is " Theoretically yes . " -- You would just need floats that displace enough water to provide buoyancy for the aircraft at its maximum gross weight . For a 747 that would be impractical : We 're talking about a plane with a maximum takeoff weight in the neighborhood of 700,000-900 ,000 pounds depending on model and variant , and that would be an ENORMOUS set of pontoons . The form drag alone would be prohibitive , nevermind the structural work required to attach the pontoons in such a way that they wo n't be ripped off at takeoff speed in the water or blow off the plane in cruise flight . For smaller aircraft it 's certainly do-able : You can take a Piper Cherokee 180 , remove the landing gear , and install floats ( Piper kit # 756-746 ) to make it into a seaplane : <URL> <URL> Note the structural bracing for the floats , which attach both at the main landing gear point and the nose landing gear point to enable them to take the loads imposed by taxiing through water . There are also <URL> to prevent the aircraft from taking on water . Note however that just because something is possible does n't mean it 's a good idea , and the PA-28S is an example of that : The low-wing design of the Cherokee coupled with its single door on the right side makes the seaplane version an exercise in impracticality .
As shown on page 77 of <URL> FAA document , the various tests needed for an AMES ( air multi engine sea ) rating depend on the ratings you already hold and your area of operation . Depending on your area of operation , holding an AMEL ( air multi engine land ) rating can allow you to skip most or all of the required tasks for an AMES rating . In many cases , an AMEL rating is actually better for getting an AMES rating than a single engine sea ( ASES ) rating will be . So in short , you do not need an ASES rating first , but having one can make the process of getting an AMES rating easier in certain areas of operation .
Running the numbers from <URL> , there appear to be 36 active 747-200s out of 393 built ( according to Wikipedia ) . Of the 36 , 9 are passenger planes , 22 freight ( including 6 converted from passenger planes , marked * ) , 3 combi ( passenger and freight ) , and the two VC-25As ( " Air Force One " ) . The active aircraft are as follows , with tail numbers included so you can look for photos . Aerospace One : 1 freight ( SX-ASO ) , 1 combi ( SX-ASC ) AHS Air International : 1 freight ( AP-BIO ) Cargo Air Lines : 1 combi ( 4X-ICM ) Caspian Airlines : 1 freight ( EP-CQA ) Iran Air : 3 passenger ( EP-IAG , EP-IAH , EP-IAI ) , 1 combi ( EP-ICD ) Jet Star : 1 freight ( ER-BBS ) Kabo Air : 3 passenger ( 5N-DKB , 5N-JRM , 5N-MAD ) Kalitta Air : 2 passenger ( N715CK , N793CK ) , 4 freight ( N704CK , N746CK , N794CK , * N795CK * ) Kam Air : 1 freight ( 4L-TZS ) Midex Airlines : 3 freight ( A6-MDG , A6-MDH , A6-MDI ) Orient Thai Airlines : 1 passenger ( HS-UTC ) Rayyan Air ** : 2 freight ( AP-BKI , AP-BKS * ) Saha Airlines : 2 freight ( EP-SHB , EP-SHH ) Saudi Arabian Airlines : 1 freight ( HZ-AIU ) United States Air Force : 2 VC-25A ( 82-8000 , 92-9000 ) Uni-Top Airlines : 3 freight ( B-2448 , * B-2450 , * B-2462 ) Veteran Avia : 1 freight ( EK74799 * ) Vision Air International : 1 freight ( AP-BIV ) * Built as passenger and converted to freight . ** Not to be confused with Ryanair ! :-) There are also several stored aircraft , including the Rolls-Royce test plane you mention in the question . Thanks to <URL> for explaining that BSF denotes " <URL> " , a passenger plane <URL> .
Practically speaking , the ' heavy ' designator ( ' super ' for A380 and An225 ) is to help enforce separation requirements due to wake turbulence . In case of AF1 , it is not as if other aircraft are going to be allowed near it , so the designator is redundant . Regulation wise , FAA <URL> , specifically states that the ' heavy ' designator should not be used : When in radio communications with " Air Force One " or " Air Force Two , " do not add the heavy designator to the call sign . State only the call sign " Air Force One/Two " regardless of the type aircraft .
The answer to your question strongly depends on what kind of airplane you 're talking about ( in particular , what set of rules it was certificated under ) , as well as the phase of flight you are in ( takeoff vs. cruise vs. approach/landing ) and whether you are in a jet or a ( turbine or piston ) propeller aircraft . ( I 'm going to exclude single-engine airplanes from this discussion , as well . ) Cruise Flight In general , an engine failure in cruise flight is a manageable emergency unless you are in extremely high terrain in a light twin or some other corner case . The general procedure is to " drift down " in a slow-ish descent to your single-engine cruise altitude -- if you do n't already have a driftdown airspeed worked out , you can use Vyse as a substitute to get a slow driftdown -- and then divert to a nearby suitable airport to get the busted engine looked at , as you 'll be flying lower and less fuel-efficiently as a result . Takeoff Takeoff is the most troublesome time for an engine failure to happen , bar none : you are at high gross weight and do n't have altitude under you to turn into airspeed and landing options . What you want to do is get to the pattern altitude , fly a pattern , and land in a reasonably quick , but orderly fashion -- you do n't need to ultra-hurry things even if you have an engine on fire , but you do want to get back on the ground in a reasonable timeframe to get things looked at . Light Twins ( cabin class , commuter , pre-FAR 25 airliners ) These aircraft , unfortunately , struggle in single-engine situations on the best of days , as the certification requirements for single-engine performance in FAR 23 are minimal at best . The common adage you will hear about light twins , even , is " the second engine will carry you to the scene of the crash " -- it is possible for a light twin to be type certificated with nil or negative worst case single-engine climb performance in the case of an engine failure at or shortly after takeoff . Business Jets ( certificated under FAR 23 ) Corporate or business-type light jet aircraft ( Citations , Gulfstreams , LearJets , Beechjets , etal ) and their turboprop counterparts ( such as KingAirs ) , while often certificated under Part 23 , will generally have superior single-engine performance to light twins , although this is by no means guaranteed . You 'll likely get up into the pattern and be able to make a reasonably normal single-engine landing , barring any aggravating factors at least ; this is because even the smallest turbine engines are large enough that the aircraft will have some degree of excess thrust as a twin , leaving it with a thrust reserve in a single engine situation . These aircraft are also flown by pilots with type ratings and a CPL or ATPL , which means they will be more familiar with the performance of that specific aircraft and any aircraft-specific engine-out procedures needed to eke out maximum single-engine climb rates . Twin-Engine Airliners ( transport class twin turboprops and twin jets certified under FAR 25 ) The FAR 25 requirements for engine-out takeoff performance are much more stringent than FAR 23 , and practically guarantee that the aircraft is capable of positive climb in a V1 cut ( engine failure right after decision speed ) at maximum takeoff weight . In addition , V1 cuts are a classic airline training scenario that every airline flight crew on the planet runs in the sim on a regular basis ( I would n't be surprised if a V1 cut came up every few sim sessions or so , if not every sim session ) . In a practical sense , this means that unless the aircraft is overloaded or is suffering from something beyond a simple engine failure ( I 'll talk about that later ) , an airline flight crew will handle engine failure on takeoff in an airliner as a routine event . 3 and 4 engine airliners A single engine failure on a three or four engine aircraft is by no means critical , especially on three - and four-engined jet transports . This does n't mean that 747 crews do n't practice V1 cuts any longer , though ! Props vs Jets Engine failure in a jet , whether it be a T-37 or an A380 , is simple : you put appropriate rudder in , ID which engine died ( between your instruments and " dead foot , dead engine " , you should have enough data to go on ) , add power as needed on the working engine ( say , if you are doing an assumed/FLEX temp takeoff ) , and kill the dead engine , then run the rest of the checklist at a leisurely pace now that safe flight is more-or-less assured . Propeller aircraft are a bit more complicated though in that you need to <URL> the dead engine 's propeller to keep it from dragging the airplane down -- older constant-speed prop designs such as those on warbirds and piston-engine airliners had FEATHER buttons for this job , one per engine ; newer aircraft with constant-speed props have a gate on either the power or the condition levers that serves in place of the feathering button . You also have more levers to manipulate when adding power to the working engine ( s ) and kill
According to the <URL> ( 2 ) Private aircraft . The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP , pursuant to § 122.22 . Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22 ( a ) , from a foreign port or place , the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport . This only matters if you are inbound from an out of country origin . An LRA airport is Landing rights airport . A landing rights airport is any airport , other than an international airport or user fee airport , at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land .
FAR 91.3 states that any pilot in command may deviate from any regulation or rules to the extent needed to deal with the emergency . That includes entering restricted or prohibited airspace . In the example that you suggested , yes you could do so and land at the Groom Lake flight test facility at KXTA , provided you could reach their controllers or contact Nellis Approach Control declaring an emergency . I will say that if you do enter R-4808 N and land there , do n't expect them to roll out the welcome mat . You will be immediately met by USAF Military Police who will arrest you , most likely at gunpoint , and spend several hours , if not days , there or outside the compound being extensively questioned by Air Force Security personnel , the FBI and Homeland Security . Your aircraft will be impounded and inspected , possible indefinitely , and search warrants issued for your property . If they find out that you faked an emergency to enter that compound , you are in very serious trouble and face a variety of federal charges including trespass upon a classified installation and whatever else the DoJ can throw at you . In addition , you would need a very , very good reason to even be anywhere near Area 51 , as it is in the middle of a military reservation geographically the size of the nation of Switzerland in the middle of south central Nevada . There are no published routes over the airspace and all commercial and civilian traffic is kept far , far away . Details about the airfield are not published on government aeronautical charts or regional A/FDs . See the VFR sectionals and enroute charts below . <URL> <URL> While Area 51 is a pretty extreme example , people have had emergencies and landed in military or other restricted facilities . The usual response from the authorities is to detain and question you to determine what happened and inspect the aircraft to verify your story . If it 's a legitimate emergency , no harm is done and they will release you and the aircraft ; the NTSB will file and incident report and that 's it .
I 'd recommend reviewing Chart 5-23 from the PA-44 POH - Climb performance one engine operating - gear up for specific numbers based on aircraft weight and atmospherics . If you 're not seeing a positive rate of climb at your best rate of climb , single engine airspeed , then you 're not going to see it at the best angle of climb airspeed single engine either . By definition , Vyse is the best rate of climb that you 're going to see on a single engine ; any other airspeed , including Vxse , is going to give you a lower rate of climb , or greater rate of descent if a positive rate is not possible . And attempting to acquire and hold Vxse you 're getting close to the reverse side of the power curve , combined with ever decreasing rudder authority , it would be easy to have the aircraft drop below Vmc and depart from controlled flight .
end question
start question
What makes the perfect landing in a tail-dragger ?
They both have their uses . A wheel landing ( landing on the mains , keeping the tail in the air ) gives you better rudder authority on the ground , which is useful in a crosswind or during touch-and-gos . However , there is a point where as your airspeed slows , your rudder authority falls off quickly . This can be dangerous in a crosswind for obvious reasons . Most pilots avoid this condition by keeping the tail up for as long as they can , then quickly planting it on the ground when it begins to fall . The rudder is kept up in the airstream for as long as possible , and then you quickly transfer your turning control from the rudder to the tailwheel . A three-point landing is useful for getting on the ground and stopping quickly , because the additional wheel provides more friction . It also avoids the situation in the previous paragraph , because you land with the tailwheel down and have full turning authority the entire time . So in general , there is no preferred landing style in a tailwheel airplane . This may not be true for specific models of aircraft , however .
As you have intimated in the question , how hard you hit the ground is very dependent on a number of factors . When I did my training to jump using a classical tethered round chute we practiced landing from a platform of about 5 feet , so six is perhaps a hard landing . That 's , roughly , hitting the ground at 12mph . Folks like the Red Devils typically use an parafoil chute . Basically a self inflating wing . These can be steered and pitched upward to bring the trooper to a stall or even go up if they have enough forward velocity . So yes , you will often see them stop in mid-air and step down . This means this type of parachute has NO equivalent jump height . In fact if flown incorrectly you can crash into the ground at serious speeds . <URL> Regular " military style " parachutes provide no control over lift and only minor control over direction . With these your descent rate is totally dependent on size , weight and air quality . <URL> Interestingly , with a regular chute , what makes landings " harder " is not so much the effective height but the amount of horizontal velocity . You are trained to drop and roll when you hit the ground to absorb the impact . <URL> This works great if you have any horizontal velocity to help you initiate the roll . If however you are coming straight down it 's not so easy . . and your knees end up in your chest ... as I found out the one and only time I jumped out of an aging Cessna . Too much horizontal velocity and that roll gets rather violent .
What should a pilot do ? Follow the checklist ? Is there any checklist ? There are many such checklists in the intertubes and whole books have been written on the subject Here 's the start of one for <URL> For comparison , here 's one for a <URL> Are commercial jets buoyant ? Yes , initially , if substantially in once piece . We know that because several intrepid pilots have tested this idea ( obligatory hat-tip to <URL> ) . It makes sense that the fuel tanks in the wings , especially once emptied of fuel , are buoyant . The wings are obviously capable of supporting the fuselage . The fuselage is a pressurised tube and should be buoyant too , until the passengers and crew start making large holes in it .
Some <URL> databases are <URL> and require a USB port . Since navigational databases are updated frequently and require a simple way to make an update , USB ( or memory card slots ) are generally used to allow for rapid and easy updates without having to remove any panels . In some cases the port may be in the avionics bay however that is usually easily accessed as well . It should be noted that a recent change in regulation now allows pilots to update nav data , <URL> . Was it really intended for charging devices like phones ? That seems naively insecure . Generally these ports are not for charging but the basic design of a USB port more or less always allows you to charge from it because of the nature of the port . The security on the ports is more about cockpit security . In most cases the security lies in making it difficult to get into the cockpit in the first place . It is often assumed now that if you are in the cockpit you should be there . There is of course many questions this opens up some of which have been answered here or would be good to ask about . As iPads become more common in the cockpit for navigation and the such USB ports are <URL> for charging but this seems to be more common in GA planes currently .
I would like to point out a few things in your source . First , look at the bottom right picture . It shows an altitude of about 30 feet , guessing that an average airport fence is about 9 feet high ( forgive me if I 'm a little bit off , I usually use SI units ) . Then , if you look more closely , you see that the plane is not actually right above the fence at that point , but quite a bit past it , which means that it was higher when it passed the fence . So , no big problem there . Then the pictures of the bottom of the airplane . You notice how the airplane looks very distorted , like it has a massive nose . This is because smartphone cameras generally have wide-angle lenses - an extreme example would be a fish-eye lens . They severely distort the intuitive concept of distances ( closer looks VERY close , further away looks VERY far away ) - if you try to inspect it a little bit more carefully , suddenly you realize the plane is about 4-5 times the height of the quite large tree in the center of the picture . Again , no big problem . Then there 's the picture of the plane going over the road . This is shot with a narrow angle lens ( probably a good zoom lens or even a telephoto lens ) . This has the opposite effect of a wide-angle lens : things that are in reality separated a lot look really close to each other - my favorite example being <URL> picture . So , while it looks like it 's directly at the top of the hill , in reality it 's probably much further away . Then , finally : even if all of the above were false , it still would n't be a big problem . A stabilized approach is a <URL> . A lower glide angle makes some things quite a bit easier : your engines are spooled up higher which makes them more reactive , and your touchdown will be smoother than Mick Jagger 's moves . Downsides : more fuel consumption , more noise and usually more turbulent winds , which was specifically not the case according to the story ( indeed , they went low to avoid those winds ) .
Not a real example , but this comes from the <URL> , including some nice drawings around page 13-20 : The emergency extension system lowers the landing gear if the main power system fails . There are numerous ways in which this is done depending on the size and complexity of the aircraft . Some aircraft have an emergency release handle in the flight deck that is connected through a mechanical linkage to the gear uplocks . When the handle is operated , it releases the uplocks and allows the gear to free-fall to the extended position under the force created by gravity acting upon the gear . Other aircraft use a non-mechanical back-up , such as pneumatic power , to unlatch the gear . The popular small aircraft retraction system ... uses a free-fall valve for emergency gear extension . Activated from the flight deck , when the free-fall valve is opened , hydraulic fluid is allowed to flow from the gear-up side of the actuators to the gear-down side of the actuators , independent of the power pack . Pressure holding the gear up is relieved , and the gear extends due to its weight . Air moving past the gear aids in the extension and helps push the gear into the down-and-locked position . Large and high performance aircraft are equipped with redundant hydraulic systems . This makes emergency extension less common since a different source of hydraulic power can be selected if the gear does not function normally . In some small aircraft , the design configuration makes emergency extension of the gear by gravity and air loads alone impossible or impractical . Force of some kind must therefore be applied . Manual extension systems , wherein the pilot mechanically cranks the gear into position , are common . Consult the aircraft maintenance manual for all emergency landing gear extension system descriptions of operation , performance standards , and emergency extension tests as required .
The answer is quite simple : 1 . When touching down the nose is in a pulled up attitude , therefore the tail is farther down then normal . As soon as the airplane touches down ( on all wheels ) , the tail is higher , thus the hook is higher . You can see how the aircraft is in a nose up attitude , but gear and hook are on the same level . If the aircraft was sitting on all its tires , the hook would not actually touch the ground . ( This might not even be the case on all aircraft , though ! ) 2 . This is the much more important reason : The hook is hydraulically pushed onto the deck ( see Rhino Driver 's answer for more detail ) but as soon as the hook hooks to the cable , and pulls on it , that hydraulic pressure is overcome and the vectors of the forces go from where the hook is attached to the plane to where the wire comes out of the ground ( and vice versa ) . As you can see here , the hook is actually almost parallel to the deck . 3 . Last but not least : There is no space for two wires on one hook . Let 's say the airplane would catch the first rope , and for some reason ( it should definitely not happen , but let 's just pretend it does ) the hook is still on the ground where it would hook up to the second wire when crossing it , then it will maybe drag it along for a short time , but it ca n't really hook on as the hook is made to fit exactly one wire . This can be seen on this picture :
Increasing horizontal stabilizer area increases pitch stability and the permissible range for centre of gravity at the cost of some aerodynamic efficiency . Stability in pitch means that the aircraft tends to maintain constant angle of attack ( which roughly corresponds to maintaining constant speed with pitch ) . An aircraft is stable in pitch if the aft surface flies at lower angle of attack than the front surface ( this applies to both conventional tails and canards ) . Making the horizontal stabilizer larger does the following : The absolute change in lift force on the horizontal stabilizer when angle of attack changes is larger , so the aircraft returns to the trimmed angle of attack faster ( increased stability ) . As centre of gravity moves aft , the difference in angle of attack between the surfaces decreases to keep the plane balanced , reducing pitch stability . If the horizontal stabilizer is larger , the angle of attack changes more slowly for the same change in lift , so the centre of gravity may be permitted further aft before the aircraft becomes not stable enough . As centre of gravity moves forward , the difference of angle of attack between the surfaces increases until angle of attack of the horizontal stabilizer exceeds its stall angle of attack and control is lost . If the horizontal stabilizer is larger , it can provide more ( downward ! ) lift before it stalls , so the centre of gravity can be permitted further forward before loosing control authority .
The two aircraft in question were actually only one . Apparently it was a glitch in the FR24 system . It was an Embraer ERJ-190AR , registration number N949UW on flight AA1678 from ATL to LGA . <URL> <URL> <URL> This also pretty much validates sweber 's assertion that the numbers are internal FR24 codes , because the mode-S ID is AD306E .
it is not obvious if it could alter the wing shape for this to be a problem It may not be obvious but it is so . Plain old snow will just blow off as soon as the plane picks up speed , but if the wing was above freezing when the snow first fell on it , the snow will probably conceal a layer of rough ice , which will not blow away . Anything adhering to the wing surface will change the lift force . According to <URL> even a thin coating of ice can disrupt an airfoil 's boundary layer airflow , causing a premature aerodynamic stall and dramatically increased functional drag .
They both have their uses . A wheel landing ( landing on the mains , keeping the tail in the air ) gives you better rudder authority on the ground , which is useful in a crosswind or during touch-and-gos . However , there is a point where as your airspeed slows , your rudder authority falls off quickly . This can be dangerous in a crosswind for obvious reasons . Most pilots avoid this condition by keeping the tail up for as long as they can , then quickly planting it on the ground when it begins to fall . The rudder is kept up in the airstream for as long as possible , and then you quickly transfer your turning control from the rudder to the tailwheel . A three-point landing is useful for getting on the ground and stopping quickly , because the additional wheel provides more friction . It also avoids the situation in the previous paragraph , because you land with the tailwheel down and have full turning authority the entire time . So in general , there is no preferred landing style in a tailwheel airplane . This may not be true for specific models of aircraft , however .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
Consider where the center of gravity is in relation to the main wheels . If you are in a tail dragger , you definitely would prefer to de-crab ( never heard that term before now ) before touching down . If you touched down while crabbed , you 'd have a moment created by the center of gravity around the main gear to ground loop the airplane . In a tricycle gear airplane , that same moment would work to straighten the airplane since the center of gravity is forward of the main gear . In a crosswind from the right , for example , when you apply left rudder to align the aircraft with the runway , the right wing will want to come up ( you just gave it a little extra speed ) , so you will want to use right aileron to at least counter that as you certainly do n't want the crosswind component to get ' under ' the wing . Both 747 operators I flew for recommended touching down in the crab . Personally I did n't like that and used a combination approach in a heavy crosswind , take out some of the crab but not all . Also , while they did caution against lowering the upwind wing , I always lowered the wing a little . I once figured out how much the wing would have to be lowered before ground contact , and it was quite substantial , more than I would ever think of using . Also , as I remember , It would not be the wingtip or an outboard engine pod that would make first contact , but rather the outboard corner of the outboard wing flap when set to flaps 30 . Finally , when your touch down speed is 140 knots , for example , you 'll have to crab much less for a given crosswind component than if your touchdown speed is 70 knots . Cosine or tangent of the angle , I forget which .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Viewing the full resolution image from the link might help you notice things to use . Steering the yoke right and left controls the aircraft 's roll . Pulling/pushing the control column controls the aircraft 's pitch ( nose up/down ) . Radio altimeter is used in landing , it offers precise measurement of height above ground . Landing gear lever , down is wheels down . Airspeed indicator shows how fast the plane is going . 12 o'clock position , not going anywhere . Moves clockwise with speed increase . Flaps lever : fully down for take-off/landing from short field . Power levers : push away from you , full power . Pull all the way back , full reverse , which is useful in stopping the plane especially on ice . Do n't use the brakes in your novel if the runway is icy . Trim wheel : pilot will use it to fine tune the approach . And after take-off to make pulling the control column easier . You can <URL> ( head-mounted GoPro ) .
The only formal classification of door types that I could find is in <URL> , which specifies the emergency exit requirements for transport category aircraft . It defines Type I-IV , Type A-C , ventral and tailcone exits . The doors you usually enter and leave the aircraft through are probably type I or A : Type I . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high , with corner radii not greater than eight inches . Type A . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high , with corner radii not greater than seven inches . These definitions are quite generic , but Transport Canada has a handy list of <URL> that gives specific details ( often including the type ) for many common aircraft . It says this for the 767 main doors : B-767-200 / 300ER ( Doors 1L/R FWD , 2L/R AFT ) Note : Some models equipped with 2 additional type 1 exits L/R just forward of wing . H - 1.88 m ( 6 ft 2 in ) W - 1.07 m ( 3 ft 6 in ) ; Type A Equivalent force required to move door control handle from closed/locked position to open position ( Normal and Emergency ) : 12 kg ( 26 lbs ) . Approximate force required to open a door ( lift upward ) from unlocked to open : 18 kg ( 40lbs ) . " Counterbalance " opening design . Inward/upward opening doors . Manually operated except some models equipped with electrical ( normal operation ) opening/closing option ( FWD Entry Door ) . Unique arming/disarming mechanism ( lever , indicators ) . Release button must be depressed and held to move arming lever to " Slide Armed " mode . Yellow plastic " Emergency Use Only " ( bendable ) flag moves upward in front of Door Control Handle when slide is in armed mode . Double channel slides . Upward rotating Door Control Handle . " Uplatch " mechanism holds door in open position . Button must be depressed while door is lowered initial few inches , to release . You can see from that list that the details can vary a lot , even if the basic designs are very similar . Coming up with pros and cons for every variant would be tough ( especially for me , since I know nothing about it ! ) , but obviously some aircraft are larger than others and that will limit how much space is available for the door mechanism . There are also operational considerations : aircraft that frequently operate out of smaller airports without <URL> may need to have <URL> , which are usually built into the doors .
The rule I was always taught is to cross any ' step ' - up or down - at an angle with the elevator full back : It minimizes the chance of a prop strike , which is much more expensive than a wingtip strike When going ' up ' , you avoid having both wheels up against the step at the same time , which usually means you need a burst of power to get over it , which could lead to sudden acceleration and sharp braking When going ' down ' you avoid the aircraft dropping down suddenly , with the same risks of strikes or an increase in speed Lifting the elevator reduces the chance of it striking There may be some differences for specific aircraft types , but I 've always followed that advice and never had a problem . I 've also never seen an aircraft get close to a wingtip strike doing this , but I suppose it could happen if the step is large enough . Although in that case you might want to just find another taxi route .
Well , sort of . The Kennedy Space Center , where the shuttle operations were conducted , <URL> . but then , the show was run by NASA , not FAA . The shuttle operations were coordinated through the Aerospace Control Officer ( ACO ) at the Air Force 45 th Space Wing 's Eastern Range ( it used a military TACAN ) . FAA was informed of the shuttle landing and nothing else . NASA simply cleared the airspace for a 30 mile radius around the intended landing site to prevent collisions . In the trajectory of the shuttle landing , FAA issued a NOTAM called ' Space Shuttle Landing Operations Advisory ' to warn the users that 25 miles to either side of the nominal reentry trajectory is potentially vulnerable to debris , but the airspace is not closed , like this example : FDC 9/1945 ( A0856/09 ) - ... SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS ADVISORY ... EFFECTIVE 0911271848 UTC UNTIL 0911271923 UTC SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS 25 NM EITHER SIDE OF THE LINE BETWEEN 2743S/17214W 0411N/16214W 2925N/13455W 3440N/11828W 3457N/11745W FROM SURFACE TO UNLIMITED . WIE UNTIL UFN . CREATED : 25 NOV 21:11 2009 For these actions , Special Use Airspace was activated . The ACO coordinates these actions with the FAA 's ARTCC ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) in Miami , Florida
There is no term ( that I am aware of ) referring to only the portion of the takeoff while the tail is off the ground . In general , the attitude where just the two main wheels are touching the ground is called " two-point . " Likewise , with the tail wheel also on the ground , it is called " three-point . " Specifically , a two-point landing is sometimes called a " wheel landing " . <URL>
Basically , you put wheels on the skid and tow them . In some cases , towing wheels are attached to the skids ( which usually have sleeves in them for mounting ) , and a tow bar is attached to the front ( one or two sets of wheels may be attached to the skids ) , which is then towed by a vehicle . <URL> Image from <URL> There are also specialised tow carts available for helicopters , which basically grip the skids ( usually in a couple of places on either side ) and lift them up , after which the helicopter can be moved by the operator by controlling the cart . <URL> Image from <URL>
The T-tail positions the horizontal stabilizer out of the turbulent " prop wash " . This reduces the strength and weight that would be required of the structure if it had to endure the aerodynamic stress behind the two propellers ( which is terrific ) . This simple shape has everything to do with parts and assembly simplicity and low cost for the homebuilder . Drag increases exponentially with speed ; so for slow aircraft , draggy shaped components are much less a problem .
end question
start question
Do modern airplane controls provide force feedback of external forces on the control surfaces ?
On some . The Fokker 100 is one , where the aeroforces on the elevator are directly fed back to the pilot . There is a hydraulic actuator helping him , but contrary to the usual solution it is a reversible system where the hydraulics merely amplifies the direct force that the pilot exerts . The F100 has manual reversion for elevators and ailerons , and it can still be flown reasonable comfortably without hydraulics . The 737 also has manual reversion , but the flight controls are quite heavy without hydraulics - it is about the largest high-subsonic aircraft that can still be hand-flown . Larger planes just have triple redundant hydraulic controls , some with q-feel which artificially replicates the higher air stiffness felt at higher airspeeds . No romantic gusty creaking for those aircraft in a museum .
There 's an interesting article on the hazards at <URL> . The avoidance tactic mentioned in that article is to avoid rapid descents at low forward airspeed - this would seem sensible as that 's where the rotors will be exposed to their own downwash . And the preferred reaction also described there is to use the cyclic to fly forwards , to move into less disturbed air . ( I have heard that another cause of the condition is flying into narrow spaces among tall buildings , but unfortunately I have n't been able to find a reference . )
Reversible is when there is a direct linkage from controls to control surfaces . For example the cable linkages in a light aircraft up to an MD-80 . Irreversible is when there is a hydraulic power control unit in the way , it can be mechanical or fly-by-wire . And such controls would sometimes need an artificial feel system to relay how much force is being applied . It is found in airplanes that can not be steered by just muscles . A good way to picture it , is what happens if you move an aileron by hand , would the yoke turn as a result or no . Superman might be needed for a 747 's rudder , but still , the rudder pedals wo n't budge . More information <URL> and <URL> . <URL> Source : <URL> Photo shows an unpowered rudder that was swung by the wind , in the cockpit the rudder pedals would show the neutral position , hence irreversible .
According to the Washington Post , Air Force One never refueled in mid-air with the president on board . If it needs to refuel , it usually does so at one of the U.S. military bases across the world . The retrofitted Boeing 747 that usually serves as the presidential jet can indeed refuel in flight -- but it has never done so with the president on board , military officials say . It has enough range to fly from Washington to Iraq without needing more fuel . On longer trips to Asia , it typically stops at U.S. military bases in Alaska or Germany . -- <URL>
When sitting at the exit you need to be the first one out of the plane . Basically when the emergency is declared and the captain says , Evacuate , Evacuate , you go to your door , check the outside for fires . Then you open the door en be the first one out of the door . You then put as much distant between you and the plane as fast as possible . Or you assist on the outside of the plane by making sure people create enough distance between themselves and the plane . What could with hold them from sitting there is the responsibility to get the door open . Or the fact that they enter a shock and will be unable to move during an emergency .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
Because there is no need for more engines . Though one can argue that losing one engine in a twin results in loss of half the thrust , the question is how often does that happen . Engine reliability has improved significantly through the years and engine failures are quite rare today . I 'm not sure how ground clearance is an advantage for quads . For quad engined aircraft using today 's high bypass turbofans , the inboard engines would have to be mounted higher for suffecient ground clearance - this is actually a disadvantage as it results in a longer landing gear . In aircraft , more engines means more ( cost and ) maintenance and in a way , more things to fail , as there are more subsystems . In effect , there is no great reliability advantage of quads over twins . One main reason for having more than two engines , ETOPS certification , is no longer relevant . In fact most of the longest routes in the world are flown by the 777 , a twin . The best way is to look at the market - there are no quad engined aircraft under development and most of the aircraft in order are twins ( A380 and 747-8s are struggling to get orders ) . This clearly shows that the customers prefer twin engines over quads .
I was wondering how long that it would take for this question to come up . It is the old " pitch - vs - power " airspeed control technique debate that rages throughout the aviation world . There are strong proponents of both techniques ( and they seem to view it almost as a religious debate in that the other side can never be right , no matter what ) , and both sides have good reasons for it ! Instead of saying that one is better than the other , let 's just say that they are both techniques for managing the potential energy of the airplane ( the airspeed that can be traded for altitude and vice-versa ) . In fact , this is how I like to think about it ( and do n't pick a side ) : If you change the pitch of the aircraft without changing power , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Pitch up and you lower the airspeed . Pitch down and you raise the airspeed . If you change the power setting of the aircraft without changing the pitch , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Add power and you raise the airspeed . Reduce power and you lower the airspeed . You can change both at the same time and get various results . You can end up with the same airspeed that you had before . You can end up with a lot more airspeed . You can end up with a lot less airspeed . Most often you need to change both at the same time in order to properly manage your airspeed . So basically it comes down to what you want to accomplish . If you need to change the airspeed you have two ways to do it , but used individually each comes with a side-effect . In some situations this may be okay or even desirable , but you need to be aware of what your actions are going to accomplish . Let 's look at a specific example : Sometimes , especially on an instrument approach , you want to maintain your current airspeed while changing your vertical speed . Let 's say that you are a little high on the glideslope . If you simply pitch down to recapture the glideslope , you will gain airspeed but will recapture it quickly . If you simply reduce the power to recapture the glideslope , you will lose airspeed but it will take longer than using pitch . If you want to maintain your airspeed while recapturing the glideslope ( typical on an instrument approach ) then you would pitch down and reduce power at the same time , and when you recapture the glideslope you will pitch back up to maintain it and add power to maintain your current airspeed .
Practically speaking , the ' heavy ' designator ( ' super ' for A380 and An225 ) is to help enforce separation requirements due to wake turbulence . In case of AF1 , it is not as if other aircraft are going to be allowed near it , so the designator is redundant . Regulation wise , FAA <URL> , specifically states that the ' heavy ' designator should not be used : When in radio communications with " Air Force One " or " Air Force Two , " do not add the heavy designator to the call sign . State only the call sign " Air Force One/Two " regardless of the type aircraft .
Other folks have already addressed why we want to lock the flight controls when we leave the aircraft - " to prevent damage from gusts of wind " , and " to keep the plane from doing interesting things in a strong breeze " . To the question of the " best " position to lock controls in , for light aircraft the general consensus is that the rudder and ailerons should be locked in the neutral position - In this position any wind blowing over the wings will cause them to lift uniformly , putting tension on the tiedown ropes holding the aircraft to the ground . ( If the ailerons are locked at an angle one wing will generate more lift than the other , allowing one of the tiedown ropes to go slack . ) Elevators are a subject of a little more nuance and debate : It 's generally considered best to lock the elevator in the " nose down " position ( because any gusts of wind over the tail will push the nose down , rather than encouraging the nose to lift , this also means that those gusts will apply tension to a tie-down rope located at the tail rather than causing it to go slack ) . On some aircraft locking the elevator in the nose-down ( or nose-up ) position opens up spaces that birds may try to nest in ( <URL> ) - some pilots prefer to lock the elevator of these aircraft in the neutral position to discourage avian visitors . Generally it 's better to lock the controls than leave them unlocked to bang around in the wind , so on some light aircraft not equipped with control locks pilots use the seatbelt to hold the controls in place . This often results in a " sub-optimal " control position ( elevator fully nose-up , ailerons full-deflection left or right ) , but because the wind speed at which control surfaces may bang against their stops is usually lower than the speed at which the aerodynamically unfavorable control positions will substantially affect the aircraft this is a " lesser of two evils " approach .
In a constant speed prop , the prop control lever basically changes the speed of the prop ( it is not always running at the same speed as you indicate in your question , but rather once the speed is changed by the prop control lever , the governor keeps it at that speed ) . If power ( or airspeed ) is changed , the blade angle will automatically change in order to keep the prop turning at the same speed ( within the limits that it is designed for ) . Since adding power would normally increase the speed of the prop , the governor automatically changes the blade angle in order to keep it at the same speed . The same is true when power is reduced or airspeed is changed . Thrust is changed by engine power because , even though the prop is turning at the same speed , the angle of attack of the prop has been changed , which changes the amount of thrust . For more general information about how a constant speed prop works , see this question and answers : <URL>
Before the main cabin door is closed , the ramp personnel will deliver a cargo sheet that lists number of checked bags number of gate checked bags number of heavy checked bags pounds of commercial cargo pounds of company cargo With numbers broken down by cargo bin where accurate . The flight attendant will deliver a sheet with passenger count in zones . The FMS or EICAS screens can tell you how much fuel is on board . From there , some airline have ACARS programs that you plug those numbers into and it will give you weight information ( to turn #bags and #people into pounds ) . Other have worksheets to calculate the weights . In the EMB-145 we then had to spin a special wheel with the weight information to get the balance info . This can vary by operator . Some operators will have the W&amp;B calculated by dispatch and all of the numbers I mention above are put into the computer system by various people and the dispatcher will deliver the W&amp;B and takeoff reference data to the pilots via ACARS . What if there is a problem ? Problems can be overweight overall , overweight in the cabin , overweight in the bag compartments or out of balance . For overweight , remove people or bags as necessary . If fuel has not arrived and you can do without some , call dispatch to revise the numbers and load less fuel . If you are out of balance , you move people or bags around . This was rarely an issue and if it does happen you just ask a passenger from zone X to sit in zone Y for takeoff .
What about the engine ? Even if engine power was doubled , the coaxial rotor wo n't produce double the lift . Airfoils do n't like stacking neighbors . <URL> ( <URL> ) This double wing above ( biplane ) produced about 120 % lift , not 200 % . Using the biplane above to illustrate a point , between the wings the pressure will neither be high enough for the upper wing , nor low enough for the lower wing . In a <URL> , two wings are placed one above the other . Each provides part of the lift , although they are not able to produce twice as much lift as a single wing of similar size and shape because the upper and the lower are working on nearly the same portion of the atmosphere and thus interfere with each other 's behavior . For the same engine output , we 're looking at ~ 10 % increase in lift . Because the coaxial rotor does not require an anti-torque device such as a tail rotor , Fenestron , or Notar , a coaxial rotor helicopter requires about 10 % less power than a single rotor/tail rotor helicopter . For the same rotor diameter and power the coax will lift approximately 11 % more weight . This equates to 30 % greater useful load , which means more payload or fuel . The coax helicopter can hover at a 6000 ft higher altitude , or at a higher temperature ( <URL> ) .
The air conditioning system on board airliners is an open system : it scoops up air from the atmosphere , compresses it , expels it through the cabin vents , and then outflows it through discharge valves . In modern airliners there is a certain amount of re-circulation : the expelled air was of such good quality that it seemed a waste to just dump it in the atmosphere . <URL> <URL> In the A320 family of airliners : Outside air is compressed in the engine compressors , part of it is tapped of as bleed air : already compressed and warmed , it is used for refreshing the cabin air ( marked green ) . Temperature and pressure regulators then provide automatic mixture control for the amount of outflow : the outflow valve is regulated , decreasing the opening results in increase of cabin pressure and decrease of flow . The recirculation fans regulate how much air is re-used , after being filtered through HEPA filters which remove pathogens and other nasty stuff . The whole cabin air volume is refreshed every 2 - 3 minutes , as also referenced in <URL> : with such a frequent refresh rate , it would be pretty safe to assume that there will always be roughly the percentage of oxygen in the cabin as there is in the outside atmosphere ( see below for the actual percentage ! ) . People have climbed to the <URL> without the help of oxygen masks , and that summit is about at cruising altitude of an airliner . AFAIK , the aircon system does not have oxygen sensors , but it does have temperature and pressure sensors which are of more immediate concern . Low concentration toxic gases are much more dangerous than a drop in oxygen concentration . In fact , the human body makes use of this : when holding your breath , the urge of breathing fresh air again after a while comes from the <URL> , not from any decrease in oxygen . So CO$ _ 2 $ detectors on board of aircraft would make sense , as would detectors for the very lethal carbon monoxide . These are available , even in the form of a key hanger for GA pilots ( not including any links due to them being adverts ) . There have been reports of dizziness and fainting on board of airliners , and investigations into these . <URL> did not reveal a particularly high carbon dioxide content : Discussion With additional measurement reports pending , I found in-flight cabin air quality measurements of oxygen to be relatively stable , ranging from 11.2 % to 12.5 % . Typical outdoor CO2 levels are between 350-400 ppm ( 0.035 % - 0.04 % ) or up to 500 ppm by some sources . Carbon dioxide levels measured in-flight in the aircraft cabin ranged between 0.04 % or 400 ppm and 0.1 % or 1000 ppm to date in our studies and were measured at close to 0.5 % or 5,000 ppm in earlier studies . As indicated at CO2 HEALTH EFFECTS , occupants are unlikely to be affected or to notice CO2 levels under 2 % or 20,000 ppm - a far higher number than in-flight aircraft cabin carbon dioxide levels . Notice that the oxygen contents on board is a bit over half of that of the outside air - the cause of dizzy passengers ? Reports of dizziness do keep appearing , and nothing beats direct detection of noxious gases by a sensor . Problem is , there are so many of them . Oxygen , carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide sensors would be good candidates for inclusion into the aircon systems . On your second part of the question Is there any situation ( emergency or not ) in which some other gas could pressurize the cabin and lower the O2 percentage inside it ? Yes , in air conditioning systems that use bleed air there definitely is , an engine malfunction can for instance inject gases from burning oil into the cabin air , a problem that was reported a few times for the BAE 146 . <URL> The British Aerospace BAe 146 was the aircraft type most commonly involved in fumes/smoke events when taking into account flying activity . The Airbus A380 , Boeing 767 , Embraer EMB-120 and E-190 were among other aircraft types that also had a higher than average rate of fumes/smoke occurrences over the period . The most common source of fumes/smoke was aircraft systems issues , primarily relating to failure or malfunction of electrical and auxiliary power unit ( APU ) systems . Equipment and furnishings also featured highly as a source of fumes and smoke . Within this category , air conditioning and galley equipment were the most common sources of fumes/smoke . External sources of fumes/smoke and cargo/baggage related events were relatively rare .
Just to roll around on " unimproved " airfields ( grass/dirt/gravel strips ) , the biggest thing planes need is simply a decent set of tires : <URL> This MiG-29UN trainer shows off the fairly beefy main tires put on these planes specifically to allow them to more easily roll over minor imperfections in the runway/taxiway surface , including dirt/gravel/grass strips ( though here it 's landing on a traditional asphalt/concrete surface ) . Compare these to the relatively small gear wheels and low-aspect rubber on the similarly-sized F-16 : <URL> Now , your question oversimplifies things , because " foreign object debris " or FOD is in fact a primary danger of unpaved airstrips for jets , and this danger has to be accounted for in the design . Here 's the main reason the MiG-29 can take off from dirt : <URL> <URL> MiG-29s and similarly-minded Su-27s , and their variants , have special doors to close off the lower intakes normally used in flight , instead drawing in air through the gill-like ports over the top of the wing strakes . This prevents the engine from ingesting dust , rocks , birds , rodents , etc on takeoff and landing . This engine protection system , while effective , adds mechanical complexity and weight which U.S. designers and military brass have generally thought unnecessary given that requirements rarely include the ability to operate from unimproved strips . Most U.S. fighters in the jet age , therefore , have had to operate from airbases with some form of paved runway surface ( and the U.S. military actually has higher standards for runway surface quality than most international airports ) . The U.S. arsenal does , however , have several aircraft that are specifically designed to operate from rudimentary airstrips at forward bases . These designs avoid FOD damage primarily by keeping the engines up as high as the design will allow . For instance , the A-10 's two engines are on pods angled up on the fuselage between the wings and tail for a variety of reasons including FOD avoidance : <URL> Most of the other designs in the Western arsenal that can do this are high-wing designs with wing-mounted engines , which keep them out of the dust produced by takeoff and landing in a similar fashion . Here are a C-130 and C-17 landing at an Afghanistan forward base : <URL> <URL> The Harrier is a notable exception to this general strategy by Western designers of just keeping the engines out of any debris cloud . While it 's probably not done routinely , a Harrier can set down just about anywhere , and as this picture shows , it ingests no small amount of dust in the process : <URL>
Control means to be able to vary the forces which act on an airplane , both longitudinally and vertically . Ideally , any variation will create an immediate feedback , so the pilot can " feel " how much more action is needed for the desired change . If , however , the variation of forces builds up slowly , the dynamic answer of the airplane will make the closing of the feedback loop harder to achieve . The pilot might either overcontrol and get into an oscillation , or he/she will be too careful , and the desired change never happens or happens too slowly . Regular control surfaces are small , so they can move quickly , and their forces act on a long lever arm , so the control effect is large . Also , control surfaces change lift proportional to their deflection , so predicting the consequence of an input is easy and the feedback can be felt immediately . Even if the primary control surfaces are ineffective , several ways of control still exist . I will list them in order of reaction speed : The elevator can be replaced by : Pitch trim , Wing flaps , Thrust variation , if the engines sit above or below the longitudinal axis of inertia , Weight shifting , if fuel can be moved between tanks or payload can be shifted longitudinally . The last two options work very slowly , and while they can be used to limit sink speed , it will be extremely hard to avoid overcontrol and oscillations . Situations which need precise pitch control like landings are impossible to master for an unprepared human pilot when only such crude means of control remain . The rudder can be replaced by : Rudder trim , Ailerons plus pitch control in case of agile aircraft with low aspect ratio , Asymmetric spoiler ( if available ) , Asymmentric thrust . Again , the last option is rather slow and can not be used for precise directional control . The ailerons can be replaced by : Rudder plus dihedral effect , Asymmetric spoiler ( if available ) , Sideways fuel pumping . Here again the last option is too crude and too slow for maneuvering . If the aircraft is otherwise undamaged , and the flight dynamics are well known , a specially programmed autopilot could fly an aircraft even when using the last listed options , because it can much better predict than a human pilot how much effect its actions will have . Humans rely on a feedback loop for control , and this is not working anymore if the reaction time of the system is far above its eigenfrequencies of motion . Note the " if " : How likely will it be that only all control surface actuators have failed , but the aircraft is intact otherwise ? In most cases , the control failure is a consequence of another failure which will alter the dynamic response such that an autopilot would be unprepared . There are experimental autopilots which can adapt , but they are only used by the military so far . With the loss of most of its tail section , JAL123 would have been hard to control even if the equivalent of full rudder authority would have been given to the pilots . With thrust only , fighting the inevitable dutch roll motion by hand is impossible .
If the controlling software allows it then yes . There 's at least one drone available where autonomous flight <URL> ; the <URL> says that the drone will continue its " mission " even if you lose the signal to it , although the overall length of the flight path is limited to 5km and the drone will not fly close to airports . Other drones stop and hover or land if they lose the connection to the controller . Whether doing this is actually a good idea ( or legal in whichever jurisdiction you want to operate in ) or not is a whole other question .
The same way it is done in small airplanes and older airlines -- toe brakes . The rudder pedals translate forward and back to actuate the rudder and they pivot around the lateral axis to actuate the brake system . Each pedal independently controls only the brakes on its side of the airplane ( e.g both pilots left toe brake actuates the brakes on the left main gear ) . Planes will often have an emergency or parking brake , which will be a lever somewhere that actuates the brake system . This system , outside of emergencies is only used when the plane is not moving and you want it to remain that way . Larger airplanes with also sometimes have autobrakes which provide a triggered automatic application of a certain level of braking . This kind of system is used both to provide automatic maximum braking for a rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and some lesser automatic braking upon landing rollout . To summarize , for taxi and ground movement the brake input is coming from the toe brakes . When the aircraft is stopped , brake input will be transferred from the toe brakes to the parking brake . When the plane lands , if it is so equipped and enabled , the autobrakes will begin brake application and the pilot will take over with the toe brakes and continue to use toe brakes for the taxi in .
Most non-normal ops in an airliner follow the same concepts for light aircraft - make sure the aeroplane is under control and following the desired flight path before you do anything - which includes engaging an autopilot . So for the Boeing aircraft I fly , ensure you 've got a positive rate of climb , speed should be V2 - V2 +15 , ensure the aeroplane is in trim ( pitch first , then rudder ) and your following any prescribed engine failure routing . In terms of autopilot use , part of our company SOP is to engage the autopilot at 1000ft AAL , this is not to relieve the pilot of the responsibility of maintaining control - it wo n't control the rudder - more to reduce the immediate workload and allow more effective management of the non-normal situation . Once the autopilot is engaged the aeroplane can be accelerated , flaps retracted and any non-normal checklist completed .
787 On the 787 there is no activate/deactivate button for it . Yaw damping and turn coordination are always active as long as the flight controls law is in primary mode . In secondary or direct modes , yaw damping becomes degraded . Primary being the fly-by-wire 's fully functional mode . Source : 787 FCOM . MD-11 On an older generation plane , for example the MD-11 , there are buttons for the yaw damper , 4 in fact for the 4 channels , they are rarely used ( always on ) unless there 's a fault and after troubleshooting you want to take a channel out . <URL> ( <URL> ) Four yaw damper buttons on the MD-11 's overhead panel . 737 Next Generation On a 737 , after a flight is completed and the <URL> knobs are moved to the off position , the yaw damper switch automatically goes to the off position . I suspect the rationale back then ( carried over from earlier 737 variants ) was you ca n't have the switch on the " on position " and the fault light illuminated when there was no fault . ( The yaw damper needs a functioning <URL> , which needs input from the IRS . ) <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Yaw damper and IRS controls on the 737 overhead panel . Autopilot and yaw damper In most ( if not all ) planes that come with a yaw damper ( YD ) , engaging the autopilot ( A/P ) is not needed to enable the YD , i.e. , you can hand fly and still have the YD on , whether there 's a switch for it ( 737 ) or not ( 787 ) . In the MD-11 if all four channels failed , the A/P can only be used in cruise . So as you can see , you need the YD for the A/P in the MD-11 , not the other way around . Source : MD-11 QRH .
end question
start question
What could cause uneven fuel levels in a Cessna 172 ?
Consulting your handy POH ( or one for a 172N that I Googled up ) you 'll find the fuel system diagram looks like the one below ( click to enlarge - most high-wing gravity-fed fuel systems are similar ) . <URL> So there are a number of ways you could wind up with uneven fuel burn with this plumbing . The most common ones are : ( Uncoordinated ) Turns If you 're flying lots of left-hand traffic patterns ( or you 're making lots of left turns for some other reason ) that means your left wing is frequently lower , and gravity favors pulling fuel from the right tank . ( Note that it does n't have to be a turn - prolonged slips can also cause uneven fuel flow . ) If I had to take a guess , I 'd say this is probably your culprit . Were you making a lot of left turns ? Pressure The fuel vent tube on the left tank faces into the wind - this pressurizes the left tank first ( and the right tank through the breather tube connecting the two ) - it 's a little extra encouragement for fuel to leave the tanks and flow into the engine . In some aircraft this leads to the left tank draining faster ( because it 's at a slightly higher air pressure than the right tank ) - this can become particularly pronounced if the breather tube between the two tanks is blocked . <URL> Various blockages A partial blockage in either of the tank fuel lines , the fuel selector valve , the vent , or the breather line between the two tanks could theoretically cause uneven fuel burn ( the vent/breather blockages being a special case of " pressure " from ( 2 ) above ) . Pilot Error It 's possible to mis-position the fuel selector in such a way that you 're getting adequate fuel flow to run the engine , but one tank is more restricted than the other . This is unlikely if the aircraft is properly maintained ( the fuel selector should have nice , identifiable detents that it clicks into , letting you know it 's in position ) . For more detail on causes for uneven fuel burn ( and tips for troubleshooting it with your mechanic ) check out <URL> . Is uneven fuel burn dangerous ? Maybe . It 's certainly something you should be aware of ( part of why you want your fuel gauges to be at least somewhat accurate is so you can tell if your fuel burn is uneven in flight and correct it by switching to the fuller tank briefly ) . Uneven fuel burn can be an annoyance ( a 5 gallon difference is about 30lbs - potentially enough to notice on the controls ) , but it can also be a safety hazard : If allowed to go uncorrected you could theoretically get yourself into a situation where the right fuel tank is empty , and in a steep enough left turn you may not have enough pressure from gravity to get fuel from the left tank into the engine . In an extreme case your right tank may be empty and your left tank may be so low as to unport the fuel pickup tube in a turn , potentially leading to attitude-induced fuel starvation ( " The noisy part of the plane gets quiet until you level the wings " ) .
Yes . I assume that you do not have a good understanding of aerodynamics . I apologise if that is not the case . The way to think about these sort of questions is to ask " does the aircraft know that it 's moving in relation to the Earth " . The answer to this is " no " . The only thing that matters , and the only thing that the aircraft cares about is airflow ( wind ) over the wings . Ignore all sorts of little side effects and imagine an aircraft needs 70 kph of wind over the wings to generate lift and stay afloat , straight and level . Now , imagine the aircraft is flying along and you could somehow make the Earth disappear but leave behind gravity and the atmosphere . What would happen to the plane ? Nothing ! It still has 70 kph of wind over the wings and it keeps flying . Now put the Earth back . It still keeps flying . If the pilot reduces the power to 69 kph ( " thrust X " ) , the force generated by lift pushing the aircraft up is a little less than that generated by gravity pulling the aircraft down and the craft will start to descend . Eventually , it will land ( assuming that you remembered to put the Earth back ! ) . So two scenarios . First , one where the air is perfectly still and the thrust from the engine ( " thrust Y " ) is pushing the aircraft forward at 70 kph . Second , where the wind is blowing at 70 kph and thrust Y is such that the <URL> . Again , the aircraft does not know , or care , that it is stationary with respect to the Earth , just that it has 70 kph of wind over the wings . Modify the second scenario slightly so that the wind is now 69 kph . The aircraft moves forward at 1 kph . Again , the aircraft does not know , or care , that it is going fowards with respect to the Earth . The wind over the wings is still 70 kph ( speed of wind , 69 , plus speed of aircraft 1 ) . Reduce the thrust to X again and the aircraft will start to descend , and also become stationary . Eventually , it will land with no forward or backward speed . In reality , this would be almost impossible since the wind is never of a constant speed from a constant direction so little movements would always be taking place . I have seen a video , which I can no longer find , of a bi-plane which took off into a strong wind , flew backwards down the runway and landed on a spot before the one it took off from . <URL> . With just a little more wind , a vertical landing would have been possible .
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
Apparently , yes , it has -- see <URL> . As the article reports , the issues appeared to be related to the turbocharger , but I 'm not sure how far ( if at all ) accident reports or details go beyond that .
There are a whole bunch of possible reasons . The first thing to note is that , from inside the cabin it can be very difficult to tell the difference between speeding up/slowing down , pitching up/down , and the rise and fall from turbulence ( particularly when in a climb ) . And one I was n't aware of but as pointed out by Sami , the air conditioning pressure varying because of a malfunction in the engine bleed or pack valve . So why could it be happening ? Turbulence causing the aircraft to gentle rise/fall , which , in a climb , is fairly akin to small acceleration/decelerations - both to our inner ear , and in terms of what 's physically happening to the aircraft The air conditioning pressure rising and falling more than usual rather than maintaining a constant pressure Slight pitch up/down manoeuvres , possibly from a relatively inexperienced pilot flying the aircraft The auto-throttle throwing a hissy fit or , if climbing at 250 knots under 10,000 ft , oscillating slightly in order to stay at/below the 250 knot speed limit The pilots adjusting thrust manually , possibly for the same reason as above A gusting head/tailwind . Particularly noticeable near the ground and when in a climb , and can cause a feeling of acceleration/deceleration . A malfunction in one of the engines causing the power to vary slightly . It 's possible this was only noticeable at takeoff/climb thrust levels , and disappeared when throttling back Typically you 'd expect it to be due to either turbulence or a gusting wind , but there are several systems which could develop a small , fairly benign fault and have this symptom . Edit : As noted by user Jamiec , Storm Katie ( a reasonably strong storm ) was over the UK at the time , which would certainly back up turbulence/gusting winds being the most likely culprit
For the Boeing 727 that you see there , that whole procedure is impossible with a pickup truck . Given that the 727 is operating at its Operating Empty Weight , 102,900 lb <URL> for the 727-200 advanced , and the force on the nose gear is somewhere around 10 % at rest , that would put it way over the limit for that particular truck model ( Nissan Frontier at 4,690 to 5,816 lbs <URL> ) . That would be even less pretty for the truck since the force at touchdown on the nosegear should be higher . Also , according to <URL> , the maximum speed for that truck is about 95 mph . Assuming that <URL> is correct , the landing speed of a 727 is 130 to 150 knots ( 150 to 170 mph ) . This is way greater than the speed of any pickup truck . I had to make a response like this some time ago as well to the exact same video someone had a question about . However , you could <URL> if you had the right equipment . Nitpick on the video : if the plane 's nose gear did n't deploy all the way , then truck or no truck , it should have collapsed on impact .
The <URL> have a <URL> than the <URL> . The majority of engine noise , especially the " ripping , howling , typical jet noise " comes from the engine core . The higher the bypass ratio , the less air passing through the core for any given thrust and the more cold air meets the core exhaust at the back reducing the <URL> Jet engines with no bypass ratio and deep intakes produce a <URL>
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
The worst case depends on the kind of bullet . If a tracer bullet hits an empty fuel tank which contains a mixture of air and fuel vapor , an explosion will follow . A regular bullet will just punch a hole into the tank , but will not be hot enough to start combustion . On today 's airliners and combat aircraft the fuel tanks will be filled with an inert gas , so there is not enough oxidizer present to support combustion . Even the tracer bullet will have no effect . Now the tank will have a hole , however , and if it is below the fuel level , some of it will leak out and could be ignited by a hot object . This will be the main source of fire , but will not lead to an explosion . Since WWII , most military aircraft used <URL> , to much the same effect . This was a double-skinned tank with a rubber middle layer which would swell when wetted with fuel and close the hole .
If your definition of drone is any remote control aircraft freely available to consumers , then the answer is yes , but highly unlikely . <URL> Its very unlikely , but it is possible . First , I 'd like to point out that Radio Controlled Aircraft ( RC Aircraft ) have been available to consumers since at least the late 1950s . Hobbists build RC aircraft all the time , and when I was a kid I built my own RC aircraft that was much bigger than most commercially available " drones " . To focus on drones alone misses a big slice of the pie . RC aircraft are sometimes built as 1/4 scale models of the original aircraft and can weigh 100lbs or more , so imagine a remote control aircraft that is 25 % the size of the real aircraft . So , the potential has always been there for at least the last half a century for a remote control aircraft to have enough mass to potentially cause a serious collision with a real aircraft . Imagine if a couple of 18lbs geese took down the Flight 1549 , what would a 100 + lbs quarter scale RC Aircraft do . Personally , I 've never been too concerned with this because I 've flown both RC aircraft and real aircraft . It would be extremely hard for a drone or RC aircraft pilot to target an aircraft and hit it in its most vulnerable locations such as cockpit or engines . So , yes , its possible , but I would not lose any sleep over it .
You might be surprised to learn that most refueling tankers hold a relatively small percentage of their total fuselage volume in fuel . The reason why is simple ; a plane stuffed to the gills with fuel would be so grossly overloaded it would n't make it off the runway . Tankers , therefore , can double as medium transports with little modification , as they have a sizable upper deck which is more or less empty space when serving as a tanker , but which can ferry troops , light vehicles or other materiel from Stateside bases to various theaters ( a dedicated heavy transport like the C-5 or C-17 would be used for transporting large units or for specialized troop transport like airbornes ) . Here 's the layout of the KC-135 Stratotanker : To my knowledge , all of this fuel is available both to power the plane and to refuel other aircraft , however the plane would likely draw primarily from the wing tanks for flight , as this is the " standard " configuration for the 707 the KC-135 is built on . Transport of the fuel from these tanks to the refueling systems would be accomplished with an integrated pump and pipe system that could move fuel from anywhere to anywhere . The bulk of the fuel load , as you can see , is contained in four " body tanks " totaling over 144,000 pounds of fuel . For comparison , the F-15E strike fighter can carry a maximum , with CFTs and 3 droptanks , of just 35,550 pounds . These tanks are lined with plastic bladders , which contain the fuel ( so the entire fuselage does n't have to be leak-proof which is much more difficult and expensive to ensure ) and also allows the bladder to collapse as the fuel inside it is depleted , reducing the volume of air in direct contact with the fuel , thus reducing the vapor hazard . AFAIK the wing tanks do not have these bladders , but they 're much smaller spaces overall and more easily accessed . Separating the fuel into multiple tanks has several advantages : The tanker is still serviceable with one or more of the tanks unable to carry fuel ( leak in the bladder , pump failure , etc ) . Sloshing of the fuel in the tanks has less effect on the weight distribution of the aircraft . Imagine trying to take off with a full Olympic swimming pool in your cargo hold ; any pitch up or down will cause several tons of weight to move " downslope " , unbalancing the aircraft ( probably fatally ) . Fuel can be pumped between these tanks to fine-tune or " trim " the aircraft 's weight distribution and handling characteristics , a process known as " tank trimming " which is more aerodynamically efficient than elevator trimming .
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
Emergency descent ( like during a decompression event where you need to get from cruise to 10k ft ASAP to make sure the people in the back survive ) should n't make a nice curve . It only wastes time you do n't really have . Normal operation means the pilot activates the autopilot during cruise which will fly the programmed course set by the pilot . It will stay follow that course ( or put itself in a holding pattern on the final fix ) until it runs out of fuel or the pilot intervenes when it is cleared for descent . This happened with <URL> ; both pilots were incapacitated shortly after ascent and the plane put itself in a hold and crashed when it ran out of fuel after more than an hour . A plane where there is nothing controlling the altitude ( when control is lost due to loss of hydraulics for example ) will follow a <URL> . That is a series of dives and climbs as the elevators gain and lose bite on the air with speed .
This is based on knowledge and a little experience . I have flown a Wessex to a hover and they are big , heavy , powerful beasts . If your example our good friend Simon refers to me , then I must also state that I only have about 130 hours so limited hours is more accurate :) It is said that if you can fly one helicopter , then you can fly another . Indeed , I learned on the R22 and it 's a " fact " ( insofar as if enough people repeat something enough times , it becomes a " fact " ) that if you can fly the R22 , then you can fly anything because it demands careful handling and has very small power margins . I have never heard a really experienced pilot refute that . If we assume that you have enough fuel and that there is no complex fuel system which requires switching of pumps to keep the engines fed , then yes , you could land anything with one notable exception . Nearly all helicopters have a couple , either manual or automatic , between the demand for power ( how much pitch you are asking for ) and the engine power output . Raise the collective and the throttle is automatically opened and vice-versa . This is certainly true about transport category aircraft . On something like early Hilliers , I would need to learn pretty fast that as I increase pitch , I must roll on throttle otherwise , I will stall when I try to climb or raise the lever to come into the hover . This is practised during PPL but I must admit , I 've never used manual throttle control since I got my license . Another area of concern would be over controlling but that 's easy to deal with . I am now thrust into the pilots seat of a type I do n't know and I am not licensed for . I am going to land on the nearest safe spot . I 'm not going to do anything fancy whatsoever so , if I need a descent , I will lower the lever gently and use the cyclic to maintain my speed . Then I 'll climb a little by gently raising the cyclic until I start to climb . All helicopters fly nicely at about 60 kts so I will pitch for that speed . The only thing I need to look at to ensure the limits are n't busted is airspeed . Any helicopter pilot would get the feel of this in very little time as would any fixed wing pilot . It 's just a question of how heavy the controls are and how much they physically need to move but that 's quickly explored by starting gently and using just enough to do what you need to do . Let 's assume that the subject craft does have automatic throttle control . I will also assume that we are in VMC otherwise , we are all going to die . There are only two other areas of concern that I can think of and that 's the type of the landing gear ( skids vs wheels and how many ) and the height of your seat above the ground . One major difference between rotaries and fixed wing is that there is no stall speed and all helicopters can land with the same forward speed and rate of descent . I can , if I want to , bring the craft to a hover and stop to have a good think about what comes next . To come into a hover is also easy . You can do it by the numbers but the practical way is to keep your speed over the ground so that the site picture is apparently a fast walking speed and keep the landing spot in the centre of the window . if the landing spot moves up , decrease your rate of descent and vice-versa . Do this , and you will arrive close to the spot at a sensible speed and with a low rate of descent . Vortex ring state wo n't be a concern for me . I wo n't know at which speed I will lose translational lift but it will be somewhere between 10 and 15 kt , so I 'll be waiting for that little shudder to start and the nose to swing a little , ready to bring in power and pedal . I believe that most , perhaps all , wheeled transport helicopters have wheel brakes , but I will have no clue how use these . So , I am going to land zero-zero and ensure that I am directly into wind and on a level surface . The next think is how will I know when I 've landed ? When I first landed a B206 , it was on my conversion course so I already knew how to land smoothly . All I had to do to deal with the extra height I was sitting above the ground was " feel " the aircraft down . It can be surprisingly difficult to know when a helicopter is fully on the ground and not flying it all the way down is one way to get into trouble . I would deal with this by feeling for the first contact and then smoothly , but not too quickly , lowering the lever . This does two things . It ensures a firm contact and removes my biggest landing worry in an unfamiliar type which is dynamic rollover . It wo n't be pretty and I might even get a blade strike somewhere but with power now off , we 'll all walk away . So in summary , I would n't need any assistance but , if I can figure out where the transmit button is and how to tune the radio , I will try to get some anyway .
Other people have complained about this too . Boeing should rename the type to the " Whineliner " . The noise is caused by a hydraulic pump which is situated directly below the cabin . It mostly runs on takeoff and landing , but it can also run automatically at other times . Dogs have been reported to need psychiatric treatment after being transported on a 787 .
Fuel bias is as you described it . As the engine ages , it burns more fuel than a brand new one . The fuel flow ( and drag ) corrections are entered into the FMS . This would allow the FMS calculated quantity not to disagree with the tanks totalizer . The figures are based off previous flights and engine tests . Maintenance personnel can refine the database by entering correction factors for drag and fuel flow . ( 737 manual ) also There are also " biases " to consider , depending on the make and model of aircraft . For example with Gulfstream aircraft , our flight planning experts typically add a 16 % bias for flights of less than three hours . However , biases depend on the age of the aircraft , how the operator flies it , planned flight level , and speed . So , it 's best practice for operators to compare actual fuel burns with flight plan burns to confirm accuracy . ( <URL> ) Boeing does not call it bias when I checked the 787/737 manuals , but ' bias ' is likely a flight planning software term . <URL> ( <URL> ) From a flight planner for a flight sim . <URL> ( <URL> ) Random real flight plan . Note : company software differs . <URL> Boeing 787 FMS interface where the drag and fuel flow corrections are entered .
Not in the US . The C162 's <URL> says : The Model 162 Skycatcher is not equipped or certified for IFR flight That means that under <URL> it may not be operated IFR . But , <URL> allows an exception for aircraft not certified for IFR to be operated under IFR in VMC only : A. IFR Training in Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) . Instrument flight training may be conducted during VMC in any aircraft that meets the equipment requirements of part 91 , § § 91.109 , 91.205 , and , for an airplane operated in controlled airspace under the IFR system , § § 91.411 and 91.413 . An aircraft may be operated on an IFR flight plan under IFR in VMC , provided the PIC is properly certificated to operate the aircraft under IFR . However , if the aircraft is not approved for IFR operations under its type certificate , or if the appropriate instruments and equipment are not installed or are not operative , operations in Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) are prohibited . The PIC of such an aircraft must cancel the IFR flight plan in use and avoid flight into IMC . An autopilot is n't required for IFR flight in the US ( see <URL> ) and <URL> you linked . I did n't check the full equipment list to see which required instruments are missing from the C162 , but even with full IFR equipment if it is n't certified for IFR then it ca n't be operated in IMC per the regulations above .
Short Answer Batteries would need to be somewhere around 16.7 MJ/kg to give the same range and performance as liquid fuels , this is about 18.5 times the capacity of the best lithium-ion batteries . Price-wise it will cost about 30-35 % to charge your airplane as opposed to fill it with liquid fuels at today 's prices . Long Answer This is a good question which is hard to give an exact answer to , so this will be more of a Fermi Approximation . To answer this you need to look at the energy contained in the fuel and the efficiency of the engine used . Looking at the energy of the fuel I will use <URL> , which is the energy stored in a material per unit of mass . Specific Energy is related to <URL> , which is the amount of energy contained per unit of volume . Often the terms are interchanged . The specific energy of avgas and jet fuel is about 43 MJ/kg . The best lithium-ion batteries top out at about 0.9 MJ/kg ( the batteries in a Tesla are about 0.7 MJ/kg ) , so they have a fraction of the storage of liquid fuels . The best battery technology in theoretical development ( Lithium-air ) has a theoretical maximum of 41 MJ/kg , more realistically they 'll get 1/4 to 1/3 of that from the technology , which is still vast . Internal combustion engines are about 35 % efficient , the other 65 % is wasted whereas electric engines are much closer to 90 % efficient or more . There are other factors to consider : Weight : fuel tanks , piping and pumps take weight , and electric motors are much lighter than internal combustion engines . The batteries would need a storage structure but an electric system would probably be lighter overall Battery inconsistencies : avgas supplies a consistent amount of energy in every single drop whereas batteries will sag as they discharge ( this is regulated to give consistent power to the motor , however at some point levels will drop below what is regulatable , so not all the power in the batteries will be usable ) . Also , over time they lose capacity and become less efficient . Both these factors mean that you 'd want to build in extra battery capacity to compensate So I 'm going to assume these two will compensate for each other , the weight savings from going electric will be offset by the need for extra capacity to ensure consistency . Assuming that all other factors are equal ( propeller efficiency , etc ) we can extrapolate the actual efficiency of the systems to get an approximate figure of an internal combustion on avgas : 35 % of 43 MJ/kg = 15 MJ/kg of actual benefit . We can use that figure to determine what specific energy we would need from batteries to get the same amount by dividing by electric motor efficiency : 15 MJ/kg / 0.9 we get 16.7 MJ/kg . So batteries would need to store 16.7 MJ/kg to give us the same energy as liquid fuels , but how does it compare to existing battery tech ? Right now commercially available battery technology is about 0.9 MJ/kg , so it would need 18.56 times more storage capacity ( 16.7 / 0.9 = 18.56 ) to supply the same amount of energy . As for energy costs this is going to vary a lot depending on fuel and electricity prices over time and place ; we can use some of the same figures above to work the numbers . I 'll assume an airplane that holds 40 US Gallons ( 150 liters ) as the math is easy and it 's about the capacity of a Cessna 172 . I 'm going to do separate calculations for the US and UK to see how they compare : In the US : Avgas is about \ $ 5.20 per US gallon at the moment , that 's \ $ 208 to fill up your airplane of 40 gals . Avgas has about 34.2 MJ/liter of energy , multiply that by 150 liters for 5130 MJ of energy . Internal combustion engines are 35 % efficient and electric engines 90 % , so we can calculate that an electric airplane would need 5130 * 0.35 / 0.9 = 1995 MJ of electrical power to fill up . 1995 MJ is about 554 kWh , at somewhere around \ $ 0.135 per kWh it would cost you \ $ 75 to charge an airplane with the same amount of energy . In the UK : Avgas in the UK is about \ $ 2.23 per liter ( \ $ 8.47 per US Gallon ( ouch ! ) ) , so it would cost \ $ 334.50 to fill up an airplane . 554 kWh of electricity costs about \ $ 0.17 per kWh , so it would cost \ $ 94 to charge the airplane EDIT : I did consider the efficiency gain from weight loss as fuel is burned , i.e. a <URL> , I left it out of the answer as it is n't significant compared to the other factors in what is already an approximation . It has to do with the <URL> , which is the percentage of the aircraft weight that is fuel , which on a light piston single is comparatively low . A Cessna 172 carries about 40 gallons of fuel , 38 of which is usable , weighing about 228 pounds as opposed to a typical take-off weight of 2200-2300 lbs . In other words its fuel fraction is about 10 % , even on a long range flight using every bit of fuel you will only lose 10 % of your weight , and I would approximate that you 'd get around 5 % benefit from it . This was not enough of a factor compared to the other considerations , and it would probably be offset by regenerative desce
Atmospheric conditions do not cause aircraft to break up in flight . Improper aircraft handling in response to bad weather can cause an aircraft to be overstressed and then breakup . So can improper handling due to disorientation .
end question
start question
How do you catch a runaway blimp ?
Historically , a runaway airship can not be caught or entered . Eventually it will come down - they all did so far . Only in one case did a Zeppelin fragment of a ship which broke up in a storm make a soft landing so the crew aboard could survive . In all other cases both ship and crew perished or were never seen again . While the Zeppelins had vertical shafts which allowed the crew to climb to the top of the hull , a blimp can only be entered below the hull . Trying to lower someone James-Bond-style from above will fail , because the big hull will shield the entry points of the gondola very effectively . <URL> Defensive gunner position on a Zeppelin . Note the square hatch at the bottom which leads down to the bottom of the ship . Also , shooting it down will be an exercise in futility . All it will do is to increase the rate of helium loss , so the flight will be some hours shorter . Helium is inert and will not burn , and those small holes will be tiny relative to the big surface of the hull . At 15,000 ft it will be hard to try to catch one of the lines most likely hanging from the blimp with a helicopter . Remember that the blimp floats , so the helicopter has to hover at this altitude . Very few are able to do so . Towing will only be possible with another blimp or a helicopter ; an airplane will not be able to fly fast enough with a blimp in tow . The next trick depends on the color of the hull : If it is dark , covering it with something highly reflective will cool it and reduce the blimp 's buoyancy . I have , however , no idea how to get a big blanket on that thing . The same will happen when night falls , but first the air will cool and the blimp , which will cool down more slowly , will go up . Later in the night and early in the morning it will sink again . The wet parts of rain clouds will mostly be below 15,000 ft ( water content is proportional to air density , after all ) , so a shower which drenches the hull and makes it heavier is highly unlikely . There is no obvious way how this thing will come down fast . Except , that is , it climbs further and the hull bursts . This will change the dynamics of this escape in a dramatic way . The chase planes will help ATC to route traffic around the blimp , and all that can be done is to watch it . With luck the landing will be soft enough that it is not a complete write-off .
Everything is available for a price , and you do n't need Google 's help : You can get the <URL> right from Boeing if you contact them . You can also Google around and get PDFs of Boeing maintenance documents but these would be from unofficial/unauthorized sources ( at least one Boeing maintenance manual made it onto Wikileaks ) . As Boeing likely holds a copyright on their maintenance documents obtaining them from an unofficial/unauthorized source would be an infringement on that copyright . More importantly you ca n't guarantee documents from an unofficial source are correct , current , and unmodified . If you intend to use the document for any aviation purposes ( like performing maintenance on an aircraft ) you would want to be absolutely certain they are the latest approved revision from Boeing .
Do n't chase the ball . Heck if you 're VFR/VMC , you should barely be glancing at the ball or any of your instruments and should have eyes outside . Remember flying a little uncoordinated alone is not going to force a spin . Stall + Yaw = Spin So how do we mitigate this during gusty approaches ? We fly a little bit faster . I like to use 1/2 the gust factor and add that to my final approach speed . I 'm not saying accept being uncoordinated , but when it 's gusty out you do n't chase airspeed , so why chase the ball ?
OK . There are some answers with some good information here but here is my stab at it . I 'm not going to go into whether this is smart or not , just possible . And yes you can land a seaplane safely in zero-zero conditions , if the conditions are right ( haha ) . Anyone that tells you different is n't using their imagination and/or is n't a seaplane pilot . Once again , not saying it 's smart , just possible . 1 ) " I 've heard that some seaplane bases have IFR approaches , but what about landing at sea ? " If you have an ILS , you need to mount the antenna somewhere and " at sea " is not very conducive to that . This leaves GPS ( RNAV ) approaches that could be theoretically built " at sea " . However , until RNP and LPV ( or however they are renaming these concepts this week ) becomes common place in small aircraft you can only get down to minimums of about 500 ' anyways . If you are dropped off that " high " , you are pretty much legal " at sea " to be down there buzzing around VFR anyways even in US airspace ( assuming you can see , which if you could n't then landing from an IFR approach would n't be prudent anyways , even on a runway ) . So it kind of defeats the point of doing an approach in the first place . 2 ) " If you flew out into international airspace , could you land at sea and then taxi back into US waters without being subject to US regulations ? " Short answer , technically yes , but ... . . You could land outside of ADIZ , which is typically 12 miles out and be subject to no FARs , I guess , technically . However there is almost always a controlling agency for that airspace even if the country possibly care ' as much ' once outside their sovereign airspace . They will start caring a lot if and when you conflict with their traffic . Back to the point , there are many practical problems with landing this far out though and it certainly is n't worth the hassle just to avoid some regulations ( that do n't really limit you ) . First problem , there are very few seaplanes still flying today that can land 12 miles out to sea on anything but the absolute best ( read that as calmest ) day . And , oh yes I forgot to mention , in the US at least they are n't going to wait until you get right up to twelve miles with no transponder code to intercept you ( I 'm assuming you are n't talking to anyone because you do n't want to be subject to US regs ) . So you actually need to land about 35 miles out ( do n't ask me where that number is from , I honestly do n't remember , but 35 miles was the magic number and deadline for having a transponder code to cross the ADIZ ) . Moving on , If you do find that rare day when the water is just beautifully calm and do land , you run into problem number 2 . Second problem , now you have to taxi 35 miles to shore . Talk to any seaplane pilot you can find , and they will be happy to tell you how painful this would be . Even if it were just twelve miles this would be a great reason to just talk to someone and go the flying route . This leads us to problem 3 , which is even if you are n't subject to aviation regulations you are now a boat . So you must clear immigration and customs as a boat . The coast guard whom you may run into will not be a problem . In my experience they are generally great people and very practical because they have important jobs to do . They 'll call a hammer a hammer , and will be happy to treat you like a boat . Your problem will be with customs and border patrol . They will be so confused by this beast you have brought them , that they MAY not want to clear you just for fear of getting reprimanded . Be ready for lengthy explanations and calls to supervisors leading to most likely hours of waiting . Not saying CBP does n't do an excellent job , but you just brought some poor junior officer a seaplane which is the equivalent to taking a puffer fish to a butcher in Alabama and telling him , " Do n't worry , I 'm pretty sure my wife wo n't sue you if you kill me by cutting that thing wrong . " From personal experience , if you try to set something like this up in advance with CBP you have about a five percent chance of it actually slightly helping somewhat , but not really . Problem is when you call to set something up you are talking with supervisors and they are definitely not the ones who are going to meet you , and they probably ca n't tell you who will meet you . ... . All that being said , I do n't see any reason to avoid US airspace . Im not sure what regs you think you 'd be avoiding but there are n't really that many to worry about in this situation ( I realize this is probably why you asked in the first place ) . There are no regulations against landing in salt water anywhere in the US . The coast guard owns the salt water essentially and they are great to work with . Also controllers are n't going to care if you land without an airport anywhere , no regs against it ( think helicopters , grass strips , good bush flying ) . That being said , there is a big difference between being legal and not pissing people off . Land in the intercoastal in a lot of places and you 'll probab
Considering the difference between legal and smart , you could nonetheless potentially satisfy the training requirements with just a few hours in a helicopter . <URL> specifically notes that certain requirements must be satisfied in a helicopter : 61.109 ( c ) ( 1 ) : " 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a helicopter ; " 61.109 ( c ) ( 2 ) : " [ ... ] 3 hours of night flight training in a helicopter that includes " a 50nm flight and 10 takeoffs and landings 61.109 ( c ) ( 3 ) : " 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a helicopter in preparation for the practical test ... " 61.109 ( c ) ( 4 ) : " 10 hours of solo flight time in a helicopter ... " Theoretically , the flight training could be all combined , resulting in 3 dual and 10 solo hours in a helicopter , the rest of the requirements being fulfilled in a different category or class of aircraft . The FAA issued <URL> about these rules in 2012 . The discussion was about weight-shift-control aircraft ( 61.109 ( j ) ) , but the reasoning is applicable to other sections of 61.109 : In your letter you indicate that an examiner you spoke with stated that all of the aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.109 ( j ) , to include the 40 hours of flight time , 20 hours of flight training , and 10 hours of solo flight training must be completed in a weight-shift-control aircraft . That statement was incorrect . [ ... ] ... [ T ] he requirement for an applicant for a weight-shift-control aircraft to have 40 hours of flight time may be met by obtaining flight time in any category and class of aircraft . Paragraphs ( j ) ( 1 ) through ( j ) ( 5 ) of § 61.109 specify the flight training that must be received by an applicant to receive a weight-shift-control aircraft rating . Flight training is defined in § 61.1 as " training , other than ground training , received from an authorized instructor in flight in an aircraft . " Similar to the definition of flight time , it also does not include a limitation that the training be obtained in any particular category and class of aircraft . That said , this is somewhat academic : in order to get a solo signoff from a CFI , a student would at least require nontrivial training time in a helicopter . I 'll also cite another <URL> I came across in my research , which has perhaps the most obvious statement in an FAA legal interpretation : First , you ask whether your student is required to be proficient to the practical test standards to pass a practical exam . The answer is yes .
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
The protected area for circling approaches is based on distance from the runway ( s ) , and the size of that area ( and your approach MDA ) depends upon your aircraft 's VREF or 1.3 & times ; VSO -- or , if higher , your actual IAS approach speed . Here 's the graphic the FAA uses to demonstrate this , along with the old protected area radii : New circling minumums For approaches that use the new criteria , both Aeronav and Jeppesen charts show an inverted " C " in the circling minimums section of the approach plate . This signifies that the approach uses the new , altitude-dependent protected areas . Those areas are defined in the same way as before , but with different radii . Aeronav ( NACO ) format : Jeppesen format : As far as figuring out how large your protected area is in flight , you 'll have to use the inverted " C " as a cue to look up the table that will be included in the appendices of the approach plates : <URL> The NBAA has <URL> , but this basically sums it up . The update leaves us with what is honestly a less-than-desirable system . Looking up a table to brief your circling radius in flight ( or even prior to your flight ) is certainly a lot less useful than simply printing the protected area radius on the minimums section . It 's worth noting that feature <URL> ( p. 4 ) when the change was being discussed .
In personal experience , I often look for a step ladder to inspect ground inaccessible engines and control surfaces and I have seen others look at their aircraft from a second story window . My personal practice is to walk around the aircraft prior to every flight , not just at the first flight of the day , but I often had to make time for that . It may not be common practice . But that is an aside . Here 's the reality . If you are talking about the walk-around that the pilot or flight engineer might do , there are not up close inspections of the elevated engines and control surfaces . The walk-around will look for leaking oil , missing $ 1500 fasteners or whatever , but one is not checking the dipstick prior to engine start . How are things inspected ? The manufacturer factors that into the design . From an operational standpoint , the pilot ( s ) , FE will look at performance during engine start , and make sure that the profile does not deviate from the expected temps , flow , etc. . In summary , if you ca n't get to it , it is not likely on the walk-around checklist .
Jessica Cox explains it herself in this video : <URL> She 's using her legs in place of hands ( I.e , using her feet to manipulate the controls , throttle etc ) and she specifically flies an Ercoupe which has no rudder pedals .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
My question is , when there 's no defined cloud layer , what is considered " cloud " and what is n't ? If the minima require you to stay 500 feet below clouds , where exactly is that ? With metars showing no ceiling how do you know where it is safe to fly and where there might be an ifr flight descending that ca n't see you ? The FAA defines clouds in AC-006B A cloud is a visible aggregate of minute water droplets and/or ice particles in the atmosphere above the Earth 's surface . Fog differs from cloud only in that the base of fog is at the Earth 's surface while clouds are above the surface . Clouds are like signposts in the sky that provide information on air motion , stability , and moisture . Clouds help pilots visualize weather conditions and potential weather hazards . However legally and practically speaking you can fly as high as you like if there are no clouds provided you can maintain situational awareness and proper cloud clearances from any adjacent clouds ( <URL> ) . There are a few practical limits to this . First off Class A airspace starts at FL180 so you cant fly above 18,000 Ft. without being on an IFR flight plan since you cant fly VFR into class A. Further more , since you seem to be asking about small aircraft , you will more than likely be limited by your airframes maximum altitude before hitting the Class A limit . You will also need O2 onboard to fly above 12,500 ft. The risk of a descending aircraft above you is always a concern be it VFR or IFR flying as they generally cant see below them and you cant always see above you when flying . In many cases the IFR flight will have some help from ATC who will see you on radar even if you are flying VFR and squawking 1200 on your transponder .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
For the US under the FAA , Yes you do ! <URL> Changes of fixed equipment may have a major effect upon the weight of the aircraft . Many aircraft are overloaded by the installation of extra radios or instruments . Fortunately , the replacement of older , heavy electronic equipment with newer , lighter types results in a weight reduction . This weight change , however helpful , can cause the CG to shift , which must be computed and annotated in the weight and balance record . For larger repairs . Repairs and alterations are the major sources of weight changes . It is the responsibility of the FAA-certificate mechanic or repairman making any repair or alteration to know the weight and location of a change , to compute the CG , record the new empty weight and EWCG in the aircraft weight and balance record , and update the equipment lists . Generally this is done by the shop that installs them . If you as the owner/operator installs them ( <URL> ) you may need to have a new WB drafted up . This is also checked at anual every year , The FAA-certificated mechanic or repairman conducting an annual or condition inspection must ensure the weight and balance data in the aircraft records is current and accurate . It is the responsibility of the PIC to use the most current weight and balance data when operating the aircraft .
There are many details to recognize , for example : The handle that locks the doors . <URL> <URL> Another way is to read the safety card , on them , you can read clearly if you are on a Boeing or Airbus , and on which type as well . The first picture is a typical Boeing 's door , and the second , an Airbus ' . ( source internet pictures from different types of handles ) On Airbus A32F , when the landing gear extends , the exit lights will turn on . The cabin interior differs from company to company , however the cockpit is unique , but nowadays , passengers are not allowed to visit the cockpit during the flights . If you seat on the seats , from where you can identify the winglet , they could give you some tips , most of the Airbus A32F have shark winglet , but it is changing , however , scimitar winglets are typical from New generation Boeings 737 .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
When sitting at the exit you need to be the first one out of the plane . Basically when the emergency is declared and the captain says , Evacuate , Evacuate , you go to your door , check the outside for fires . Then you open the door en be the first one out of the door . You then put as much distant between you and the plane as fast as possible . Or you assist on the outside of the plane by making sure people create enough distance between themselves and the plane . What could with hold them from sitting there is the responsibility to get the door open . Or the fact that they enter a shock and will be unable to move during an emergency .
In the US , an appropriate instrument rating is needed to fly when WX conditions are below VFR minimums , and at night for SVFR . <URL> Additionally , one needs an appropriate instrument rating to fly under an IFR clearance when in controlled airspace , regardless of the WX . Notes : ATP and things like a category and class in an airship are exceptions . Also an airplane instrument rating works in gliders . Etc. . Addendum : Specific to the OP 's citing a NTSB report , the following comment is added : To rely on the mentioned NTSB report , it is important to read the findings , and understand that , a. ) the pilot intended to hit VFR conditions before 700AGL and upon entering controlled airspace , b. ) the pilot told people he was taking off despite qualified observers noting 200 ft clouds , c. ) the airport where approach was based said they were below IFR , which would leave the pilot few options if he needed to land nearby . Given that , it is easy to agree with the NTSB . Just because something is legal , does n't mean it is best practice , and in this case it is likely the pilot did not do as stated . One final point , IFR without a clearance in Class G is a decision which should not be taken lightly . Years ago , I routinely did it , and the airspace was uncontrolled at safe IFR enroute altitudes . Departing a Class G airport , with less than VFR conditions , and expecting VFR before hitting controlled airspace at 700AGL is dubious . The vest majority of my IFR flights in uncontrolled airspace , that were without benefit of clearances , were where there are large areas of uncontrolled airspace , and safe IFR altitudes could be flown enroute . Furthermore , while ATC did not issue clearances for flight in uncontrolled airspace , coordination with ATC where possible , and also with local FSS were done . That is different from popping off an airport that is likely IMC , and stating that one intends to climb into VFR weather before hitting 700AGL and controlled airspace . The frosting on the cake is having the field in the area be below IFR limits for approaches . Good judgment is hard to legislate .
I would say yes you can as per the FAR as I read them the limitations on a PPL are § 61.113 ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft So you cant act as Pilot In Command for hire or if there are passengers on board ( which in this case I assume there are not ) however if we look at the FAR for the official definition of " Pilot In Command " we will find Pilot in command means the person who : ( 1 ) Has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight ; ( 2 ) Has been designated as pilot in command before or during the flight ; and ( 3 ) Holds the appropriate category , class , and type rating , if appropriate , for the conduct of the flight . The question is does taxing count as a " Flight " . I would think it does not and moving the aircraft around is part of maintenance ( thats how they log the hours on the trainer planes I rent ) . The FAR definitions section ( § 1.1 ) does not seem to contain one for " flight " so that may be open to interpretation . But as I read it you can taxi the aircraft for compensation as its not a " Flight " and thus you are not the Pilot In Command which is when the PPL rules would come into play in my opinion . However section § 65.81 states However , he may not supervise the maintenance , preventive maintenance , or alteration of , or approve and return to service , any aircraft or appliance , or part thereof , for which he is rated unless he has satisfactorily performed the work concerned at an earlier date . The key line ( Bolded ) is return to service . If Taxing counts as returned to service then ( unless rated to do so ) you may not be able to for this reason ( nothing to do with compensation ) . Note : I am not a lawyer nor an aircraft mechanic and can not guarantee that my assumptions are correct . The opinions stated above should not be used as official legal advice and there may be more information in the FAR that I have not come across . This was compiled after some quick reading and searching in the assumed correct places . Note 2 : I would assume that in a commercial setting ( and really any setting ) there are some insurance implications to this kind of operation ( especially with large aircraft ) . This may almost be a bigger concern than the legality of it ( although both are important ) . You would not want to get into the situation where you may be legally allowed to drive the plane on the tarmac but are not covered by the company 's insurance . Should you get into an accident you or your shop may become liable for the damages .
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
From the Code of Federal Regulations <URL> § 21.613 Duration . ( a ) A TSO authorization or letter of TSO design approval is effective until surrendered , withdrawn , or otherwise terminated by the FAA . ( b ) If a TSO is revised or canceled , the holder of an affected FAA letter of acceptance of a statement of conformance , TSO authorization , or letter of TSO design approval may continue to manufacture articles that meet the original TSO without obtaining a new acceptance , authorization , or approval but must comply with the requirements of this chapter . From the FAA 's page on <URL> : What is the difference between a " Canceled TSO " and " Withdrawal of a TSO authorization " ? A " Canceled TSO " means that the TSO has been rendered inactive and the FAA will no longer issue new TSO authorizations against that particular TSO . However , any existing TSO Authorizations obtained prior to the cancellation of the TSO are still valid and may continue to be manufactured and marked in accordance with that authorization . The " Withdrawal of a TSO authorization " means that a specific authorization letter is withdrawn by the FAA and the approval to manufacture that particular article is terminated . In summary , if the TSO is canceled , you can still make the article but you ca n't apply for a new authorization to that particular TSO revision level . If the TSO is withdrawn , you ca n't even manufacture the article under the TSO system ( i.e. the FAA wo n't let you put a TSO label on it ) . An example of the FAA suspending a TSO Authorization <URL>
end question
start question
How do I say these situations , according to the runway 's status ?
In the US , you would use " closed " . From the <URL> : CLOSED RUNWAY − A runway that is unusable for aircraft operations . Only the airport management / military operations office can close a runway And this is part of the example ATIS broadcast from the same document : Left approach in use , Runway Two Five Right closed , advise you have Alfa . I do n't know if ICAO uses a different term , but " closed " is probably going to be clear to most pilots ( and non-pilots , for that matter ) .
Honestly ? It 's probably because they heard someone else do it , and thought it sounded cool ( or otherwise just got it stuck in their head ) . You 're 100 % right - saying the runway name is , if slightly longer , certainly a bit more informative . It 's the kind of thing that can help arriving pilots know which runway is in use , keeping later radio clutter ( " Um , uhh , Jeffco Traffic , um , say runway in use ? " ) to a minimum for pilots already on frequency . Even a ' one runway airport ' still has two runways ( 09/27 , for example ) , and it 's nice to know which one you should set up for when winds are light . The preferred terminology is more like " Jeffco Traffic , 3AC , clear 29 " .
<URL> Source : FAA VFR chart . The magenta dashed is from surface , the magenta gradient is from 700 ft. AGL , and the blue gradient from 1200 ft. AGL .
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
In the US , you would use " closed " . From the <URL> : CLOSED RUNWAY − A runway that is unusable for aircraft operations . Only the airport management / military operations office can close a runway And this is part of the example ATIS broadcast from the same document : Left approach in use , Runway Two Five Right closed , advise you have Alfa . I do n't know if ICAO uses a different term , but " closed " is probably going to be clear to most pilots ( and non-pilots , for that matter ) .
As Ron commented , the basic answer is that you try to anticipate when a short gap is going to be , and jump on before someone else does . It sounds a bit daunting , but it actually works out pretty well in practice . That being said , it 's not exactly first come first serve . ATC tends to prioritize talking to the aircraft which need the most immediate instructions . So , an aircraft on final is going to get more priority than one which has n't even entered the airspace yet . Even if you manage to get your request in , if the controller has a more immediate issue to address , you may get completely ignored . Sometimes they 'll come back with " calling approach , say again " or sometimes you just have to try again later . Either way , it 's usually not too difficult to stay out of trouble long enough to get someone 's attention . If you 're IFR or have already made initial contact , you can probably just continue on your path and you 'll eventually become a big enough priority for them that they 'll call you if you still have n't a chance to get a word in . If you 're VFR and have n't made initial contact , you can probably just avoid the airspace for a few minutes .
The FAA 's <URL> : Is an FAA-issued pilot certificate required to operate a civil UAS under an experimental airworthiness certificate or a grant of exemption under Section 333 ? If the aircraft is issued an airworthiness certificate , a pilot certificate is required .5 Pilot certification requirements for petitions for exemption under Section 333 are evaluated on a case-by-case basis . The footnote links to this <URL> called Airworthiness Certification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Optionally Piloted Aircraft , which says : b. UA PIC Certification and Ratings Requirements . ( 1 ) The PIC must hold and be in possession of , at a minimum , an FAA private pilot certificate , with either an airplane , rotorcraft , or powered-lift category ; with single - or multiengine class ratings , appropriate to the type of UA being operated . ( 2 ) The PIC must have and be in possession of a valid second-class ( or higher ) airman medical certificate issued under 14 CFR part 67 , Medical Standards and Certification . So , it looks like there are two possibilities : Your UAS has an airworthiness certificate , therefore you need a pilot 's license per the Order ( private at least , not sport or recreational ) Your UAS does n't have an airworthiness certificate , therefore your section 333 petition will be evaluated individually and the FAA will tell you if you need a license or not
Shhhhhh , here is the biggest secret of aviation : It 's actually quite easy to become a pilot . You can actually get your private certificate before you are allowed to drive ! <URL> . When most people think of piloting small general aviation aircraft , they are thinking about the <URL> certificate . Part 141 is the most common route for that . The hardest part is being able to pass the FAA physical , but keep in mind that as a private ( or even recreational ) pilot , you do n't need to get a Class I , just a Class III . To become an airline ( ATP ) or military pilot does require a great deal more work and training , but I think that may be beyond the scope of your question . The best advice is to go to the local airfield or FBO and find a flight school . Good luck .
This thread should be a great source of tips and tricks :) The way to think about this is to think about the purpose of being asked to divert during your checkride . What the examiner will be looking for is not that you have all of the information for every possible airport you might be asked to fly to . The examiner is wanting to see that if you had to divert unexpectedly for whatever reason , that you are able to do this safely . That 's the bottom line . In order to do this , you should start working on the problem during your ground planning , and for the purposes of your checkride , this will be no different to planning any other flight . Plan for your alternate . You should have charts , frequencies etc and of course , enough fuel . Your examiner is not going to ask you to divert to somewhere when you reach your destination , it 's going to be somewhere en-route . As part of any good plan , you are going to familiarise yourself with possible diversions along the route . If you had an urgent situation ( not a dire emergency where nearest available is the only choice ) requiring you to divert when you were flying solo after you gained your license , where would you go ? This does n't mean that you need every possible piece of information for every possible airport but it does mean : Do I have enough fuel to make possible diversions ? Do I have charts on board covering the areas to the left and right of my plan ? - Have I folded my charts so that it 's easy to see what possible diversions there are easily ? Do I have Jeppesen ( or whatever ) on board and is it up to date ? Have I checked the METARs and NOTAMs for anything significant for those likely diversions . Do I have my E6B or other planning tool and do I know how to use it fully ? Do I know what ATC agencies I would talk to along the route if I need assistance , even if flying in uncontrolled airspace ? In your notebook for the planned flight , write down the likely diversion airfields with their key details . The list above should be part of any plan , not just for your checkride . One of the key things you 're going to need to figure out is " how long will it take me to get to the diversion " ? In order to know this , you 're going to need to know the wind at the altitude you are going to be flying at . The way I handled this was to draw a circle on my chart , marked with the wind at altitude , then the corresponding ground speed already worked out on my E6B and written into the circle for each cardinal and mid-cardinal point on the compass rose . You can glance at this little chart to instantly see that if , for example , the requested diversion needs me to fly a heading of 320 , I will be doing 86 kts for an airspeed of 100 kts . This saves you having to actually use your E6B in the cockpit to do this . Mark off 0 , 45 , 90 , 135 etc. . If you think about it , doing this in planning will prepare you for any * sensible " diversion you might be asked to make . When it comes to the time of the diversion , the primary thing your examiner is looking for is do you get " aviate , navigate , communicate " ? The second thing the examiner is looking for is " can you safely divert from en-route " ? If you have planned thoroughly , and you follow aviate , navigate , communicate , then almost by definition , you will safely divert . So your examiner suddenly says , OK , see that completely unexpected giant sandstorm ahead , you need to get down soon . Please divert to " Mark Watney - Space Pirate " airport . Avoid the single , most important thing in this whole exercise at this point . Do no go into heads down mode . It 's easy to do if you are unprepared . Your head should be down for at most 15 seconds . Do each thing one step at a time , then scan and lookout . If you are well prepared and planned , then not going heads down will be easy . You now need 3 things immediately - everything else can come later . What heading do I need to fly ? How long will it take me to get there ? Can I make it ? For the heading , grab your chart , find the airport , then take a rough heading you need . You do n't , at this stage , need to be super accurate . Within 10 or 15 degrees will be good . The important thing is to begin flying to towards the diversion . You can get the ruler out and refine your heading once you 've got the initial diversion sorted out . Do n't forget to aviate . Keep your head moving , keep your scan and lookout going . When you set up for the new heading and turn on to it , remember the gross error check as you roll out . How long will it take ? Again , you do n't need to be super accurate . Grab a quick measure of the distance from the chart and your ruler . Then look at that wind chart you prepared earlier . Get your estimated ground speed . Can I get there ? You should know the aircrafts ' fuels consumption numbers so do the quick calculation in your head . During all of this , remember to aviate at all times . Also , remember to conduct your normal en-route and turn check lists . Now it 's time to communicate .
When an Aviation Medical Examiner , AME , issues you a medical certificate , that is the relevant " permission " you need . Having sleep apnea complicates that issuance process , but does n't necessarily make it impossible . Along with what you read on the AOPA forums , I would suggest making an appointment to talk with a local AME , preferably one who has accomplished this process with other pilots before . He can give you a picture of what the process is likely to look like in your case , which is a better answer than assuming that your journey will look like that of somebody you read about on the internet .
A common way to approach this is to walk through the flight and write down each frequency you 'll need in order . Your route is a bit unclear ( are you departing Aspen or landing there ? ) but let 's say it 's KBDU-KASE-KDEN and it 's a VFR flight . And I 'm assuming you 're only asking about comms , not nav . You think through what you 're doing at each point and then write down the station , frequency and what you plan to say , request or listen for , as the case may be . For example , you 're departing <URL> ; it 's uncontrolled so you 'll check the AWOS and then use the CTAF to announce your intentions as you taxi and depart . After that the route to KASE seems to be through uncontrolled airspace but you 'll probably want to get the Empire and Copper Mtn AWOS along the way . And if you want flight following then you 'll have to call Denver Center to get it . <URL> is controlled , so you 'll need to get their ATIS , then call the tower , and after landing you 'll be handed off to Ground . Departing KASE , you 'll get the ATIS , call Ground , then the Tower and after departure maybe Denver Center again for flight following . And so on ... You 'll end up with a frequency log like this : KBDU - AWOS - 118.825 - Get altimeter , wind , etc. . KBDU - CTAF - 122.725 - Announce taxi and departure Denver Ctr - 126.1 - Request flight following Empire AWOS - 134.325 - Get WX and compare to forecast ; change flight plan if needed [ ... ] KASE - ATIS - 120.4 - Get WX and runway in use KASE - Tower - 118.85 - Announce landing intentions ( check two way comms before entering class D ! ) KASE - Ground -121.9 - Request taxi to FBO [ Etc. . . ] This can be a really useful planning exercise , especially in unfamiliar areas . If you 're unsure of the phraseology or procedures for any item on the list then you can talk to your instructor about it , and listen to real comms on <URL> . <URL> in particular would ( will ? ) be busy , it 's class B . But remember that plans change . ATC may give you an unexpected frequency , or you may copy down a frequency incorrectly and then find no one is listening . Make sure that you update your log in flight as needed ; do n't fixate on it being ' correct ' to the point where you ignore instructions or information to the contrary ; and be able to look up frequencies quickly on your charts or flight software .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
Maximum rate climbs and descents are achieved by using a speed climb/descent mode . Where the pitch controls the speed . Above picture shows part of the autopilot control panel on a Boeing 737 . The button LVL CHG ( level change ) activates such mode . Each manufacturer has their own name for it , but it 's the same functionality . In an Airbus you 'd pull the altitude knob to activate such mode , they call it " open climb/descent . " In level change climb , the throttles are engaged at the maximum power for a climb , the autopilot then controls the plane 's nose up/down to hold the selected speed . For maximum climb rate , you want the speed to be low ( ideally Vy ) , using all the available thrust to climb . For descents , the reverse is true , so you set the highest speed possible , the requested altitude , and activate the LVL CHG mode . The throttles are then idled , and the pilots would deploy the spoilers . The plane will nose-down to achieve that speed . Rate of descent will be very steep initially , then it will ease off to hold the speed . Spoilers add drag , so to achieve the same speed the aircraft will nose down more , resulting in higher vertical speed . As you descend into thicker atmosphere , the descent rate will again start to decrease , as the plane will be producing more lift and drag . So we ca n't pin point an exact value , but 6,000-7 ,000 feet per minutes is not uncommon . Once a rate of descent is achieved , whether it 's 1,000 fpm or 8,000 fpm , the G-forces on the passengers will be 1 g , as there will be no acceleration in the vertical . 737 pilots are trained to rotate ( anticlockwise ) the altitude knob twice in a quick manner , followed by activating LVL CHG mode , followed by one full clockwise rotation of the heading knob ( to deviate away from any traffic below ) , to commence an emergency descent . They are hard wired for it -- they can fine tune the numbers later . ( Methods vary from airline to airline . ) <URL> shows a Boeing 777 crew training/demonstrating such procedure . The above applies for a rapid decompression , other scenarios would likely require a descent , but not that steeply .
Since nobody else has posted an answer , I follow Dan 's suggestion and copy my comment here . Unanswered questions make this site look bad . Practice , practice , practice . It 's for a reason that the pilots who fly consistently good landings are the older ones . And remember where the horizon is in reference to the airframe and how the engine sounds . At approach speed ( = at high angle of attack ) the aircraft will show large attitude changes for small airspeed changes . Remember how high you are at conspicuous points along the approach , do n't be shy to look sideways for this . And keeping a little throttle makes better landings , so do n't feel negative about this .
Depends on what you build . It is possible to build a helicopter that qualifies as an ultralight , and thus no license needed . If it exceeds the weight and power restrictions for an ultralight , then it is an experimental aircraft , that requires at least a solo ticket . I would strongly suggest that rather than scratch build your own , an experience you might not survive , you take a look at what I 'm currently lusting after : <URL> In kit form ( which technically makes you the builder ) , it can be had in ultralight form , with limited range . Or in experimental form with a more powerful 2 stroke engine and larger fuel capacity . And finally , the ( sigh ) gas turbine powered version . One advantage of building the experimental kit is : as the builder , you can perform all maintenance and the annual inspection yourself . Another advantage of going the more capable experimental route is : you can log the hours .
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
Really not sure what you 're asking , nor do I know what these terms you 've found mean , so let 's start with these drawings and see where we end up . DC-9 Bleed air enters from the engine ( or APU ) at bottom left of this drawing and enters the primary heat exchanger . Then it enters the compressor in the ACM and then on to the secondary heat exchanger . From here it enters the turbine and this is the point that the heat loss occurs and cold air enters the water separator and then the cabin of the airplane . Note the anti-ice screen and the pack anti-ice valve which adds a little heat if the air exiting the turbine is too cold and is causing ice . The water separator is a cone-shaped cage with a heavy cotton bag over it . This collects condensation in the air and dumps it on to the face of the secondary heat exchanger to cool and improve it 's efficiency . Temperature in the cabin is controlled by the temperature control valve on the left side of the drawing . 737 This system is very similar to the DC-9 and really the main difference is that the pack anti-ice valve here is operated electrically , while on the DC-9 it is done mechanically with a pneumatically operated valve . 757/767 This is a much different system , many more electrical sensors and control . The pack cooling fan is an integral part of the ACM , where on the other two systems they are separate components . The water separators are much more advanced and do n't require regular maintenance like on the other systems . As you can see , these three systems are all basically the same with the only real difference being how they are controlled and some of the ancillary components .
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
Simplest answer : Call the tower . Or ask instructors/schools in the area if the controllers care when you arrive and want to practice . Usually if you arrive during the busiest time , you 'll likely be accommodated as best as they can , but there 's a chance you could be told to just do a full-stop taxi-back operation if that helps out or told to go fly around elsewhere for a bit . It depends on what airport you 're thinking about going to . If you want to go to ATL , well , you 'll be vectored in a gap , and told go as fast as you can for as long as you can , and be told to land ( or if you go around , expect a long delay to find a new gap ) . If it 's just a general aviation airport , anytime is fine .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of the Boeing SCAP module ?
The Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance ( SCAP ) interface is a standardised model for calculating aircraft performance of air transport category aircraft . The SCAP standard is <URL> and leading aircraft manufacturers . From the IATA website : One particularly complex requirement is the calculation of takeoff performance data . Most airlines use programs supplied by the airplane manufacturers for each airplane type , and interface these programs with their own computer operating environment , airfield database , and data output format requirements . In order to reduce the development effort for the airlines ( interfacing with different airplane manufacturers ' programs ) and manufacturers ( meeting individual airline requirements for customer-specific features ) there are clear advantages in standardizing as much as possible the input/output features of these programs , and also data formats . Having recognised this potential benefit , IATA , ATA and several manufacturers set up a Standardized Computerized Airplane Performance Task Force ( SCAP TF ) . A SCAP module is a FORTRAN program that implements the SCAP standard . It takes a set of well defined inputs to produce a well defined output . The advantage of this approach is that it is possible for a third party to design a software program that requires aircraft performance data without having access to this proprietary data . The software can then be used for aircraft performance calculations of any aircraft as long as it has access its SCAP modules . There are 6 SCAP specifications for Takeoff , Landing , Climbout , Inflight , Noise and APM ( Aircraft Performance Monitoring ) . I do n't have access to the official SCAP specification , but from what I can find online I gather that for take-off performance the following is required : TODA ( Take-Off Distance Available ) TORA ( Take-Off Run Available ) ASDA ( Accelerate Stop Distance Available ) runway elevation runway surface condition runway heading wind speed and direction ambient Temperature QNH MEL/CDL items affecting performance max take-off thrust and reduced ( FLX ) option anti-icing options flap settings V1/VR ( fixed or opt ) V2/VS ( fixed or opt ) minimum acceleration altitude actual take-off weight I gather the landing SCAP module needs : LDA ( Landing Distance Available ) runway surface condition runway elevation runway heading wind speed and direction ambient temperature MEL/CDL items affecting performance approach type ( CAT I/II/III ) anti-icing options presence of residual ice flap setting ( fixed or opt ) expected landing weight
There are 2 different black boxes . The cockpit voice recorder . This holds audio from several different sources , including the microphone for each pilot , the radio and a general cockpit microphone . The flight data recorder holds at least 88 different parameters including attitude of the craft , engine performance , autopilot setting , pilot input one the controls , etc. .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
It depends on how you define " glass cockpit . " Technology has progressed in steps to the modern " glass cockpits " of the latest aircraft . Who developed the first glass cockpits ? The military appears to be the first place where electronic displays were used . First for specific uses like navigation or targeting scopes , and later gaining more functionality . Which planes first used these glass cockpits ? The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 . The North American <URL> was equipped with a multifunction display and entered service in 1970 . The commercial side of the industry took a bit longer to adopt the technology . The McDonnell Douglas <URL> had a glass primary flight display and navigation display , and entered service in <URL> . Boeing started work on glass cockpits in the <URL> while developing the the Supersonic Transport ( SST ) . While the SST never entered production , the work on glass cockpit technology was <URL> of the <URL> and <URL> , entering service in 1982 and 1983 , respectively . This was based on work with NASA , including <URL> beginning in 1973 . The Airbus <URL> entered service in 1983 , and also used <URL> . The <URL> , entering service in 1988 , was the first aircraft regarded as having a " full " glass cockpit , replacing traditional instruments for the primary flight instruments . How was the current layout developed , were other layouts in use beforehand ? The first displays were generally dedicated to specific functions . For commercial aircraft , there was a primary flight display ( PFD ) showing the pitch and roll of the aircraft . There was also a second display for navigation which displayed the aircraft 's heading . As RedGrittyBrick points out , adding the speed and altitude to the PFD was natural due to their typical position on either side of the PFD . The use of the vertical " tape " format allows the same visual sense of direction as a round dial while taking up less space in the display . Was there any resistance or difficulty in getting these systems adopted amongst pilots or their companies ? Although there was certainly a sense of caution with the introduction of new technology replacing the most important instruments in the cockpit , the benefits were enough to get the changes adopted . <URL> from 1989 , focusing on the " glass cockpit " in the 757 . It covers the effect on the pilots and their opinions of the new technology . The study shows that the pilots had an overall positive view of the new technology , since it reduced their workload and made tasks easier in many situations . However , the report also identified issues with crew members becoming " complacent " due to more automation , and some tasks actually became more difficult with the new systems . There is also the issue of training pilots on the complex new systems , and about what information should be hidden from pilots either during training or in operation of the aircraft . These types of discussions are certainly not going away , as is evidenced by recent events .
It depends on what you mean by " optimal " . For a dogfight , the optimal age is probably 30 . At this age a person has lots of experience , but still maintains their full mental agility , ability to calculate and energy . In a dogfight your ability to think fast and calculate your next move is the critical factor . For combat missions , however , 40-45 may be more optimal , because experience , judgement and knowledge becomes more important . Knowing when to attack , how to attack , how to make your approach , how to do your mission setup , and many other things become the product of long experience . For complicated missions in enemy territory , it is better to have someone with long experience , rather than a young hotshot . Once a person hits about 60-65 years in age , their mental ability to calculate declines significantly . Nevertheless , experience can make up for it in some instances . For example , at age 63 <URL> was a candidate for the world chess championship , an amazing accomplishment for a person of that age . Emanuel Lasker took 3rd place at Moscow 1935 , a premier chess tournament , at the age of 66 , which was practically a miracle . These are exceptions , however . In general , once a person gets into their 60s , their mental ability deteriorates . Therefore , the age 50-55 can be considered the maximum age at which experience and judgement can be used effectively in high speed combat situations . Complex Mission Role To investigate my basic assertion that optimal age for a combat mission ( not air supremacy ) pilot is 40-45 I investigated pilot astronauts . Since astronauts are selected from large numbers of candidates and have short careers typically , it is a safe assumption that their average age is what NASA considers to be ideal . According to <URL> the mean age for all selected pilot candidates is 39.90 years old . If we assume a pilot has a 5-year career , then my guess for optimal age matches perfectly with NASA 's selection choices . This may be considered strong evidence that for a pilot executing complex missions , the optimal age range is , indeed , 40 to 45 years . Air Supremacy Role ( " dog fighting " ) To determine the optimal age for air supremacy ( " dog fighting " ) , if we had access to the USAF 's ( or other country 's ) exercise data over time , we might get an idea since we could calculate an ELO rating for each combatant and identify to the top exercise fighters of all time . Unfortunately this kind of data is not released as far as I know , probably because the armed services do like naming or identifying particular soldiers . I do strongly suspect , though , that if such a study was done it would show the " best in the world " air supremacy pilots would be clustered around the age of 30 . To check this , I tried summarizing statistics from WW2 German fighter pilots . Using birth data on 470 German aces I generated the following plot : In this chart , the bar chart is the total number of aces grouped by date of birth . The blue dots are the average number of victories for that birth year group . What this chart seems to show is that performance is remarkably consistent between the ages of 18 and 32 , with a slight advantage to the younger pilots , but then declines significantly . The 1922 group was significantly skewed by <URL> . If we eliminate him as an outlier , the top group is the class of 1920 which would have been between the ages of 19 and 25 during the war . This seems to show my original guess was wrong , and that dogfighting is dependent more on quick reflexes and fast thinking than on experience , which hands the edge to the young .
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
The FAA has <URL> on ASDE-X , most of which I personally have no idea how to interpret correctly . The <URL> in particular has a lot of technical details on radar performance and although I did n't understand much of it I did notice this requirement : 3.6.3 Map Registration The display of target data shall [ R306 ] be registered to the display map with an accuracy of at least 20 feet . So whatever the technical capabilities of the system are , operationally it seems that you can assume it 's accurate to within 20ft , which seems to be reasonable in the context of large aircraft . You may be able to get more out of the documentation than I could , of course .
the <URL> is the line stretching from the leading edge of the wing to the trailing edge parallel to the centerline . <URL> There are different variations to describe the chord of the whole wing . The Standard Mean Chord Defined as $ \ frac S b $ with $ S$ the surface area and $ b $ the span of the wing . This is not used in aerodynamics . The Mean Aerodynamic Chord Defined as $ \ frac2 S \ int_0 ^ { \ frac b 2 } c ( y ) ^ 2 dy $ with $ y $ the coordinate along the wing and $ c ( y ) $ the chord at $ y $ . For swept or delta wings this gives the equivalent chord for a rectangular wing , and is important for placing the Center of Gravity for stability .
These weights are all based on the maximum an aircraft will ever see . The maximum allowed weight of passengers ( + luggage ) and cargo ( called payload weight ) is the difference between the Operational empty weight ( about 270,000 kg ) and the Zero fuel weight ( 361,000 kg ) . This means the payload weight is about 91,000 kg . The passenger and crew weight can be estimated by the following numbers : 175 lbs per pax + 30 lbs of baggage for short medium range distance ( or 40 lbs for long range ) 175 lbs per crew member + 30 lbs of baggage $ ^ 1 $ So let 's say that ( for easier calculations ) the average passenger + luggage weight is 100 kg . When we assume 530 passengers and 25 crew , then the weight would be $ 555 \ times100 = 55,000 kg $ . That leaves 36,000 kg for cargo . All the weights listed are , of course , maximum weights . That means that an aircraft in general does not meet these values . The maximum fuel weight is the difference between maximum ramp weight and zero fuel weight ( which is $ 562,000-361 ,000 = 201,000 kg $ ) . About 2,000 kg is taken for the time the engines are running while the aircraft did not yet take of ( for taxiing etc ) . This is the difference between maximum ramp weight and MTOW . The amount of fuel varies so much per flight that I really ca n't say anything about it . It depends on the air pressure in the flight path ( aircraft choose their routes depending on that , for a faster flight ) , weather along the route , and much more . For quite a good overview I suggest for you to read <URL> . I hope I answered your question sufficiently . $ ^ 1 $ Source : Jan Roskam , Airplane design , Part I : Preliminary Sizing of Airplanes ( 1985 )
According to the Payload/range diagrams from the <URL> ( page 95 ) , the fuel capacity is 32 539 kg ( 71 737 lb ) <URL>
Yes . The peak is the actual coffin corner . That 's why it is called a corner . In the coffin corner the aircraft can not climb any higher , which is a definition for the <URL> . Going any faster will reduce L/D and cause the aircraft to sink ; that Mach effects are involved is of minor importance . Going slower will also decrease L/D because the aircraft is approaching stall . What is special about the coffin corner is not the corner itself , but what happens when the aircraft gets too fast : Now stronger shocks will increase drag and decrease the maximum lift coefficient such that the aircraft is locked into a shallow dive from which it is initially not able to recover . Going too fast while flying at the " regular " absolute ceiling merely means that you will lose some altitude but not lose control .
It 's been a while since my last lessons on radars , but . . The pulse length and the pulse repetition frequency play key roles in radar min and max ranges . The pulse the radar sends must be short enough to end ( and the radar switch to detection mode ) before the reflection returns . To give a rough example , if the pulse length is 2 ms , the theoretical minimum range would be equal to pulse distance in 1 ms ( 1 there and 1 back ) . The pulse travels at light speed , so you can calculate the distance there . Note that the pulse lengths differ a lot depending on radars , and presumably none of the are 1 ms long . Free quote from the book Understanding Radar Systems : Pulse length of 3 µs , which is a fairly typical pulse length for a long-range airborne surveillance radar , would give a theoretical range resolution of 450 m. However , other factors such as signal processing degrade the resoution , and in the given case the resolution would be around 750 m. Note again , that radars are designed to serve a specific purpose , for example a long-range surveillance radar emphasizes range over resolution . What it comes to fighters , most modern fighters have <URL> instead of pulse radars , which work continuously and handle the signal differently .
Please use the equations of <URL> . The numbers might be different , but the physics are the same . EDIT : Thanks to D_S for providing the link to the manual . When flown with the maximum allowable load factor of 1.5 g at 80.000 ft ( 48 ° bank ) , the turn radius at Mach 3.2 ( equivalent to v = 953.3 m/s in 80.000 ft ) will be 83.5 km . To be more precise , you will need to add the effects of earth rotation , but for now I leave this away . As you can see , the turn will still need 163 km or 103.7 miles , but not the <URL> which is more than 6 times bigger . To turn this around : A circle at Mach 3.2 which has a diameter of 1092 km requires a bank angle of 9.6 ° . That can hardly be called a turn .
Metal fatigue is normally the limiting factor of an aircraft 's lifespan . Fatigue cracks build up every flight ( start &amp; landing ) , called a cycle . Therefore the design life of an aircraft is typically given in cycles . Metal fatigue cracks source : <URL> For long haul aircraft , that make relatively few cycles , the design lifespan is in the order of 40 000 cycles . For short haul the number is higher , sometimes up to 111 000 cycles . For example , the Boeing 747 has a design number of cycles of 35 000 , the MD-80 has 110 000 . An aircraft should be operable for about 30 years before reaching the cycle limit . The lifetime can be stretched by special inspection and maintenance programs .
Q : Could it fly between any two suitable airports on Earth , i.e. further than 20038km ? A : Not likely <URL>
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
Both leading and trailing edge sweep help to reduce compressibility effects . For simple estimates , quarter chord sweep is used . This is more influenced by the leading edge , but the trailing edge is still involved with 25 % of the total value . If we look at the particular influence of trailing edge sweep , it is mostly found in the effectiveness of flaps and ailerons . Their effectiveness is proportional to the cosine of hinge line sweep . However , flaps at the end of a long wing chord will create a high pitching moment , requiring a big tail . Most delta wings use simpler , less effective flaps with less moment change . In supersonic aircraft trailing edge sweep helps to reduce sonic boom intensity . In the end , trailing edge sweep is mostly an outcome of the <URL> , similar to <URL> . The structural engineer will want to have a deep root airfoil in order to have enough wing height for a stiff spar or the landing gear without increasing relative thickness too much , and the aerodynamicist wants to reduce wetted area , since it will create friction drag and increase wing mass . In the end , all have to agree to a compromise .
They did , in the <URL> : Wikipedia : Similar in nature to the 747X , the stretched 747 Advanced used technology from the Boeing 787 Dreamliner to modernize the design and its systems . On November 14 , 2005 , Boeing announced that it was launching the 747 Advanced as the " Boeing 747-8 " ( Emphasis mine ) The 747-8 includes technology in the cockpit , cabin , wings , and engines borrowed or learned from the 787 and 777 aircraft programs . Obviously you ca n't just pull the wings off of a 787 and stick them on a 747 , but the wings were redesigned with aerodynamic information learned in the 777/787 program .
end question
start question
How can I mount my iPhone 6 in the cockpit to record my flights ?
UPDATE 9/4/2017 I 'm thrilled this post has been so helpful for so many people . As such , I wanted to update it with more details and more current links in case people are interested . Enjoy ! You could have a lot of fun , and get a lot out of reviewing the footage of your lessons . I 'd look into a suction cup mount as you are already considering . When buying a suction cup mount , make sure you get one that is " beefier " than you expect you need . Whatever you do , make sure you share your videos online , your video might even get someone else interested in aviation ! Below are the details of doing what you asked . You might be able to buy a used , older model gopro for a comparable price - but I 'd actually argue your phone is probably a better option . What to buy : ( this all actually gets kind of expensive , but is still cheaper than buying a go pro and accessories ) Must have : To get GoPro functionality from your iphone , you 'd need a mount and a case : <URL> ( Optrix Super Sucker Mount ) <URL> ( Case ) This is a mount that mimics the functionality of a go-pro mount . It also let 's you know if pressure is dropping in the suction cup as you climb . If you ever feel brave enough you could even stick this to your wing ! <URL> The view angle probably is not wide enough . This inexpensive kit will apply a wide angle to your iphone . I 'd make sure your case/mount does n't preclude using one of these . Best alternative camera to GoPro : <URL> ( Garmin Ultra Virb 30 ) I love the aviation data overlay of this camera . It works very well and helps debriefing a lot . I personally prefer this over my GoPro because it includes that data . Best GoPro options : <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ) 4k resolution @ 30FPS , 12MP quality is great . I use this mainly for wing mounted shots . <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ) The nice thing about the session series is they are small and super simple to operate . I use this camera to point inside the cabin , on the side windows . It is nice because it does n't block as much of my view outside , even in a mount on suction cups . Important Accessories : <URL> ( Zoom H1 ) I use this to record ATC/Headset audio . It is easy to have it recorded to its own device and lets me have better control over the audio recordings than if it was part of a video file . The audio is oftentimes more useful than the video alone , especially with your instructor explaining things to you . Having a separate device also reduces your point of failure risk if you have a camera battery die . <URL> ( Headset cable to record audio ) You need this cable to " grab " audio from your headset jack to record it to a camera or external recorder . ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( External Battery ) You will be running out of battery fast if you record HD video for any length of time . This external charger will keep you from running out of battery . ND ( Prop ) Filters ( remove the weird prop strobing from your footage ) ( Note - the Garmin Virb 30 Aviation bundle includes this ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Black ND Filter ) <URL> ( GoPro Hero5 Session ND Filter ) Placement : The best place to put it would be between the seats on the ceiling pointing landscape style towards the instrument panel . This would give you a view of all of your instruments and maybe even a bit of the horizon . At first , we all struggle to use the horizon as a reference instead of instruments , so putting the camera close to head level might help develop a good sight picture . <URL> <URL> Unless you set up a second camera , you are unlikely to get rudder input on film . This video shows a good example of that angle , but might be impossible while getting dual instruction . <URL> <URL> Words of caution : Make sure your filming does n't distract you . This is really serious and not something to shrug off . Remember , you do n't want the FAA to have footage to shove in your face of you being reckless . Make sure you do n't damage the aircraft with the mount . The windshields in particular are vulnerable to being squeezed out of shape from the pressure in the suction cup , especially if they are hot . I have seen some indented windshields recently due to gopro mounts , which makes it very hard to get a normal sight picture ( imagine looking through a fun house mirror ) . UPDATE Another issue I recently saw was a result of someone using this camera : <URL> . The camera has a built in rare earth magnet which made mounting it very easy . The problem was , it was impacting the magnetic compass - so be aware if you get a magnetic mount to make sure your compass is not affected by it being placed in the cockpit ! When attached to the overhead speaker we saw no visible impact on the compass , but worth keeping an eye on . Take a look on youtube at some popular pilot channels to see how they record . From there , you can pick your favorite angles and splice a film together .
When there is no separate Clearance Delivery frequency , just call on the ground control frequency to get your clearance . Separate Clearance Delivery frequencies are only needed at busy airports to relieve radio congestion and work load . Even at a " busy " airport sometimes you will see ( hear ) one controller work both Ground and Clnc Del when the workload is low .
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
Interesting question . In the past , the preamble to the PTS showed reference material that can be used to throughout the PTS . With the new Airman Certification Standard ( ACS ) , those references are incorporated into each task . For slow flight below it lists the references as FAA-H-8083-2 , FAA-H-8083-3 and POH/AFM . <URL> <URL> Undoubtedly , it will list the Airplane Flying Handbook as a reference . All the maneuvers and techniques are in that book . It is generic and the POH takes preference if there are disagreements . <URL> <URL>
If your parachute fails to open entirely you are almost certainly extremely dead no matter where you land , however occasionally people do survive . A partial failure of a chute is much more survivable . You will be coming down much faster than you would with a good chute , and you are going to get injured , probably badly . Think broken legs and arms with neck or back trauma . You may sustain a concussion as well , and you will certainly go into shock . If you come down in the water you will be injured and unable to keep yourself afloat , and it will be much harder to rescue you . On land help will be much closer and , and as <URL> , you ca n't drown on land . Land has features which may help you survive : trees , vegetation , hay bales , crops , snow , and many other things may cushion your impact enough to make the difference between life and death . Water is the same wherever you go , and does n't have nearly enough give to cushion an impact .
The answer is : no , normal flights are not allowed under the canyon rim . If you look at the sectional chart , you see this notice : Searching through the CFR ( Title 14 , Part 91 ) brings up this <URL> - Special Flight Rules in the Vicinity of the Grand Canyon National Park , AZ. . Ther is also <URL> of Part 93 . The Subpart U regulations seem to be the most current applicable regulations ( please correct me if I am wrong ) . The rule applies to everything under 18,000 feet MSL within an area around the park ( like the chart says ) . Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight , or unless otherwise authorized by the Flight Standards District Office for a purpose listed in 93.309 , no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area within the following flight-free zones : It then describes the four zones : Desert View , Bright Angel , Toroweap/Shinumo , Sanup Flight-free Zone . You ca n't fly through these , but between them are " corridors " in which you are allowed to fly above a certain altitude . See <URL> for locations of the Flight-Free Zones and corridors . There are also minimum sector altitudes for different areas , including the corridors , which are going to be the main thing preventing you from flying very low . The altitudes are different for commercial air tours versus transient and general aviation . Also : no person may operate an aircraft within 500 feet of any terrain or structure located between the north and south rims of the Grand Canyon . There are also noise limits depending on the aircraft type . For some info on the background of these rules , see this <URL> .
You asked for legal opinion , so the main " legal " reason would be that a radio must be type-accepted for the service for which you want to use it . So unless Icom A-24 is MURS type accepted , and it is not , then it 's illegal to use it . You do n't need a special FCC license . FCC says this about licensing : MURS is licensed by rule . This means an individual license is not required for an entity to operate a MURS transmitter if it is not a representative of a foreign government and if it uses the transmitter only in accordance with Section 95.1309 . There is no age restriction regarding who may operate an MURS transmitter . But the transmitter itself must be marked as MURS transmitter . FCC has this to say about that : A MURS transmitter must be certified by the FCC . A certified MURS transmitter has an identifying label placed on it by the manufacturer . There is technical reason as well which makes it impossible to use it on higher VHF frequencies : Above 137 MHz , the traditional modulation type is FM . Aviation VHF is AM . So even if you wanted to talk to MURS users , you would n't be able to do so normally due to different modulation types used . Another technical issue is frequency coverage . A-24 can transmit 118.000 MHz to 136.975 MHz . I do n't know if it 's possible to unlock it for extra coverage ( but I 'd be surprised is that was possible , due to use case ) , but with default frequency coverage you ca n't go high enough to reach MURS frequencies . UPDATE : I just checked and it seems that AM is actually allowed on MURS . So it is , and you can somehow unlock the A-24 to operate on those frequencies , you could technically speak to other AM MURS users , but again it would n't be legal due to licensing system used for MURS .
Yes...kind-of . There was <URL> which would allow you to program Garmin GPS systems ( GNS 430/530 ) , which was FAA-approved by STC for a good number of light General Aviation aircraft . While it was not capable of flying the plane by voice instruction it could be used to program a route into the GPS , which a coupled autopilot would then be able to fly . The VoiceFlight product has been discontinued as competition from the newer GTN 650/750 ( which require less knob-twiddling to program a route ) and other technologies like <URL> ate into the company 's business to the point where it was no longer viable to remain in business , but the core idea of voice technology in the cockpit has been proven possible ( and according folks who tried it , even practical ) . It may make another appearance some day .
As a plane climbs out , the cabin pressure lowers so that it equals the same pressure as being at about 5,000 feet , the altitude of Denver . What happens inside your ear is that the pressure in the middle ear reduces to match the 5,000 foot cabin pressure , and you might sometime feel your ears " pop , " just like going up in an elevator in a tall building . When the plane descends , the pressure in your middle ear will still be at 5,000 feet , but the pressure in the cabin will go down to sea level ( 0 feet ) , and you will feel this pressure on your eardrum , which can cause a lot of discomfort until the pressure equalizes . The pressure equalizes as air enters the <URL> tubes , which connect your middle ear to your nose and throat . The tube , however , is very narrow and can be blocked by inflammation or mucus due to a cold or other illness , and you wo n't be able to equalize the pressure . Flying with a cold can be very painful during descent . The amount of discomfort each passenger experiences is going to vary widely , even from flight-to-flight . For example , if the cabin altitude is 5,000 ft and the destination is Denver , then the cabin will not have to further pressurize . Some other factors are individual physiology ( some people will have bigger eustachian tubes than others ) , illness , ethnicity/gender/gift-of-gab ( some are more prone to talking than others , and talking can relieve the pressure ) , etc. . As a pilot , there are two things you can do : buy a plane with a lower cabin altitude . I recommend the Gulfstream 650 , which has a cabin pressure of 2,765 ft at an altitude of 41,000 MSL reduce the rates of your descents , which will give your ears a chance to equalize . ATC , however , <URL> , unless you are given " AT PILOTS DISCRETION . " There are a few different ways to equalize the pressure . The most effective is the <URL> , which is how some scuba divers equalize the pressure as they descend into the water . Alternatively , yawning , chewing gum , sucking on hard candy , or hyperextending your jaw may help . Little children are particularly susceptible to discomfort , and parents will give them gum or candy at the beginning of the descent .
The FAA standards seem to anticipate the use of firearms by people attempting to gain unlawful access to the cockpit . Opening locks with firearms is probably not as successful as TV would have you believe . Cockpit Door Standards Press Release -- FAA Sets New Standards for Cockpit Doors Release No . APA 01-02 January 11 , 2002 Contact : Alison Duquette Phone : 202-267-3462 WASHINGTON , DC In response to President Bush 's call to strengthen aircraft security , the U.S. Department of Transportation 's Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) today published new standards to protect cockpits from intrusion and small arms fire or fragmentation devices , such as grenades . The Aviation and Transportation Security Act authorizes the FAA to issue today 's final rule that requires operators of more than 6,000 airplanes to install reinforced doors by April 9 , 2003 . From <URL> This press release does n't actually say that the locks on the doors must resist being fired on using handguns but it is apparent that the scenarios envisaged included those where handguns were present . There are obviously other measures to prevent passengers carrying combat shotguns into the cabin surreptitiously . Guns and Locks In movies and television , a locked door , or a padlock on a cage is never an impediment so long as the Hero has bullets to spare . One or two shots is generally enough to destroy the lock , allowing the door to open . Unfortunately , in real life -- as shown by the MythBusters -- this requires a high powered gun at close range , which causes lots of very dangerous shrapnel . Lesser firearms , especially handguns may harmlessly bury rounds in even standard padlocks to little effect . Only SWAT teams and soldiers ever do this in real life , and it involves a shotgun , Kevlar body armor , specialized ammunition ( a powdered metal breaching round , often jokingly referred to as " Avon Calling " ) , and full face protection . Even then , the goal is not specifically to destroy the lock , but to destroy the surrounding door or the hinges . From <URL> Other references <URL>
The AIM gives good advice , but that is really all it is . It is acceptable methods of complying with the regulations , but you are not required to comply with what the AIM says . In questions of what you are required to do , especially in questions of whether you might be at risk for a violation , we want to look at the regulations in 14 CFR . <URL> states , in pertinent part : No person may : ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise [ ... ] -- ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; ( 2 ) Park or move an aircraft in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport unless the aircraft -- ( i ) Is clearly illuminated ; ( ii ) Has lighted position lights ; or ( iii ) is in an area that is marked by obstruction lights ; ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . Note : Position Lights are commonly called Nav Lights Anticollision Lights can include what are more commonly called Strobe Lights and Beacon Lights ( See AIM 4-3-23 ) Lets first look at what the above regulation says about operating requirements . Is your given scenario ( engine off , etc. ) an example of operating the aircraft ? <URL> gives the following definition of operate : Operate , with respect to aircraft , means use , cause to use or authorize to use aircraft , for the purpose ( except as provided in § 91.13 of this chapter ) of air navigation including the piloting of aircraft , with or without the right of legal control ( as owner , lessee , or otherwise ) . By that definition I would argue that towing , pushing , or otherwise moving an unoccupied aircraft with engine ( s ) shut off would not be operating that aircraft anymore than leaving the aircraft parked overnight would be operating it , since you are not using the aircraft for the purpose of air navigation . Thus I would say that you are not required to follow any rules that pertain to operating the aircraft , such as that any installed anticollision light be lighted . ( This is in contrast to an airliner pushing back with a load of passengers , flight crewmembers at their stations , electrical power on , APU running , etc. , which would be operating , since the aircraft is being used . ) This leaves us with the Park or move paragraph . This paragraph specifically pertains to " in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport " . What is a night flight operations area ? Absent any proffered definition , the plain reading of the phrase -- as I read it -- would be an area used , or subject to use , for flight operations at night . In other words , any public use airport with an apron or taxiway that is open to flight operations at night could and should be considered -- by my reading -- a night flight operations area . Whether the area is a movement or non-movement area should n't matter . Could someone else reasonably taxi past you ( or into you ! ) at night ? That 's probably a night flight operations area . Thus , for your given scenario , if you are pushing your aircraft back into a tie-down spot on an apron that is open to night flight operations , by regulation it must be either : a ) clearly illuminated ; b ) have lighted position lights ; or c ) be in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I typically see airport ramps clearly illuminated by large overhead lights . This clearly meets the first requirement . Another means of compliance would be to turn on an internal hanger light to clearly illuminate the airplane when you push an airplane in off a taxiway into a hanger . You are also good to go if you are in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I do n't think I have ever seen these demarcating an area where you would be pushing or towing an airplane ( I 'm thinking of those lighted construction barriers ) , but if you saw them I suppose you would know . In the absence of clear illumination or an area marked by obstruction lights , if you are going to park or move the airplane at night , you had better turn on the position lights . And this , I think , is where you could be at risk for a violation . Note that , even in that case , the requirement is for position lights , not the beacon . Unless the aircraft is being operated , there is no requirement that any installed anticollision light be lighted .
I 'm sure that the cabin pressure difference prevents this at altitude when the cabin is pressurized , due that they often slide inwards and then to the side . That being said , Boeing <URL> showing that it 's no problem flying with an open window on the 737 if say it opens on takeoff . You can close it assuming it 's not damaged or you can land with it . They also showed that the side window can be opened in flight in case for instance visibility is impaired through the main window , and while it hardly looks comfortable , it can be done . This assumes that the cabin is unpressurized . The sort of thing you might be thinking about is a <URL> , but I do n't think any aircraft have those on the cockpit windows .
A sport pilot license does indeed require a valid driver 's license OR a minimum third-class medical certificate . If you do n't have a medical certificate , you can not exercise sport pilot privileges until your driver 's license is reinstated .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
i passed my medical exam and it was good , this issue was n't a big problem at all even its not a problem .
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
In <URL> <URL> , the High Court of England and Wales held that , at common law , the right of a landowner to the airspace above their land was " to such height as was necessary for the ordinary use and enjoyment of his land and the structures upon it " . As another answer has suggested , the use of UK airspace is now regulated by statute . <URL> says : No action shall lie in respect of trespass or in respect of nuisance , by reason only of the flight of an aircraft over any property at a height above the ground which , having regard to wind , weather and all the circumstances of the case is reasonable , or the ordinary incidents of such flight , so long as the provisions of any Air Navigation Order and of any orders under section 62 above have been duly complied with and there has been no breach of section 81 below . In other words , you may fly an aircraft at a height that is reasonable , subject to any specific regulations . For example , rule 5 in <URL> prohibits low flying in certain circumstances , such as below 1,000 feet over a congested area of a city , although there are various exemptions to those rules . For the detail , consult the regulations . New regulations are due in early 2015 . What this means in terms of a landowner 's right is that : their rights do not extend beyond what is " necessary ... " in accordance with Bernstein of Leigh whatever the specific rules on aircraft may say additionally , the landowner 's rights are restricted by the CAA and the rules made under it , so that an aircraft that complies with the rules and flies no lower than is reasonable etc does not commit a trespass or nuisance .
Transport Canada has all the information <URL> for each FAA license type ( and type ratings ) ; the necessary forms and contacts are <URL> . These are the basic requirements for a private pilot , for example : 6.1 Conditions for Conversion - Private Pilot -- Aeroplane . ( 1 ) Must hold an FAA Private airman certificate with airplane category and class rating ( s ) . ( 1 ) Age : Must be at least 17 years of age . ( 2 ) Medical fitness : Must hold either a Category 1 or Category 3 TCCA medical . ( 3 ) Knowledge : Must pass the Conversion - Private Pilot Licence -- Aeroplane , ( FAAPA ) written examination on air laws and communications . Must be able to read , write and communicate in English or French . ( 4 ) Experience : Must provide proof of a minimum of 45 hours pilot flight time . ( 5 ) Skill : No additional practical flight test is required .
The license they are talking about is an FAA license issues on the basis of your Italian one , provided that license is up to an FAA standard . See @Pondlife 's answer for some links , and here 's one on the <URL> . The FAA license would be restricted to the privileges of your Italian one . For example , if you do not have privileges to fly at night on your Italian license then you would not be able to fly at night . If your Italian license defines the day as being shorter than the FAA you 'd have to use the Italian definition . To get one you have to show up in person at an FSDO unless the Italian FAA equivalent has an agreement in place where they can validate identity , etc. .
The short version is no the Stratus will not meet the requirements , and for several reasons . The final rule requires ADS-B OUT ( and the Stratus is only ADS-B IN ) that meets particular TSO requirements ( see below ) , and portable units will not . The FAA has an <URL> on their website which has a lot of great ADS-B information . The minimum equipment required to meet the mandate is addressed by : What equipment is required by the new rule ? The rule specifies ADS-B Out equipment compliant with either Technical Standard Order ( TSO ) - C154c ( Universal Access Transceiver ) or TSO-C166b ( 1090 ES ) . However , to operate in Class A airspace , aircraft are required to equip with avionics certified to TSO-C166b . The FAQ also specifically addresses the question of portable units and says that they will not be allowed : Will the FAA allow portable/handheld units , or will they have to be panel mounts only ? Installed transponders and GPS units must meet certification standards . Handheld devices and displays that serve only for situational awareness have more flexibility and are not certified installations . In order to comply with 14 CFR § 91.225 and 91.227 aircraft intended to fly in ADS-B airspace must have installed and certified equipment . Portable installations are not compliant to the rule and would only be usable for receiving FIS-B services for situational awareness . The FAA is in the early stages of investigating a portable device for glider aircraft .
end question
start question
Why would aircraft engines be mounted with " toe out " ?
<URL> The engines were toed out slightly to improve engine-out handling ; three tailfins were used to ensure that the aircraft could keep flying more or less straight if both engines on one wing went down . I belive it was done to keep the thrust more equal in the event of an outboard engine loss , i.e. they are inline with the direction of flight when an engine loss occurs . Keep in mind that at the time these planes were designed engine failure was a <URL> and the mentality was a bit different than it is now . If a little bit of toe out mounting took a speed toll but made the aircraft far more controlable in the event of an engine loss it was considered worth while . In modern multi-engine propellor aircraft <URL> ( left side and right side props spin oposite directions ) are generally employed to fix this problem and avoid the <URL> . I do belive that some single engine aircraft still do employ a slightly canted engine position for this reason .
Accumulators act as storage for flow . At times of peak flow demand , the accumulator delivers a large flow supply at nominal pressure until its oil has been used up , after which the maximum flow is the pump flow . The same functionality that a capacitor or a battery has in an electric system . If there are no accumulators installed : Peak hydraulic power is greatly reduced : peak flow supply equals the pump flow , and pressure drops when the pump supplies high flow . Pressure surges are high when the pump is running and demand suddenly stops , the accumulator evens out the pressure peak , again like how a capacitor functions . ( From @Gerry comment ) .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
Often times fuel injected engines can be difficult to start with the mixture rich , particularly if run recently and still hot . Following a priming procedure with the electric boost pump then cranking with the mixture at idle cutoff allows the engine to flush out fuel from the injector manifold until an optimal fuel air mixture is reached and the engine starts up . Quickly moving the mixture to full rich at this point will stabilize the engine at idle with an appropriate throttle setting .
Good question . Another name for the " position of the Zenith " would be the gravity vector . Which for an aircraft is <URL> ( shortest distance to reunite with terra firma ) . Note that it is necessary to subtract acceleration due to gravity from the vertical channel before performing the integration . -- <URL> So the answer is yes , the acceleration due to the gravity vector is corrected . Check the PDF for a detailed description and equations .
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
The fly-by-wire is absolutely vital for control of the aircraft , and the three dominating factors here are safety , safety and safety . Weight is not one of them . The fly-by-wire system is triple or quad redundant : instead of removing a set of cables , the manufacturers are installing 3 more cable looms , just to make sure that the system always works . <URL> Wires are safer than wireless ! . There are active transmitters and receivers in wireless systems , which can fail . Signal reception depends on the quality of the space between transmitter &amp; receiver : can the signal always penetrate the aluminium bulkhead ? What happens to the wireless signal when flying past airport radar or in the weather radar field of another aircraft ? Shielded wires are passive and relatively immune to electro-magnetic radiation , and are the means of choice for such a safety critical system . Update The OP was on fly-by-wire . In a sense , the flight control system is the most safety critical system on board and must be immediately available at all times . The <URL> in a comment reports on the progress of on-board wireless communication , for systems with a less critical safety aspect : Examples of Potential WAIC Applications Low Data Rate , Interior Applications ( LI ) : Sensors : Cabin Pressure - Smoke Detection - Fuel Tank/Line -- Proximity Temperature - EMI Incident Detection - Structural Health Monitoring - Humidity/Corrosion Detection Controls : Emergency Lighting - Cabin Functions Low Data Rate , Outside Applications ( LO ) : Sensors : Ice Detection - Landing Gear Position Feedback - Brake Temperature - Tire Pressure - Wheel Speed - Steering Feedback - Flight Controls Position Feedback - Door Sensors Engine Sensors - Structural Sensors High Data Rate , Interior Applications ( HI ) : Sensors : Air Data - Engine Prognostic - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Images/Video Comm. : Avionics Communications Bus - FADEC Aircraft Interface - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Audio / Video ( safety-related ) High Data Rate , Outside Applications ( HO ) : Sensors : Structural Health Monitoring Controls : Active Vibration Control <URL> From the same presentation : An A380 has 5,700 kg of wires on board , and 30 % of them are potential candidates for a wireless substitute . So wireless communication on board of aircraft does make sense , starting with the non-safety critical systems first .
Low density altitudes mean your engine generates more power , and your wings generate more lift . Everything is better with low density altitudes , right ? The potential danger in low density altitudes is that your engine generates more power than it can handle . Even without exceeding the maximum rated RPM and manifold pressure , you can exceed the rated power of an engine under low density altitude conditions . At low temperatures the air becomes denser . At standard sea level conditions air has a temperature of 15 degrees Celcius and a density of 1.225 kg per cubic meter . When the temperature is -30 degrees Celcius , the density increases to 1.452 kg per cubic meter . The equivalent altitude where this density is found under standard atmosphere conditions would be about -5900 ft. This is called the density altitude . When air with these properties enters the combustion chamber of your engine and is combusted to the normal exhaust temperature it expands ( increases in pressure ) far more that air normally would , resulting in excessive power . This <URL> says the following about the risks associated with low density altitudes : Do not overboost supercharged engines . This is easy to do because at very low density altitude , the engine " thinks " it is operating as much as 8,000 feet below sea level in certain situations . Care should be exercised in operating normally aspirated engines . Power output increases at about 1 % for each ten degrees of temperature below that of standard air . At -40 degree F , an engine will develop 10 percent more than rated power even though RPM and MP limits are not exceeded .
Basically , you put wheels on the skid and tow them . In some cases , towing wheels are attached to the skids ( which usually have sleeves in them for mounting ) , and a tow bar is attached to the front ( one or two sets of wheels may be attached to the skids ) , which is then towed by a vehicle . <URL> Image from <URL> There are also specialised tow carts available for helicopters , which basically grip the skids ( usually in a couple of places on either side ) and lift them up , after which the helicopter can be moved by the operator by controlling the cart . <URL> Image from <URL>
Attempting a tight turn , while low and slow , is an almost certain recipe for disaster . Your first option of landing with a tailwind is possibly preferable - there is no inherent danger landing with a tailwind - it 'll extend your landing , and is not ideal . However , it is much safer than trying to maneuver into a position with a headwind with only part of the runway remaining . And with a short runway to start with ( if that was the case ) you might not have enough distance to land safely anyway . There is a third option , with the setup you describe , which is to completly disregard the ( seemingly ) obvious runway close by and look for a suitable area to land in front - a field , a highway , a beach - any of the usualy places you might make an emergency landing in the case of an engine failure . ( Disclaimer : My experience is with single engine propeller aircraft , but I am fairly sure the mantra of Aviate , Navigate , Communicate applies to all aircraft types . Really , in this situation its only the aviate that is relevant )
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
The sprays are ( usually ) insecticides used to prevent the spread of invasive species and diseases . " The process of ' disinsection ' is required under the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) on flights to and from certain destinations to prevent infectious and contagious diseases carried by insects and other volatile bodies . Rules established by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) require that disinsection does not injure or cause discomfort to passengers or crew . These rules permit the use of certain insecticides , which have the approval of and are recommended by the WHO based on their effectiveness and safety . " From the <URL>
Can ? Of course they can . Does it make sense ? No , it does not . A VTOL needs thrust at least equal to its weight . That is much more than a fixed-wing aircraft ( HTOL ) needs . Airliners have lift-to-drag ratio around 18 -- 20 . That is in clean configuration ; in landing configuration it might be about half ( ~ 10 ) and we need twice as much thrust in case an engine fails , so around 1/4 weight . So a VTOL would need 4 times as much thrust as a HTOL . Likely more , because the craft would still have to be capable of reasonably controlled landing in case of engine failure . And while rotorcraft can do that by autorotation and pilot of Harrier or F-35B can simply eject , jet-powered civilian VTOL would only have the remaining engines for it . Now fortunately thrust and power are only indirectly related . To create thrust , force must be applied to the air . This force accelerates air , giving it some momentum and some kinetic energy . Thrust is ( change of ) momentum per time and momentum is mass time velocity while power is ( change of ) energy per time and energy is 1/2 mass times speed squared . So we can produce a lot of thrust with little power by accelerating a lot of air by a little . Which means large propeller : a rotor . That 's how helicopters get enough lift/thrust with reasonably small engine . Unfortunately rotors are not very practical for flying fast . One would also be rather difficult to tilt . That 's why V-22 Osprey and Augusta-Westland AW603 use a compromise that is somewhere between ; large enough to still have good efficiency in hover and small enough to be possible to tilt . What would definitely not be efficient for hover is a jet though . Jets are small and ca n't affect that much air ; what they can is accelerate it a lot . That is necessary for flying fast , but it is terribly inefficient when flying slowly . Military jets do n't care . They want so powerful engine to fly very fast anyway and they do n't care for efficiency much as decisive edge in combat is worth a lot of money . But for civilian transport the small advantage of being able to land closer to destination would not outweigh the disadvantage of being several times more expensive to operate . Flying the long distance with HTOL to a nearby airport and , if the destination is not reachable by car , hiring a helicopter just for the final part of the trip ends up being a lot cheaper .
It can happen very quickly . I do n't have exact numbers , but an acquaintance had this happen in a Cessna 172 and the entire tank was emptied in just a few minutes - the amount of time it took to do one circuit of the pattern and land . The fuel cap was not in the filler neck on departure , and was hanging from the chain , banging against the wing . The moral of that story is : never assume the fuelers put the cap back in . I 've personally flown an older Cherokee 160 that had a loose fuel tank gasket . When doing slow flight , the pressure above the wing was so strong that it would start to ooze fuel from the cap . Fuel would flow in a rather frightening amount back along the wing , and that 's with the cap still on .
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
Unlikely . The extra fuel burned would cost a lot more than the required Avionics upgrade . Both the 75/767 would be well below optimum cruise level .
As Farhan noted , the rules are essentially the same as <URL> . Inspections and Maintenance In addition to your required annual inspection you will also be required to complete a 100-hour inspection every 100-hours of operation . Insurance You will need a commercial insurance policy which allows you to rent the aircraft . This policy covers the aircraft , so you will also need ( or at least want ) general liability insurance and all the other trimmings that come with operating a business . Everything Else This is a broad category . There 's no way we can cover it all . You will however need to consider : Maintaining an adequate stock of " service spares " to maintain the aircraft . Tires , light bulbs , oil , oil filters , 5606 hydraulic fluid , etc. - As an individual owner you may be OK with being down for a week waiting for parts , but as a rental operation that will lose you customers . Having a relationship with a mechanic to do the maintenance Owner-Performed Preventive Maintenance goes out the window when the aircraft becomes a rental - you may still be able to assist your mechanic , but you can no longer do &amp; sign-off on things like oil changes . Vetting your renters Rental aircraft at an FBO/Flight School live a hard life . If you like your plane and want it to stay in good condition you 'll need to vet your renters a bit more thoroughly than " You have a pilot 's license and you went around the pattern without hitting anything " - Find the kind of pilots who will police their trash from the cabin , lean the mixture appropriately , etc. .
It 's mostly harmless in a nose wheel configuration . You quickly blow all tires and slide along the runway on your wheel hubs until the aircraft comes to a rest . Crosswind will make the experience worse , because at lower speed you have less rudder authority and the aircraft might leave the runway . If only one side is locked you will risk a ground loop . Here it is best to step on the other brake so both cause the same braking force . But this is peanuts when compared to a tailwheel configuration . Here the consequence is a headstand right after you put some load on the wheels , which can be right at touchdown when you come down with some sink speed . Depending on the speed of the aircraft when this happens and the length of the fuselage nose , the aircraft might even flip on its back . Now this is sure to ruin your day . I 've witnessed this once with a Polish <URL> which landed on soft ground - nothing more . The pilot climbed out unhurt from his inverted position , but damage to the aircraft was extensive . This was the occasion when I learned the worst Polish cursing ever . If only one side is locked in case of a taildragger , I am unsure what will happen first : Ground loop or headstand . Details depend on the wheel track and the attitude at touchdown . Be sure to touchdown at the lowest possible speed and with the highest nose-up incidence possible to increase the resistance of the aircraft against flippig over . Unload the locked wheel with ailerons , so you touch down on the working wheel only , but make sure that you do this with as little sideslip angle as possible . Flying a gentle turn while touching down will help - just place the touchdown point at the moment when the aircraft is aligned with the runway ( I know - easier said than done ) . Touching down on one main wheel of a taildragger with some lateral speed by sideslipping into the direction of the working wheel will quickly roll the aircraft into the direction of the lateral speed , which helps to unload the locked wheel but might end up in a three-point landing : One wheel , wingtip and fuselage nose . Again , this is sure to ruin your day . That is what is colloquially called a " headstand " ( Picture <URL> )
<URL> ( <URL> ; arrows and CG icon are my additions ) P-47 side drawing . The thrust has a bigger moment arm around the tires contact points compared to the weight . It wo n't nose over below a certain RPM ( it will be specified in the training ) . Below that RPM : The weight will counter the thrust The <URL> will produce downward force on the horizontal stabilizer Applied brakes <URL> the rotation of the wheels ( airframe rotating around wheels ) From a <URL> for the comparable big-engined <URL> , the narrator says : You ca n't gun this engine to full takeoff RPM and manifold pressure while holding the plane with the brakes , if you exceed 2,000 RPM the tail will lift and you risk nosing over . Answer is yes it can happen . Note : for comparison , the <URL> is 2,700 for the Hellcat .
The biggest single reason for the decline of flying boats was the proliferation of long runways during World War II . The infrastructure advantage of flying boats -- the ability to operate heavy aircraft without long runways -- was no longer relevant . Large airfields were a result of the long-range heavy bomber campaigns in Europe and Asia . Century of Flight has <URL> that goes a bit more in depth .
end question
start question
Is it possible to revive a pilot who has had a medical condition in a seated position in a small aircraft ?
I 'm going to preface this by saying I 'm not a doctor , however I am trained in first aid and CPR . If you are asking whether it would be possible to revive someone who is in respiratory or cardiac arrest to the point where they could fly again then the answer is absolutely not . The movies make it seem like you can give CPR and 2 minutes later the person is running around shooting guns , however that 's very far from the truth . CPR and rescue breathing are techniques which can , if done properly , keep someone 's blood moving enough that radical emergency medicine may save their life . CPR cracks and/or breaks ribs and can cause internal injuries even when it 's done right , rescue breathing does n't generally cause injury , however anyone who has needed either will require days , weeks or even months of intensive care and recovery . As to whether it would be possible to administer CPR or rescue breathing to someone in a light airplane then I would say yes , with extreme difficulty and a low chance of success . CPR requires a lot of force , you use the full weight of your upper body concentrated on one single point on the person 's chest , unless you could lay the person flat on a hard surface you 'd probably be wasting your time , so if the seats reclined a person in the back seat may be able to lean over and do it , although that 's extremely chancy of working due to the angle and the cushioning of the seat . Rescue breathing is possible with a seated person , provided you can open the airway , getting the angle on that would be very tricky in the constrained area of a small cockpit . Again , if the seat could recline a person in the back would have a better chance of doing this . Most importantly to remember is that if the sole pilot dies or becomes incapacitated someone else has to fly the airplane . Struggling to get into position to perform CPR or mouth to mouth on a seated person would be a great way to snag the stick and send the airplane out of control . If there 's a back seater by all means let them give it a shot , but your best bet at survival is getting control of the airplane and calling ATC for someone to talk you through things , it 's happened before and has a remarkably good survival rate .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
They are basically window-shaped screens , displaying a feed from a camera so the middle aisle suits ( where the alternative is a wall ) passengers can enjoy the " view " . The most interesting thing to me are the virtual windows . First Class passengers in the middle suite will have a set of " windows " like everyone else , only theirs will show images from an outside camera . <URL>
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
I assume the hole has been properly deburred , otherwise you could suffer cuts on the sharp edges of the hole . What happens else depends on altitude and flight speed . At low level , the outside temperature should be tolerable and the pressure difference between inside and outside should be small , so your hand will be fine . At higher altitude , outside air temperature can drop to -60 ° C rsp . -76 ° F . Since air density is lower , the aircraft will travel fast ( approx . 250 m/s rsp . 560 Mph in case of an airliner ) , and convective cooling at the hole will soon cause hypothermia and frost bites . Also , inside pressure is 0.6 bar rsp 8.8 lb/sq-in higher than outside pressure , and the exposed skin on your palm will feel this as a sucking sensation . I further assume that you need to remove all cabin insulation to put your hand over that hole , so your whole hand will be exposed to the airplane 's metal skin which will have the same temperature as outside air . If the hand is dry and does not freeze to the metal skin , you might manage to keep it in place for a few seconds , but it will hurt . Keep it in contact with the metal skin longer and you will suffer progressive frostbite . The part of the skin which covers the hole should suffer less , since convective cooling should be less intense than the thermal conductivity of the metal skin , which will quickly pull all body heat from your hand where it touches the metal . The pressure difference will not damage your hand , but the low temperature will .
Airline flight crews generally consist of at least 2 pilots . One pilot is designated as pilot flying , the other is the pilot not flying , observing instruments and flight parameters . If required , pilots can use <URL> : Flight Crew in-Seat Rest This is the process whereby pilots may take short periods of sleep ( naps ) , while temporarily relieved of operational duties in accordance with carefully prescribed ' controlled rest ' procedures , when part of a two-man operating crew of an in-flight aeroplane . This is not communicated to ATC and only allowed with two pilots present on the flight-deck . It is prohibited to have both pilots participate in in-Seat Rest at the same time . See also these related questions : <URL> <URL>
Imagine you have a 60 knot headwind . You have to fly an indicated airspeed of 60 knots and you can hover over the ground . If you want you can try it out in flight sim , it makes lots of fun . That 's called a STOL .
Best case scenario : You 're straight and level , on frequency with some form of human being , there 's no immediate danger and you have the know-how to transmit . In that case , that human will provide you with everything they possibly can to help you . Most important thing for you to do is keep the aircraft away from clouds , away from terrain and not panic . You 'll probably be in an aircraft that is more-or-less easy to fly in this situation . Most GA aircraft are quite stable and will not be a beast to control . Once talking to ATC they will tell you to set your transponder to a number . You should find somewhere a 4-digit readout with a knob below/above each digit . Set the number indicated to help ATC identify you easily . Otherwise , look around you for big landmarks ( Mountains , Lakes , even a large Church/Cathedral ) as one of the first things ATC will want to do is work out where you are . That 's best case ; let 's look at some alternatives . You 're out of range of the tuned frequency on the radio , or there is no response : Tune 121.5 MHz , this is the <URL> . Someone will be monitoring this channel and be able to give you further advice - if nothing else a local ATC channel to tune . Failing this see if your pilot has a chart handy , he may have drawn his intended route on it - look along that route for anything that looks like a frequency to tune into the radio . Aircraft is climbing , or descending : Get the aircraft into safe , level flight . Remember controls work in the opposite sense to what you might expect ( probably not if you 've ever played any flight simulator ) . If the engine is roaring reduce power slightly . If you appear to be losing altitude with the nose on the horizon increase power slightly . Do everything with tiny incremental changes . Try not to fiddle too much with controls , only what is necessary . Aircraft is heading directly for a cloud/out to the sea/towards a heavily built up area/a big airport : Turn 180 degrees - do n't try to turn too quickly , it should take roughly 30 seconds to 1 minute to complete this turn . There are courses which are aimed at non-pilots who regularly fly in the right hand seat . Here 's some interesting reading : <URL>
For the GA fleet , there is some historical precedent operating here . Years ago , engines were much less reliable than they are today . Dragging it in generally means that you can not glide it in if you have a complete power failure . This translates to saying in the event of an engine failure , you are landing off airport with limited selection of landing sites ( your altitude is low as you are now below pattern altitude ) . So if you are flying behind an old Curtis OX-5 in your Jenny , a gliding approach to landing was recommended back in the day . Engines are much more reliable today . After an analysis of landing accidents , the FAA determined that a stabilized approach to landing is less likely to result in an accident , and they changed their guidance accordingly . Stabilized approaches are partial power-on landings . Some old timers and some old time CFIs reject the FAA 's statistical analysis and still teach/fly glide-it-in landings . Properly executed , both approaches to landing are safe . It is just that the FAA thinks that stabilized approaches are safer given engines commonly in use today . It is also true that virtually all airlines require stabilized approaches in their operating specs , and that a go around is mandatory if the approach is not stabilized . With this in mind , flight schools that aspire to send their graduates to the majors will all teach stabilized approaches .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
The only direction a ( fixed wing ) aircraft can move using the flight controls is forward . So , it is the forward visibility that is important . The front of the aircraft is the best place for this purpose . The limited visibility in other cases are reasonably over come by using extra cameras or <URL> and markings in the ground . The Airbus A80 , for example , has three cameras , one each in the nose , belly and the tail , which can be viewed in the screen by the pilot . <URL> Source : onemileatatime.boardingarea.com The closest any aircraft has come to be flown using a VR headset is the AN/AAQ -37 electro-optical Distributed Aperture System ( DAS ) which is being used in the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II . The EO/DAS consists of six high resolution Infrared sensors flush-mounted around the aircraft to afford 360-degree , spherical ( 4 $ \ pi $ steradian ) coverage , basically <URL> . <URL> Source : alternathistory.org.ua Each of these sensors collect data in different directions and the on-board computer ' stitches together ' these images ( and data from EOTS and Radar ) and projects them onto the pilot 's Helmet Mounted Display System ( HMDS ) , making it the only modern combat aircraft without a HUD . <URL> Source : brucesterling.tumblr.com However , there are issues with using these in a commercial airliner : They are costly - around $ 400,000 ( <URL> ) apiece and non-interchangeable ; while this ( situation awareness ) could be priceless in combat scenarios , I do n't see commercial airliners shelling out this amount of money to replace a system that works pretty well . The amount of computing power required is enormous . Reportedly , the DAS system collects about a terabyte of data per hour . For aircraft which fly most of their time in a predetermined altitude and heading , this amount of data flow and computing power is not required . Note that the system is not yet fully operational . There are <URL> like latency , ' green ' glow , jittery image , resolution issues etc. - reportedly solved , though some pilots say they <URL> .
Yes . One ' official ' example is from the FAA 's <URL> for land and seaplanes , which includes these tasks for seaplanes : Task H : Glassy Water Approach and Landing [ ... ] Task J : Rough Water Approach and Landing The FAA 's <URL> also uses it ; Chapter 6 is called " Seaplane Operations - Landings " . Interestingly , the word " landing " itself is n't defined in the FAA 's <URL> or in <URL> ( the US air regulations general definitions ) . Presumably it 's considered to be too ' obvious ' to require a definition .
You question is a question of rules of engagement . Shooting down a downed pilot in a dogfight is not only not OK , but also illegal . According to <URL> , No person parachuting from an aircraft in distress shall be made the object of attack during his descent . Of course , war is war and this kind of attacks <URL> by pilots of almost all air forces , though it should be noted that in most cases , this practice was specifically prohibited by their high commands .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
This is called <URL> , most aircraft can do it , but it is not done very often . In a jet aircraft , the three main problems are : Reverse thrust tends to throw a lot of debris into the air because the exhaust is deflected to the sides and up and down too . This debris can damage the engine itself , other things on and around the aircraft or injure someone on the ramp . It is less of a problem for aircraft with tail-mounted engines ( so DC-9s often used powerback ) , but that engine configuration is not used as much any more in transport aircraft , as it is less aerodynamically efficient . A related problem is that the compressor might suck in its own hot exhaust gases . This might lead to temperature-induced damages in the last ( high-pressure ) stages of the compressor and health issues for passengers , since the air conditioning system works with bleed air from the compressor . Reverse thrust is rather inefficient on jet engines , so it uses a lot of fuel . As <URL> , the pilot has to be careful using the brakes during powerback : the main wheels are very close behind the centre of gravity , so harder braking can lift the nose wheel , causing the pilot to lose control and even causing damage to the tail if it hits the ground ( " tail-tipping " ) . So a tug is both cheaper and safer . In propeller aircraft , reverse is more efficient and does not throw up as much debris , so it is sometimes used . But a tug is still preferred because transport aircraft do n't have any rear visibility , so the pilots ca n't see where they are taxiing . With tug the driver can see behind the aircraft , and a ground marshaller walks along side each wingtip with an intercom connected to the plane . Lastly , since aircraft are able to turn almost on the spot using differential braking and thrust and 180-degree nosewheel steering , at airports with few facilities there is generally enough space around the aircraft to permit the pilot to reverse out easily .
The FAA has some rules pending about this , you can read <URL> but for drones under 55 LBS one of the proposed rules is , Must yield right-of-way to other aircraft , manned or unmanned . and since you bring up class E it should be noted that Operations in Class B , C , D and E airspace are allowed with the required ATC permission . if/when this goes through it looks like its the drone operators fault since the plane had the right of way According to the <URL> they state that , ( 4 ) the aircraft is operated in a manner that does not interfere with and gives way to any manned aircraft ; this is pretty much a blanket statement that maned aircraft have the right of way but the FAA handles most things on a case by cases basis so in the end of the day it could go either way .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
<URL> notes that medical oxygen containers - whether for the storage , generation , or dispensing of oxygen - must be : 135.91 . a. 1 . i Of an approved type or in conformity with the manufacturing , packaging , marking , labeling , and maintenance requirements of title 49 CFR parts 171 , 172 , and 173 , except § 173.24 ( a ) ( 1 ) 135.91 . a. 1 . ii When owned by the certificate holder , maintained under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program ; 135.91 . a. 1 . iii Free of flammable contaminants on all exterior surfaces ; and 135.91 . a. 1 . iv Appropriately secured . 135.91 . a. 2 When the oxygen is stored in the form of a liquid , the equipment must have been under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program since its purchase new or since the storage container was last purged . 135.91.a.3.i-ii When the oxygen is stored in the form of a compressed gas as defined in title 49 CFR 173.300 ( a ) When owned by the certificate holder , it must be maintained under its approved maintenance program ; and The pressure in any oxygen cylinder must not exceed the rated cylinder pressure . 135.91 . a. 4 The pilot in command must be advised when the equipment is on board , and when it is intended to be used . 135.91 . a. 5 The equipment must be stowed , and each person using the equipment must be seated , so as not to restrict access to or use of any required emergency or regular exit , or of the aisle in the passenger compartment . 135.91 . b No person may smoke and no certificate holder may allow any person to smoke within 10 feet of oxygen storage and dispensing equipment carried under paragraph ( a ) of this section . 135.91.c No certificate holder may allow any person other than a person trained in the use of medical oxygen equipment to connect or disconnect oxygen bottles or any other ancillary component while any passenger is aboard the aircraft 135.91 . d Paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section does not apply when that equipment is furnished by a professional or medical emergency service for use on board an aircraft in a medical emergency when no other practical means of transportation ( including any other properly equipped certificate holder ) is reasonably available and the person carried under the medical emergency is accompanied by a person trained in the use of medical oxygen . Part 91 does not seem to speak to medical oxygen Additionally , a <URL> notes that : In the DOT final rule , section 382.133 generally requires that air carriers conducting passenger service must permit someone with a disability to use an FAA-approved portable oxygen concentrator ( POC ) on all flights ( on aircraft originally designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 19 seats ) unless the device does not meet applicable FAA requirements for medical portable electronic devices ( M-PED ) and does not display a manufacturer 's label that indicates the device meets those FAA requirements . The page goes on to list approved oxygen containers . So , it seems that the FAA does not consider POCs to be hazardous , so long as they meet certain FAA approval standards . ( If you are asking about General Aviation requirements , I would assume an FAA-certified POC is okay to bring on a GA flight as well )
end question
start question
What 's the difference between TWEBs and TIBS ?
NOAA has a great guide on their website called <URL> which covers these ( and more ) ! They actually describe it better than I could . The short version though is that TIBS is a telephone weather service while TWEB is a recorded route briefing that you can listen to while airborne . Both are used for supplemental information and do n't replace an official briefing . TIBS Telephone Information Briefing Service TWEB Transcribed Weather Enroute Broadcast PATWAS Pilot 's Automatic Telephone Weather Answering Service TRANSCRIBED WEATHER BROADCASTs ( TWEB ) are continuous broadcasts of recorded NOTAM and weather information prepared for a 50-nautical mile wide zone along a route and for selected terminal areas . TWEBs are broadcast over selected NDB and VOR facilities and generally contain a weather synopsis , in-flight advisories , route and/or local vicinity forecasts . Winds Aloft Forecasts , current weather reports , NOTAMs , and special notices . TWEB outlets are listed below by state : PILOT 'S AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE WEATHER ANSWERING SERVICE ( PATWAS ) , and the TELEPHONE INFORMATION BRIEFING SERVICE ( TIBS ) , provide continuous recordings of weather and aeronautical information . The information may include area and/or route briefings , airspace procedures , and special announcements . Telephone numbers for PATWAS and TIBS locations are found in the Airport/Facility Directory . TWEBs , PATWAS , and TIBS are for preflight or inflight planning and should not be considered a substitute for formal preflight briefings .
The primary difference is packaging , which saves space and weight . The ARINC 704A IRU is a 4 MCU size LRU . Likewise , the ARINC 706 ADC is also a 4 MCU unit . The ARINC 738A ADIRS combines both functions into a single 4 MCU LRU . Though the ADIRS also includes remotely mounted Air Data Modules ( ADM ) which reduce the amount of pitot/static plumbing . Functionally , the ADIRS performs the same functions as the separate IRS and ADS . A big drawback to the older ADS was the need to run the pitot and static lines all the way to the LRU . These lines are a maintenance headache , requiring multiple connections all of which have the potential to leak . The ADMs can be mounted near the pitot and static sources significantly reducing the plumbing . The ADM converts the pressures to digital signals passed to the ADIRU via ARINC 429 or similar data bus . This simplifies installation , maintenance , and weighs less . It should be noted that newer aircraft are moving to even newer architectures . The Boeing 787 dispensed with ADIRS and went with the Goodrich SmartProbes for air data and an Earth Reference System ( ERS ) to replace the IRU . The Goodrich SmartProbes do away with pitot/static plumbing entirely by incorporating the pressure conversion in the probe base . They also electrically cross-connect the probes to perform the ADC function with no separate LRU . The ERS addresses the FAA/EASA concerns over common mode faults in the IRU by using an IRU/AHRS mixed sensor architecture . In each of the two ERS , the IRU acts as the primary reference with the AHRS acting as a monitor . The key is that the IRU and AHRS use different hardware and software so that a common design flaw ca n't affect both and cause an undetected failure . It 's just evolution in the function of the aircraft sensors . They do what they need to do . The big demand from Boeing , Airbus , et al , is to reduce size , weight , power consumption , and cost .
Fuel The fuel consumption of the A380 is about 11 metric tonnes per hour . With a fuel price of <URL> , this results in \ $ 11000 per flight hour . Amortization An A380 will cost about \ $ 350M . The aircraft will be used for about 25 to 30 years , but let 's assume the amortization period is about 20 years with a residual value of \ $ 50M . With an interest rate of 5 % , you would pay about \ $ 24M per year . That is about \ $ 2740 per hour , or \ $ 0.76 per second , flying or not . Assuming a usage of 60 % , taking into account turn around times at the gate and maintenance downtime , it boils down to \ $ 3915 per flight hour . Crew Captain costs <URL> . Let 's assume they fly about 60 hours per month , the combined flight deck crew cost is about \ $ 350 per flight hour for the base salary . Another \ $ 80 needs to be added for allowances bringing the total to \ $ 430 per flight hour . Cabin crew rate would be around $ 40 per hour , so for 20 crew the cost will be \ $ 800 per flight hour . Also allowances for overnight stays and hotel costs need to be taken into account Airport charges These vary extremely between airports . You can basically break the costs down into costs related to the aircraft , the passengers and various taxes by the government . Aircraft cost usually are related to the Maximum Take-off Mass ( MTOM ) of the aircraft and the noise category . A Boeing 747-400 , while less heavy than an A380 , will in some cases be more expensive due to the higher noise level . Many airports differentiate between peak and off-peak hour landings . I ca n't find accurate data for the A380 but an old table that I have for the Boeing 747-400 suggest that total the cost vary between about \ $ 6000 to \ $ 25000 . Overflight charges Fees are levied by countries whose territory is flown over , mainly to cover ATC cost . The cost is typically based on the distance flown and the MTOW . For a 747-400ER over Europe , the fee is on average <URL> . Assuming an average speed of about 900km/h , the hourly cost is about 1300EUR/h . These costs are lower over the high seas and over the US . Rough total Based on the above , the total will be between \ $ 22,000 and \ $ 41,000 per hour .
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
A heading ( in the general case of moving " forward " ) is the direction your nose is pointed in . This may not be your course ( <URL> ) . Headings are measured from onboard a traveling vehicle or object ( e.g. from the cockpit of an aircraft or the bridge of a ship at sea ) . An azimuth is a bearing , more precisely a compass bearing from a specific point of observation like a radar station . ( The " North " used as a reference may be either magnetic or true depending on the system you 're working with , but for purposes of this discussion it does n't matter . ) Often the point of observation is fixed ( ground radar , a control tower , an artillery spotter , etc. ) , though it need not be as long as the observation can be mapped to a compass bearing somehow . Bonus Answer : The " O'Clock " positions are an informal type of relative bearing <URL> : The 360-degree circle is broken up into 12 chunks ( 30 degrees each ) for easier scanning , with " 12 O'Clock " being directly in front of you and " 6 O'Clock " directly behind . An important caveat to be aware of is that when ATC provides a " clock bearing " for traffic it 's relative to the aircraft 's course ( 12 O'Clock is aligned with the aircraft 's track over the ground as shown on the radar ) . Depending on wind there may be considerable variation between your course ( direction of travel ) and your heading ( direction the nose is pointing ) , so the called traffic may appear in a different location when you look out your window .
Your friend is right . Elevator trim is n't setting a pitch , it is compensating for control forces on the elevator , which vary with speed . If you are trimmed for level flight at 100 kias and reduce power the plane will initially slow . As it slows the trim will cause a nose-down moment causing the plane to pitch down . Given no input , the plane will equilibrate at whatever nose-down pitch is needed to regain the forces it was trimmed for , which means speeding back up to 100 kias . You are correct that to maintain 100 kias with reduced power the nose should be lowered , but the trim will take care of that for you . You might have a misconception about how trim works , based on your argument . A typical trim setup in light airplanes is essentially another control surface on the elevator : <URL> The elevator is the large control surface and that smaller control surface is the elevator trim . When you adjust the pitch trim you are adjusting this trim tab which provides a force on the elevator that counters aerodynamic forces . This is why the airplane responds in pitch to maintain constant aerodynamic forces ( e.g. constant indicated airspeed ) for a given trim setting . You can test this in the airplane easily . Take your plane up to the altitude you practice maneuvers at , set 75 % power ( or some other number ) and trim for straight and level . Add power and watch the plane climb , decrease power and watch it descent , both without touching the trim . Go back to straight and level and trimmed and accelerate without climbing -- note you are having to retrim as your speed increases . Decelerate without descending -- note you are retrimming as your speed decreases .
The FAA ETOPS certification requires a certain standards fromboth the airline ( the operator ) and the aircraft ( the manufacturer ) . As far as the manufacturers are concerned , the ETOPS certification is given for a particular aircraft-engine combination satisfying certain requirements . The <URL> Section A deals with the Airplane-Engine Type Design Approval . According to the document , the type approval involves a two step process : First , the FAA determines that airplane systems meet certain design standards for safe operations during an airplane diversion . Some of these requirements are , The aircraft should have at least three independent electrical generators . Auxiliary Power unit ( APU ) ( when required ) can start after the airplane has been cold-soaked for several hours and can run reliably for the remainder of the flight . System safety analyses have to show that expected system failures will not prevent safe landing at a diversion airport . Systems with time limited capabilities , which typically is cargo fire suppression , need to have the capacity to support a maximum length diversion , including a 15-minute allowance for a hold or go-around at the diversion airport The second part of the approval process is an evaluation of engine in - flight shutdowns and other significant airplane system failures that have occurred while the airplane-engine combination has been in service . The aircraft-engine combination should have at-least 250,000 engine-hours for evaluation , though this can be reduced with compensating factors . The airplane-engine combination should maintain a target IFSD ( In Flight Shut Down , defined as " When an engine ceases to function ( when the airplane is airborne ) and is shut down , however briefly , whether self induced , flightcrew initiated or caused by an external influence . " ) rate at or below 0.02 per 1,000 engine-hours for 180min ETOPS approval . The manufacturer should also demonstrate that flying with OEI does n't cause undue stresses to the aircrew and is safe for the airframe . The ETOPS design approval has to be applied for with FAA and obtained after the relevant processes . Thus , the same aircraft will not have ETOPS approval if the engine is different or even the same aircraft-engine combination wo n't have ETOPS approval if used by another airline or if no certification was sought . There is another method of getting ETOPS approval called the ' early ' ETOPS approval which ... takes a systems approach to the development of an airplane and engine . ... an applicant must demonstrate that the design flaws on previously designed airplanes are not present in the new airplane . The applicant must also consider how the maximum length flight and diversion affect the design and function of airplane systems to ensure that they have the capability and reliability for safe ETOPS flight . After ETOPS certified , the airplane-engine combination and the operator are under continuous monitoring with the certificate being withdrawn in case of lapses or IFSD goes above the target rate and the manufacturer 's corrective action does not eliminate the unsafe condition . As far as the LAX-Hawaii incident is concerned , according to <URL> , both aircrafts ( the ' correct ' ETOPS airplane , A321H and the wrong one sent , A321S ) had the same configuration , but There are two small differences in terms of equipment to allow ETOPS certification . Since you ca n't divert for medical [ on a Hawaii bound flight ] , you 're required to carry extra medical oxygen on board and an extra fire suppression canister There are also reports that the ( ETOPS certified ) A321H <URL> , which the ( non ETOPS certified ) A321S did n't have , though the AA spokesperson had said that the fuel tanks and range were the same .
Acrobatic is being incorrectly used , although it is slightly more complicated than that . " Aerobatic " refers specifically to flight , and " acrobatic " refers specifically to feats of the human body , so referring to an aircraft as performing acrobatics is wrong . That said , <URL> and sounds nearly identical , so it 's an understandable and relatively common error .
Actually , " stay in the pattern " is non-standard phraseology and should n't be used , even though it means the same thing as " <URL> . Specifying the direction is n't required but it is a good idea to ensure that everybody is thinking the same thing .
Going around is a process , pulling up is an action . When ATC tells you to go around or you say you are going around it means you are initiating a set of actions to abort an approach . Pulling up is a single action , i.e. increasing the angle of attack in order to climb , and would be part of a go-around procedure . Pull up is a non-standard phrase , in most parts of the world at least , but you might hear it as ' pull up and go around ' in Canada . It also might be used in urgent situations to urge a pilot to act to avoid an obstacle or collision .
The " heading " refers to the direction an aircraft is pointing . For a Magnetic Heading , this is in relation to Magnetic North . For a True Heading , this is in relation to True North . True North is directly over the earth 's axis . Magnetic North is somewhere over Canada , moving towards Russia . To get the Magnetic Heading , you just read it off the magnetic compass . To get the True Heading , you need to first read the magnetic compass , then either add an Easterly , or subtract a Westerly , magnetic variation ; based upon the isogonic lines on your sectional ( the purple dashed lines labeled 5 ° W , 3 ° E , etc ) . Example 1 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees East Magnetic deviation = true course 180 . Example 2 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees West Magnetic deviation = true course 174 . Because of this , in the past , magnetic headings were used because a simple compass could be used . Finding reliable true headings was difficult until the era of things like the gyrocompass ( patented in 1906 ( Germany ) and 1908 ( USA ) ) and more recently , GPS .
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
Assuming we are speaking of axial compressors/turbines Compressor blades are generally thin and straight , and resemble a tiny rectangular wing with low camber thickness . Image <URL> Turbine blades are more curved , often in almost " U " shapes ( like the ones seen <URL> ) . In particularly large and recent engines , where efficiency is critical , turbine blades will often be full of tiny holes : Image <URL> To distinguish between high pressure and low pressure stages ( compressor or turbine does not matter ) , the length of the blade and its torsion ( i.e. how much the aerodynamic profile turns around the axis of the blade going from the root to the tip ) are key : shorter and more twisted blades will be high pressure ones , longer and straighter blades will be low pressure . Note that two blades of the same length could come one from a high pressure stage and the other from a low pressure one of a different engine : " short " and " long " are relative to the engine size . On the other hand , radial compressors and radial turbines are more difficult to distinguish .
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
Turbofan engines do n't push all air through the combustion chamber . Instead part of it runs along the sides . <URL> This bypass region is where the ( cold ) air stream is redirected from to create the reverse thrust .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
The speed indicator in the cockpit shows indicated airspeed . Indicated airspeed is usually different than GPS speed , due to wind and aerodynamic effects . GPS speed is your speed with respect to the ground . If you are standing on terra firma it reads 0 . If it reads 100 knots you will be 100NM away from where you are now in one hour , so long as you keep flying in a straight line . Airspeed is the speed of the aircraft relative to the surrounding air . So if you are standing on terra firma with 20 knots wind blowing in your face , your airspeed will be 20 knots . If you travel at 100 knots airspeed against a 20 knots headwind wind , your ground speed is 80 knots . If you do 100 knots airspeed with 20 knots tailwind , your GPS speed reads 120 knots . But even in calm wind conditions the airspeed indicator will read differently than the GPS speed . This has to do with the way airspeed is measured . Airspeed is measured with a pitot tube . A pitot tube has two pressure measurement ports . One that measures the total pressure $ P_t $ . This port is facing the incoming airflow . The other measures the static pressure $ P$ and is placed perpendicular to the airflow . The difference between the two pressures is called impact pressure ( pressure rise do to the airflow impacting the pitot tube ) and is denoted $ q_c $ . The impact pressure is related to the speed of the airflow the pitot tube is exposed to . If the flow is considered incompressible ( which is an acceptable approximation for speeds up to 200 knots ) the impact pressure can be derived from Bernouilli 's equation . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 $ $ q_c $ is the impact pressure in Pa $ \ rho $ is the density in kg/m3 $ V$ is the true airspeed in m/s The airspeed indicator is calibrated for standard sea level conditions , where $ \ rho $ is 1.225 kg/m3 . In reality the aircraft will fly at altitude and therefor the actual density of the air is lower . Therefor the indicated airspeed will be lower as well . For example if an aircraft flies 75 m/s ( about 146 knots ) at 6000 ft the density will be 1.02393 kg/m3 . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } 1.02393 \ cdot 75 ^ 2 = 2879.8 \ textrm { Pa } $ The equivalent airspeed at sea level for the same $ q_c $ is : $ V _ { EAS } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 q_c } { \ rho_0 } } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot 2879.8 } { 1.225 } } = 68.6 \ textrm { m/s } $ Your airspeed indicator will read only 68.6 m/s ( 133 knots ) despite the fact that you are moving with 75 m/s ( 146 knots ) with respect to the air . Conversion of true airspeed to the equivalent airspeed can be done directly by : $ V _ { EAS } = V \ cdot \ sqrt { \ frac { \ rho } { \ rho_0 } } $ $ V _ { EAS } $ equivalent airspeed ( m/s ) $ V$ true airspeed ( m/s ) $ \ rho $ actual air density ( kg/m3 ) . $ \ rho_0 $ density at standard sea level conditions ( 1.225 kg/m3 ) The effects of the lower density on your aispeed indicator become more pronounced the higher you go . Once you go faster than about 100 m/s true airspeed the effects of compressibility can no longer be ignored and the above no longer applies . Airspeed indicators are corrected for effects of compressibility and therefore do n't use the equivalent airspeed but instead use calibrated airspeed for calibration . $ V _ { CAS } = a _ { 0 } \ sqrt { 5 \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { P _ { 0 } } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { 2 } { 7 } -1 \ right ] } $ $ V _ { CAS } $ is calibrated airspeed $ a _ { 0 } $ is the speed of sound under standard sea level conditions ( 340.3 m/s ) $ P_0 $ is the static air pressure under standard sea level conditions ( 101325 Pa ) $ { q_c } $ is the impact pressure The impact pressure is also a bit more complex for compressible flow : $ \ ; q_c = P \ left [ \ left ( 1 +0.2 M ^ 2 \ right ) ^ \ tfrac { 7 } { 2 } -1 \ right ] $ $ P$ the static pressure $ M$ the Mach number Effectively , the higher and faster you get , the greater the difference between the indicated airspeed and the true airspeed . For example , Mach 0.8 at 40000 ft in no wind will result in a GPS speed of 489 knots , but a calibrated airspeed of only 242 knots , which is less than half . Therefore at high altitudes and speeds , the indicated airspeed will be lower than the ground speed / GPS speed , unless you have extreme headwind .
end question
start question
What provides the greatest thrust in a high-bypass turbofan engine ?
I analyzed a <URL> last semester in my aerothermodynamics course , so allow me to answer this question . The short answer : the un-compressed air provides the majority of an engine 's total thrust since the compressed air powers the engine . Correction : I forgot to mention that the fans also compress entering air . That is , all air entering an engine is compressed a bit by the fan . Some of this compressed air enters the turbojet core and the rest of the fan-compressed air bypasses the engine core . I ignored this for the sake of simplicity , but I should have explained this since you directly asked about air compression in a turbofan . Long answer : see below ! 1 . The fan ( s ) Air enters the engine through a fan ( or fans in the case of the F100 engine ) . These are the giant fans with a spinning insignia in the middle that you see inside an engine . Update : The spinning insignia clearly show if the fan is spinning so workers do n't get injured . The fan ( s ) increases the pressure of the air that enters an engine . Some of this compressed air is diverted around the rest of the engine and is directed straight out of the engine . The bypass ratio is a measure of how much air bypasses the " jet " core ( bypass air/core air ) . 2 . The compressors The rest of this air is then compressed through a combination of more fans and a converging duct . The data from my thermo project tells me that this stage increases the pressure of the core air by more than 10,000 % , but I 'm not too sure about that * . Sufficed to say , this core air now has a lot of energy -- let 's add some more :D Quick note : The compressed air now has insignificant velocity relative to the bypass air . Most of the compressed air 's energy is " in " its pressure ( senior SE members , please correct me if I 'm wrong ) . 3 . The combustion chamber ( aka , combustor aka magic chamber ) Now the core air enters the combustion chamber . Here the air enters small chambers , mixes with jet fuel , and is ignited . The main parts-of-an-engine diagram I posted makes it seam like the combustion chamber is one big part of a jet-engine , but really the combustor consists of a bunch of smaller chambers surrounded the main shaft of the engine . Here is a gif that shows what I mean : How the combustion chamber operates is beyond my scope of understanding , but consider that a combustor is essentially trying to keep a candle alight in the middle of a hurricane . Awesome engineering goes into designing better and more efficient ( hotter-burning ) chambers . 4 . The turbine ( aka more magic section ) Now that hot and even more energetic air enters a the turbine section which consists of a diverging ( increasing in area ) duct and more fans . Whereas the compress " inserted " energy into the air , the turbines draw out energy from the air . As the air enters the larger ( in volume ) turbine area , it expands and spins the turbine fans which power the compressors and the fan . This Back Work Ratio ( BWR ) is a measure of how much turbine power it takes to spin the compressors . 5 . The nozzle The still energetic core air is once again concentrated before being shot out of the back of the engine.This thrust , together with the thrust of the bypass air , propels the air forward following this model : $ F _ { thrust } = \ dot { m } _ { bypass } \ times \ Delta v _ { bypass } + \ dot { m } _ { core } \ times \ Delta v _ { core } $ Where $ \ dot { m } _ { bypass } $ is the mass flow-rate of air that is bypassed and $ \ Delta v _ { bypass } $ is the change in velocity of that air as a result of the fan . And $ \ dot { m } _ { core } $ is the mass flow-rate of air that is combusted and $ \ Delta v _ { core } $ is the change in velocity of the core air as a result of the fan , compressor , combustion chamber , and turbine . The uncompressed air contributes about 60 % of the total thrust . The " processed " air loses a significant portion of its energy to powering the engine . However , the compressed air still provides about 40 % of the total thrust . Adding an afterburner can increase this contribution to 50 % . How is this possible ? Dead algae from a billion years ago . The hydrocarbons in jet fuel pack a lot of energy into a small <URL> and <URL> ( two completely different concepts ) . Burning those hydrocarbons releases a lot of energy that powers the fan , compressors , and electric generators of an aircraft before pushing the airplane forward . This high energy in a small place/space is also why electric cars/anything were n't practical until LiPo batteries ( story for another article ) . I applaud you for noticing that the uncompressed air contributes to an engine 's thrust . I think the term " bypass " confuses some people into thinking that this air is " thrown away " . it 's not . The bypassed air is actually sped up by a series of fans and imparts forward momentum to the aircraft . I 'm studying Aerospace engineering right now ( Whoop ! ) , so my excitement at being able to answer this question rather side-tracked me from your original question , but I hope you enjoy the extra info on how a turbofan operates . Additional info
Forward bending of the first stage of the low pressure compressor is usually associated with ( soft ) Foreign Object Damage ( FOD ) . Ice and/or large quantities of snow in the engine intake will typically cause forward bending of the leading edge of the tip of the blades . <URL> Damage to GE CF680C2 turbine engine compressor fan blades after snow/ice ingestion Source : <URL> <URL> Damage to Turbomeca gas turbine Arriel 2B turbine engine compressor blades after snow/ice ingestion Source : <URL>
You almost have the answer in your question ; bleed air is hot , compressed air taken from the engine compressors . Bypass bleed air here refers to some of that air which is bled off the engine , but not routed through the air cycle machine ( pack ) . When the air comes out of the pack , its really cold . The pilot has a knob which blends the cold air from the pack with the hot bypass air to adjust the temperature that comes through the actual ductwork ; this is similar to the blender box in a car . For example , in this image taken from <URL> , the bleed air from the engine comes in at the top right corner , and you can see the line for bypass bleed air along the top of the diagram in the pipe labelled " hot air " .
I will talk from my experience as an A7E light attack pilot . It was always a frightening experience at any stage of flight . We had a turbofan engine , which is usually more forgiving to foreign object damage , or FOD , but nonetheless taking a bird of any size in the intake would almost certainly cause an engine failure . And taking a bird hit through the canopy was n't much better . So , it can be a catastrophic event in certain aircraft , while rather benign in others . Was in the front seat taking off on a training hop , and had wheels in the well , when we passed through a large flock of birds at the end of the runway . We were at around 500 feet AGL . It was mesmerizing . As you approach a bird that is above you it will instinctively tuck its wings and dive to get out of your way . So as we flew through the flock there were birds co-altitude with us veering left and right and then the birds above us diving close past the canopy . Miraculously we were not hit . The other experience I have with a bird strike was when I was in the fleet rolling in on the target . I was in a tight right-hand descending turn . I was clearing the left side of the aircraft , looking over the canopy rail when I saw a speck on the canopy . I remember thinking that , " Hey the plane captains are usually better than that at cleaning the canopy , " and then the speck turned into a Turkey Vulture . It impacted the fuselage a few feet behind the intake in the gun port . Luckily for me I was on a NATOPS Safety check flight and so was able to demonstrate my knowledge of a precautionary approach . The ordinance men who fixed the gun were not happy with me . They said the repair was quite messy .
The simplest equation uses an assumed propeller efficiency $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ and converts power P into thrust T like $ $ T = \ frac { P } { v } \ cdot \ eta _ { Prop } $ $ The tricky thing is to get $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ right . Use 85 % for lightly-loaded * propellers working at their design point . And make sure you subtract the power offtake from the engine for driving the accessories , so you only use the effective power at the propeller , not the rated engine power . The equation only works if the propeller is in motion , so airspeed $ v $ is not zero . For covering the static case , please see <URL> . * The load on a propeller can be expressed by the ratio of thrust to the propeller disc area , made dimensionless by dividing by the dynamic pressure $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . If $ T$ is thrust and $ d $ is the diameter , the dimensionless thrust loading coefficient $ c_T $ is $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 8 } \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Sometimes this is simplified to $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Note that this definition needs the propeller thrust at a specific speed . A different way of expressing the propeller loading , which lends itself to using the easy to measure static thrust , is by dividing thrust by the disc area and the dynamic pressure of the propeller tip at rest , with $ n $ as the RPM of the prop : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n \ cdot \ pi \ cdot d } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } } $ $ and again a simplified form of this can be found in literature : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot d ^ 4 } $ $ Generally , a lightly loaded prop has a big diameter and flies at low to moderate speed . While WW II warbirds are still in the lightly loaded realm , all large turboprops ( C-130 , P-3 ) are firmly outside of it .
<URL> : An aircraft over the Ivory Coast collided with a <URL> at the altitude of 11,300 m ( 37,100 ft ) , the current record avian height . This happened on November , 29 1973 . This is well above the height of Everest ( 29,029 ft ) and the lack of oxygen would kill most other birds . " Since then studies on this vulture revealed a number of features in their haemoglobin and a number of cardio-vascular adaptations that allow breathing in rarefied atmosphere , " explains Mr Thomsett . The engine was shutdown during the collision , and was not restarted , it was possible to retrieve a few feathers in the engine , and determine the species . <URL> . Rüppell 's vulture : a 7 to 9 kg bird , living 40 to 50 years : <URL> <URL> . Damaged compressor after a bird strike ( not the involved aircraft ) : <URL> <URL> .
Yes they are . In fact this is required for a static takeoff . A static take-off means setting the brakes and running up the engines to takeoff power then when ready they release the brakes and start the takeoff roll . Besides that one of the test Airliners have to withstand is a worst-case V1 abort . This means starting a takeoff and at the last second slam the brakes , come to a stop and then taxi around for 5 minutes . This all needs to happen fully-loaded and with worn brakes that are still certified safe to use . Between hitting the brakes and coming to a stop the engines will not have time to spool down and stop providing takeoff power . Airliner mechanics also do engine run-up tests essentially powering up the engine and going through the power range and making sure it works as specified . This is usually 1 engine at a time . In these run-up tests loose debris ( including cars ) can be thrown around by the engine blast . So it 's important to keep the area clear .
The gulf region is very hot , something that can reduce aircraft performance . The 777-9 is better able to cope with that ( due to the higher thrust from the engines and larger wing area ) .
The issue is undoubtedly vapor lock . In the fuel injected Lyc 540 , the fuel injection plumbing is on the top of the engine which is the cold side of the engine when you are flying but when parked , heat rises ! The following procedure runs cooler fuel through the plumbing while flooding the engine , then the flooded start procedure is necessary . First , check your POH for the hot start procedure for your plane . If not there , try this as it is for a very similar airplane : Hot Starts on the Saratoga PA-32-300 : Intentionally flood the engine . This runs cool fuel through the plumbing and " breaks " the vapor lock . a ) Full rich b ) Wide open throttle c ) Fuel pump on , watch fuel flow gauge d ) When gauge registers flow , wait 3-5 seconds then red knob to ICO and pump off . Crank engine with red knob still at ICO and with throttle wide open at first . Gradually close throttle ( at a rate that will take you about 10 seconds to close the throttle ) and it should start up at some point . When engine catches , do several things more or less simultaneously : a ) release ignition key b ) throttle to idle to avoid over-revving c ) mixture full rich .
I get this question a lot from people who are apprehensive about flying with a private pilot . I 'm afraid I wo n't be reducing these fears in any way . Let 's review some general statistics during 2008 . Note - these stats are n't specific to light or single engine aircraft : <URL> reported there were 1.21 fatalities per 100,000 flight hours for private aircraft ( Part 91 operators ) . <URL> reported there were 1.26 fatalities per 100 million miles travelled by automobile We can equate that to about 2 million hours ( estimating an average speed of 50mph ) . This gives us 0.063 fatalities per 100,000 driving hours . Private aircraft have a fatality rate about 19 times greater than driving . It is also true that a majority of the accidents that occur are pilot error ( 71 % ) and could have been prevented . There are risks involved when taking to the sky as a private pilot and understanding these risks is part of the continual learning process . The key to safety is performing careful planning , keeping current and proficient , knowing when to cancel flights or turn around and not to exceed your capabilities or the capabilities of your aircraft .
Alcohols are typically very effective de-icers ( consider that ordinary vodka wo n't freeze until -17 * C , and ethylene glycol , a " diol " or " double alcohol " with two hydroxyl groups , is used as an antifreeze in automotive coolant ) , but virtually all of them are flammable in some concentration , so it could affect the engine , but unless the engine drew straight deicer through the fuel line it would be unlikely to cause a major problem . First , it would depend on exactly which deicing compound is being used ; the most common are methanol , ethylene glycol , propylene glycol and glycerin . These all have different flash points and different heats of combustion ( the amount of energy released by burning them ) which will differ more or less dramatically from those of 100LL or Jet A . The closer a compound is in its combustion characteristics to that of the actual fuel , the more it will act like the fuel and thus the fewer problems you 'll have ; ideally , a compound that is indistinguishable from the aircraft 's fuel will simply result in a richer mixture if it 's ingested through the air intake ( which can be easily corrected with the mixture knob ) , while if it 's fed through the fuel line you 'll see no difference at all in the short term ( in the long term the de-icer might cause more buildup of combustion byproducts inside the engine requiring cleaning ) . If there is a difference in combustion characteristics , you 'll see a difference in engine performance relative to the amount being ingested by the engine . A lower flash point for the de-icer means it will ignite before the fuel does and can cause misfires in the engine which is bad ( the timescale for exactly how bad depends on the severity and timing of the misfires and the type of engine ) . A higher flashpoint will cause the engine to lose power , as the de-icer wo n't burn as efficiently in the combustion chamber , and if ingested through the air intake , will displace oxygen . De-icer mixed with water is probably the worst case scenario , as under no circumstances will fuel , de-icer and water all sit in a homogeneous solution . Again it depends on how much the engine gets , but the addition of water will act to quench combustion and can cause an engine failure that you 're unlikely to recover from in the air ( once water gets into an engine it 's very difficult to get it back out ) . With a jet engine , most of these considerations are reduced by the simple fact that as much as 80 % of the air entering the nacelle never enters the actual combustion chamber . So , ground crews at major airports can be much more liberal with de-icer around engine intakes ( and should be , as the pressure differentials inherent in and around a jet intake can increase ice crystal formation ) . Further , commercial jet engines have to be rated to withstand ridiculous amounts of ingested materials of all kinds , including water , birds , dust/sand , etc. . A little de-icer is probably the friendliest foreign substance to be introduced into a passenger jet 's turbofans during its service life . Finally , a simple search for " anti-ice " turns up several variants of aviation and automotive fuel with de-icing components mixed in ; it 's especially important for automotive fuel as most of these fuels contain ethanol which is hygroscopic ( it will pull water out of the air ) causing ethanol-water ice crystals to form in the fuel lines . AvGas is an older formulation that still uses tetraethyllead and no ethanol , but water contamination is still possible and so a fuel stabilizer ( which also typically acts as a deicer ) is a common addition to winter fuel tanks . So , aircraft manufacturers know that de-icer will be fed into the engines in some way or other , and they design those engines to be tolerant of it .
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
Lycoming engines have the camshaft above the crankshaft , and Continental engines have the cam below the crankshaft . This seems to keep the Conti cams better oiled and therefore less susceptible to corrosion .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
Several things come to mind , but they will all reduce efficiency and/or cost money , so they will not be popular with engine users : For turbofans : Reduce the <URL> of the spinning parts by reducing the bypass ratio . Inertia is mass times distance , so making the engine diameter smaller should have the biggest effect . Increase temperature margins for the turbine . Today , the electronic control ( called <URL> for Full Authority Digital Engine Control ) will limit the amount of fuel that can be injected into the combustion chamber to limit the temperature in the turbine . By running the turbine hotter for a few seconds the turbine torque can be increased , at the cost of a reduction in the lifetime of the turbine . For turboprops : Reduce blade pitch momentarily to unload the propeller , so more torque is available for spooling up the engine core . This , however , reduces thrust when it is needed most . Reduce secondary loads by disconnecting generators and closing bleed valves . This is already done by todays engine control , however . The best way of dealing with the slow engine response is operational : Avoid situations where the need for a rapid spool-up might arise or enter those situations not with engines set to idle , but to some medium power setting . Carrier pilots do this routinely by spooling up the engine shortly before touchdown , so they will have the required thrust at their disposal if the tail hook fails to catch any of the <URL> . Thanks to RalphJ for pointing out that turboprops use the same tactic . Helicopters never let the engine run in idle while in flight . If less thrust ( turboprops ) rsp . lift ( helicopters ) is needed , both adjust pitch to set the desired thrust/lift and keep engine RPM up . Now the mass flow through the engine core is the same as at full thrust , only the amount of heating in the combustion chamber is reduced to adjust the power output of the engine . When more thrust/lift is needed , the pilot adjusts pitch and fuel flow to set the desired thrust/lift level . Since the engine is already running at top speed , the change is not delayed by inertial effects .
In general , the engine life is measured in terms of two things : Flight hours Flight cycles A takeoff and a landing counts as a flight cycle . The most important concept in engine life is the Time Between Overhaul ( TBO ) , which is basically the manufacturer recommended time period after which the engine is stripped down , checked thoroughly and required parts replaced . After overhaul , the engine is usually cleared till the next TBO . An overhauled engine is theoretically as good as a new one and comes with the same life ( TBO ) and warranty , if applicable . Airline engines ( for example the Rolls Royce Trent series ) usually have TBOs of over 15000 hours . The record for maximum time for an engine on wing ( i.e. use in aircraft before removal for overhaul ) is well over 40,000 hours . The life of an engine is given by the manufacturer and are different for different engines . However , the engine life depends on a number of parameters and is usually different for various engine components . The rotating components have life limits which are less than the engine and are replaced periodically , mostly during the TBO . For example , the turbine blades are replaced after a set number of turbine cycles and/or after a set number of hours , which are lesser than the others . In addition , most rotating components ( compressors , turbines ) are periodically subjected to checks , and are replaced if found damaged . In case of abnormal operations , some parts are required to be replaced . For example , if one engine is required to give excessive thrust ( for example in case of One Engine Inoperative ) , the engine is subjected to thorough checks similar to TBO . Airline engines are usually serviced ( Overhauled at TBOs ) and maintained till they are deemed not good to use or not economical to ( service/repair and ) operate anymore . Most of the engine manufacturers employ condition based health monitoring programs , which helps them to plan when to service and repair the engine . As a result , the engine life varies based on its condition .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
The nacelle is not some solid block . For the flow it looks like a hollow , slightly blocked tube . The flow ahead of the nacelle is indeed slowed down in flight , but only a little , entering the intake face at a flow speed of around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 . This compresses the air ahead of the nacelle when flying in cruise at around Mach 0.8 , so what enters the intake is already slightly compressed . Note that this compression does not involve boundary layers or shocks , so it is very efficient . The effect of the compression is that some of the air flowing towards the nacelle is pressed aside to flow around it . To avoid flow separation , the <URL> . Pre-compression helps , because it raises the pressure in the whole engine and increases its thrust . What might be looked at as drag is in fact increasing the thrust of the engine ! Of course , by further compressing and heating the ingested air the engine accelerates it , so the outflow speed of the core flow is easily double its entry speed . The outflow fills up the cross section of the engine , so the outer flow never has to flow into a void and experience separation ( which is responsible for most of the drag of blunt bodies ) . Instead , it meets a faster jet of air once it has passed the engine fairing and is accelerated during the mixing process . Only if the engine is idling or off will the <URL> .
It is a matter of power source ( and engine aspiration in case of air breathing engines ) , wing loading and aerodynamic efficiency . With current technology , the limit is around 100.000 ft ( 30 km ) , as proven by <URL> . I doubt that much more is possible with really useable aircraft . Aerodynamics first : The altitude factor of $ c_l \ cdot Ma ^ 2 $ tells you how much lift can be produced at a given flight Mach number , and the wing loading then gives you the minimum density for sustained flight . 0.4 is a good value for $ c_l \ cdot Ma ^ 2 $ , and 30 kg/m $ ^ 2 $ is a feasible wing loading for flight at 30 km . See <URL> for more detail . If the power source needs ambient air ( piston engine ) , the plane needs triple-stage compressors or turbochargers , which have been <URL> and should be good for maybe 24 km . They are finicky devices ; <URL> rarely flew at its maximum power because the stages of the turbochargers would oscillate in an alternating sequence of surges . One stage would race ahead , causing the other to surge , which made the first surge and free up the other to race ahead , and so on . Above approximately 24 km , solar-electric propulsion looks like the best option currently . In all cases you can only fly subsonic , so the minimum practical wing loading will limit the maximum altitude . Aircraft like Helios are very delicate already , so they can only be launched in calm weather and are at risk of being blown away by high altitude winds . Payload is minimal , and depending what the aircraft is supposed to do besides flying high will give you a limit on the maximum altitude between 24 and 30 km . Going to orbit in a propeller driven device is completely illusory . There is not enough matter to push against at higher altitudes , and the theoretical propeller diameter would be measured in Kilometers ( or miles , if you prefer that unit ) . The structural mass would be prohibitive . Also , propeller thrust is inversely proportional to flight speed , and there is no way to accelerate with a propeller to escape velocity . The thrust would be just a rounding error away from zero at 7.9 km/s . This speed is required to escape earth 's gravity by flying fast enough around it so that the centripetal force equals the aircraft 's weight and is called orbital velocity . The higher the orbit becomes , the more energy is required to reach it . In order to gain enough energy , a propeller aircraft would accelerate in the atmosphere to a speed quite a bit higher than the desired orbital velocity and then convert that kinetic energy to potential energy to lift its trajectory above at least 100 km , the internationally recognized altitude where spaceflight starts . Note that this phase of the flight requires inverted flight if the acceleration takes some time . The maximum flight Mach number would need to be maybe 12 or even 15 so this maneuver is possible at all . In short : Going to orbit with a propeller ? Forget it !
You MUST NOT allow the EGT or ITT ( whichever is applicable ) temperature limit to be exceeded in any turbine engine . If it gets close to occurring during start on a PT-6 , you need to abort the start by stopping fuel flow into the engine , then conduct the appropriate checklist for an aborted start . Unlike the Honeywell / Garrett TPE single-shaft engines , the PT-6 normally wo n't get close to the temperature limit on start . The Garretts I used to fly in Metroliners had to get right next to redline and stay there on every start . One reason that PT-6 engines are so much more relaxing to fly . On takeoff / climb , just do n't exceed the maximum temp limit ; regulate the power lever ( s ) to keep below it . I 've never had a failure of a Pratt except for bleed air leaks . Airlines count cycles as a start , flight , and shutdown . If one of these did not occur , you did not have a cycle .
end question
start question
How is the glide ratio affected when converting a wheeled plane to floats ?
As glide ratio is the <URL> , the increase in drag due to the addition of floats will reduce it . The <URL> gives the effect of addition of floats in the glide ratio : <URL> DHC-2 Beaver 's Glide ratio ; image from <URL> Note that at their configuration for best glide ratio , there is a drop in about 10 % in glide ratio for the configuration for floats . This will differ for different configurations and operating conditions , but the basic effect of addition of floats will be a reduction in glide ratio .
For a non-commercial flight under Part 91 rules there are no issues I 'm aware of with letting a non-rated passenger handle the controls - and it 's done quite frequently ( I ca n't think of any pilots I know offhand who have n't had someone else take the controls for one reason or another ) . The rated pilot is still pilot-in-command of the flight and ultimately responsible for everything that happens , so they need to be relatively certain their friend will let go of the controls if told to do so , and they need to maintain situational awareness ( traffic scan , airspace , etc. -- if the friend blunders into Class B airspace it 's going to land in the pilot 's lap ) and be ready to take over if the friend starts doing something that could jeopardize the safety of the flight . There are some common-sense limits here : something insane like have two non-rated friends at the controls the rated pilot being PIC from the back seat giving them instructions over the intercom would be a no-go . Similarly while this sort of thing is a total non-event in an aircraft with typical dual controls you would probably want to have a higher level of trust in your friend if you 're flying something with a throw-over yoke .
The gliding slope , which equals $ D/L $ , does not change with weight . Hence , starting from a given height $ h $ , the longest gliding distance will be $ d = h \ cdot max ( L/D ) = h \ cdot max ( C_L / C_D ) $ , i.e. , independent of weight . However , the gliding speed , and , consequently , the gliding time , do change with weight , and significantly . If $ C _ { L , max } $ is the lift coefficient when $ C_L / C_D $ is maximal , the gliding speed at best slope , $ \ bar { V } $ , is obtained from $ W = ( 1/2 ) \ cdot rho \ cdot \ bar { V } ^ 2 \ cdot S _ { ref } \ cdot C _ { L , max } $ .
With current technology the L/D might go up to 70 or 75 , and going higher would require an almost impractically large wing span . Gliders need to fly in tight circles to use updrafts , and the larger the wingspan becomes , the bigger the speed difference between inner and outer wing will be . Also , landing such a wide wing without dropping a wingtip will be very hard . Smaller wings with a high aspect ratio will have a low chord length , leading to smaller <URL> s , which translates into a steep increase of friction drag if the aspect ratio is increased without increasing wing area . Therefore , only adding wing span will help , and this runs into a soft wall beyond the 30 m of designs like the <URL> . In addition , the current <URL> will make bigger aircraft unattractive for competition pilots . The <URL> is claimed to have an L/D approaching 75 , but I have learned over the years to see theoretical predictions as invariably optimistic , and realistic performance , with bugs on the wing and all , will never quite measure up to the hoped-for ideal . <URL> to reduce friction drag and proposed glider designs with L/D ratios in excess of 100 . Turbines at the wingtips would drive the suction pumps , so these would still be unpowered aircraft . But so far nobody has dared to turn his visions into reality . While laminarisation avoids the increase in friction drag of a turbulent boundary layer , a moving wall would eliminate viscous losses altogether . Now the friction generation is between the moving wall ( this could be a taut foil running between two cylinders at the forward and aft end of the wing ) and the fixed structure . With current materials there is no hope of reducing drag this way , but who knows what tricks will be possible in the future . A glide ratio of 100 or more looks rather unlikely in the next 50 years .
Flying clubs and aircraft renters generally only charge for the time the plane is actually in use . In the U.S. at least , this is commonly measured using the <URL> ( actual clock time used , triggered by oil pressure or some other indicator that the plane is " in use " ) , or by <URL> , which is a bit trickier but can very roughly be thought of as the amount of wear you 've put on the engine . ( Strictly speaking it 's a count of the number of engine revolutions , converted to " hours at cruise RPM " . ) For overnight or longer trips , it 's common to find a minimum hourly usage per day . For example , if you take a plane on a 3-day trip , and your club/owner requires 2 hours/day , you will be paying for 2 x 3 = 6 hours of Tach / Hobbs / whatever time , even if you did n't actually use the plane that much . You 'll pay for the higher of your actual usage or your minimum usage per day . It 's extremely rare in the U.S. , but not unheard-of , to encounter an extra fixed fee per day for taking the airplane for more than one day . ( I 've never personally encountered a fixed fee like this . ) I 'm not sure if things are different in the U.K. Hourly rates can also either be " wet " ( the rate includes fuel : any amount you pay for fuel will be deducted from your rental fee when you return ) or " dry " ( the rate includes the airplane only and you must pay for fuel ) . " Dry " rentals may or may not also require you to pay for oil or other consumables used . ( This is general information . Of course , if your question is specifically about Fly ASG 's policies and fee scales , your best bet is to contact them directly . I know nothing about them . )
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
Under some conditions , <URL> allows for a 15 % increase ( up to 12,500 lbs ) in max gross weight in Alaska : ( a ) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Federal Aviation Regulations , the Administrator will approve , as provided in this section , an increase in the maximum certificated weight of an airplane type certificated under Aeronautics Bulletin No. 7 -- A of the U.S. Department of Commerce dated January 1 , 1931 , as amended , or under § 91.325 14 CFR Ch . I ( 1 -- 1 -- 05 Edition ) the normal category of part 4a of the former Civil Air Regulations ( 14 CFR part 4a , 1964 ed . ) if that airplane is operated in the State of Alaska by -- A certificate holder conducting operations under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter ; or The U.S. Department of Interior in conducting its game and fish law enforcement activities or its management , fire detection , and fire suppression activities concerning public lands . ( b ) The maximum certificated weight approved under this section may not exceed -- 12,500 pounds ; 115 percent of the maximum weight listed in the FAA aircraft specifications ; The weight at which the airplane meets the positive maneuvering load factor requirement for the normal category specified in § 23.337 of this chapter ; or The weight at which the airplane meets the climb performance requirements under which it was type certificated . ( c ) In determining the maximum certificated weight , the Administrator considers the structural soundness of the airplane and the terrain to be traversed . ( d ) The maximum certificated weight determined under this section is added to the airplane 's operation limitations and is identified as the maximum weight authorized for operations within the State of Alaska . One possible reason for this is that Alaska Statute Section 02.35.110 requires aircraft operating to/from and within Alaska to carry additional emergency and survival equipment : ( a ) An airman may not make a flight inside the state with an aircraft unless emergency equipment is carried as follows : the following minimum equipment must be carried during the summer months : rations for each occupant sufficient to sustain life for one week ; one axe or hatchet ; one first aid kit ; an assortment of tackle such as hooks , flies , lines , and sinkers ; one knife ; fire starter ; one mosquito headnet for each occupant ; two small signaling devices such as colored smoke bombs , railroad fuses , or Very pistol shells , in sealed metal containers . in addition to the equipment required under ( 1 ) of this subsection , the following must be carried as minimum equipment from October 15 to April 1 of each year : one pair of snowshoes ; one sleeping bag ; one wool blanket or equivalent for each occupant over four . ( b ) However , operators of multi-engine aircraft licensed to carry more than 15 passengers need carry only the food , mosquito nets , and signalling equipment at all times other than the period from October 15 to April 1 of each year , when two sleeping bags , and one blanket for every two passengers shall also be carried . All of the above requirements as to emergency rations and equipment are considered to be minimum requirements which are to remain in full force and effect , except as further safety measures may be from time to time imposed by the department .
The pitot tube is not much of a problem - it 's your typical pitot tube , pointing forward ( toward the nose of the helicopter ) to measure forward airspeed . Airspeed is somewhat less important to a helicopter pilot than it is to a fixed wing pilot since lift is generated by swinging the rotor around instead of moving the whole vehicle through the air . The static port requires a little more thought , because it should be located in an area of " undisturbed air " , and being in rotor wash is certainly not " undisturbed " . On the R22 the static port is actually located inside the shell <URL> and is thus shielded from rotor wash : You could locate the static source in a similar unpressurized-but-shielded compartment in a pressurized helicopter . On other helicopters the static port is on the fuselage as on most aircraft , for example this one is on <URL> : <URL> Note that the static port is slightly recessed on the seasprite to keep it out of direct rotor wash . Multiple static ports may also be used ( again , as you 'll find on other aircraft ) to give an average static pressure and reduce the effects of rotor wash on the static pressure reading . As with all static systems there will still be some degree of error - no system is measuring truly static air . As long as it 's within a reasonable tolerance all the instruments should be able to be calibrated to read correctly though .
The NASA website quotes an approximate ratio of 1 The shuttle was designed with a low L/D ratio ( ~ 1 ) because during the descent the spacecraft must be slowed from about 17,300 mph to about 250 mph at landing . ( <URL> ) Note that glide ratio is normally equal to the lift to drag ratio - <URL> - <URL>
" The wing lift formula shows that lift of a wing is proportional to its area " . That 's absolutely true . However a wing generates both lift and drag . Drag is of two natures : <URL> and <URL> . The sum of all drag is the total drag : <URL> Source : <URL> Induced drag decreases with speed , and has its origin in wing tip vortices . Vortices actually increase the velocity of the downwash , and changes the effective angle of attack . Which in turn changes the direction of the aerodynamic force , creating a force opposing to the direction of flight : <URL> Induced drag , source : <URL> Induced drag being due to tip vortices , if we can make vortices less efficient , then we also reduce induced drag . The way to do that is to have long wings , so the the downwash from the vortices affects only a part of the wing : <URL> Tip vortices , source : <URL> Research demonstrated that the induced drag is dependent on the wing <URL> , not only on the wing span . This can be understood easily : The quantity of air in a tip vortex is larger when the chord is large . So the answer to your question is : Yes lift is proportional to the wing area , but the <URL> is proportional to the wing aspect ratio . That 's why longer wings are preferred , they minimize energy lost in fighting drag . " Why are most conventional wings shaped the same ( swept back rectangles ) ? " Longer wings are better for fuel efficiency , but we have other problems in the designer queue , and some can be solved by selecting the <URL> , e.g. : We want to prevent the stall to be abrupt ( at the expense of creating less lift though ) : <URL> We want to delay the creation of a local supersonic flow in <URL> used in commercial airliners . When flying at M 0.8 , airflow is accelerated to produce lift , some areas of the wing reach supersonic speed ( Mach > 1 ) . The associated shock wave creates an additional drag . By sweeping the wing we add a spanwise component to the airflow which decreases the chordwise velocity , so the shock wave appears only to a higher aircraft airspeed : <URL> On the other hand , the sweptback wing tends to stall at the tip first , which is not good at all , as when a stall appears we need ailerons to prevent it from worsening , and ailerons are located at the tips to increase their effectiveness . So swept wings are also twisted so that the tip angle of attack is smaller than the root one , forcing the stall to start at wing root . Wings planforms are multiple , each type of wing , or sometimes subcomponent , can improve a particular issue ( possibly creating another that will be less important for the designer ) . See this very interesting article on Wikipedia : <URL>
The compression ratio of the turbo machinery will not change with altitude as long as the speed of the compressor does not change ( excluding Reynolds number effects ) . This will lower the maximum pressure in parallel with the outside pressure . However , to create the same lift at altitude , the aircraft has to fly faster . In 10 km , where the air density is roughly 1/4 of sea level density , the airplane has to fly twice as fast . Also , air temperature drops with altitude , so the <URL> even more . And this Mach number determines how much <URL> happens ahead of and in the intake . Flying fast will increase the intake pressure level , which partially compensates for the lower atmospheric pressure . Since the pressure rises with the square of the Mach number , fast airplanes have a clear advantage here . Take the <URL> : Its <URL> had a compression ratio of measly 12 , but the precompression around the intake added another factor of 7 at Mach 2 , so the total pressure ratio between the peak pressure in the engine and outside air was over 80 ! Admittedly , this air pressure was only 76 mbar at the cruising altitude of the Concorde , so the absolute peak pressure in the engine was a much less impressive 6 bar . Typical compression ratios To answer the question about typical compression ratios : This correlates strongly with the age of the design : The first operational turbojet , the Junkers Jumo 004 of 1943 , had a compression ratio of just 3.2 using 7 compressor stages . The more recent <URL> of the Eurofighter achieves a compression ratio of around 26 with a similar size and weight using 8 compressed stages , but produces almost 7 times more thrust . The main difference is better aerodynamics . The <URL> achieve a pressure ratio of around 50 using 15 compressor stages . They can afford to compress the air more because they try to heat and accelerate the air as little as necessary during the combustion process . Since the maximum heat inside the engine is limited by the materials used , a higher compression in military engines would leave less thermal margin for combustion heating . The higher nozzle velocities of supersonic-capable engines are best achieved with less compression and more combustion heating . Here is a plot of the pressure ratio trends for commercial transport engines ( <URL> ) <URL>
In the US , the requirements are specified in FAA <URL> , United States Standard for Terminal Instrument Procedures ( TERPS ) . Section 2-3 states : 2-3 . General PA Requirements . See Order 8260.19 for requirements related to GPA/TCH coincidence . a. GPA . Utilize a standard 3-degree GPA where possible . GPAs greater than 3 degrees but not more than the maximum ( table 2-1 ) are authorized without approval when needed to provide obstacle clearance or to meet simultaneous parallel approach standards . Other cases or GPAs less than 3 degrees require Flight Standards or military authority approval ( USAF not applicable ) . <URL> b. TCH . The published TCH ( nearest whole foot ) should accommodate the largest aircraft height group normally expected to use the runway and must not be less than the minimum or exceed the maximum TCH . Note : 60 feet is the maximum TCH regardless of height group . ( 1 ) CAT I . The TCH is based on achieving an acceptable wheel crossing height ( WCH ) . The WCH is the difference between the TCH and the approximate glidepath antenna-to-wheel height ( see table 2-2 ) . ( a ) The optimum TCH provides a 30-foot WCH . It must provide a WCH no less than 20 feet or greater than 50 feet . ( b ) Displaced Threshold Considerations . The TCH over a displaced threshold can result in a WCH of not less than 10 feet if the height of the glide path over the beginning of the full strength runway pavement suitable for landing falls within the minimum/maximum TCH values . ( 2 ) CAT II/III . The optimum TCH is 55 feet and must be between 50 and 60 feet regardless of height group . <URL> Note : To determine the minimum allowable TCH , add 20 feet to the glidepath-to-wheel height and to determine the maximum allowable TCH , add 50 feet to the glidepath-to-wheel height ( not to exceed 60 feet ) . So , the answer to the question is ; No , they are not all 3 degrees and 50 feet .
It 's very difficult to answer this question directly , mostly because that the costs you or I would face when undertaking such an endeavour are primarily capital in nature . For a large airline ( or other organisation ) , they 'd have staff and equipment on hand already , and the price an organisation like BA or BAE pay for parts is almost certainly different to the list price . That being said , the deal in question is <URL> . From that source , the taxpayer will be paying around # 10.5 billion for 14 Airbus A330 troop transport/tanker jets with a capital value of only about # 1 billion , although the deal also includes maintenance . Although converted to military specification , the converted passenger jets will not be flying into a war zone any time soon . Interestingly , it appears that the government itself did n't really know the answer to ' how much will this cost ' , even as they were signing the contract to <URL> Specifically , a critical report from the National Audit Office concluded that there was ' poor access to full cost data -- the Department never gained visibility of detailed sub-contractor costs and margins for the aircraft and their modification ' . In other words , nobody knows !
From an older <URL> on mountain flying : Mountain Wave When the wind speed is above about 25 knots and flowing perpendicular to the ridge lines , the air flow can form waves , much like water flowing over rocks in a stream bed . The waves form down wind from the ridge line and will be composed of very strong up and down drafts , plus dangerous rotor action under the crests of the waves . If enough moisture is present , lenticular clouds can form to give a visual indication of the wave action . These clouds are reported in the remarks section of hourly sequence reports as ACSL ( altocumulus standing lenticular ) or CCSL ( cirrocumulus standing lenticular ) Pretty much sums up what you 're seeing I guess . As for action : Ridge and Pass Crossing On most mountain flights , you will need to cross at least one ridge or pass . Experienced pilots recommend crossing a ridge or pass at the ridge elevation plus at least 1,000 feet . If the winds at mountain top level are above 20 knots , increase that to 2,000 feet . Plan to be at that altitude at least three miles before reaching the ridge and stay at that altitude until at least three miles past it . This clearance zone will give you a reasonable safety zone to avoid the most severe turbulence and down drafts in windy conditions . If conditions or airplane performance dictate , you may need to fly along the windward side of a ridge to find updrafts for gaining altitude before crossing a ridge . You may also need to circle before reaching the ridge if climbing out of a valley airport . When you actually cross a ridge , you should do so at a 45 • angle to the ridge . This allows you to turn away from the ridge quicker if you encounter a severe downdraft or turbulence . Once you have crossed the ridge , turn directly away from it at a go • angle to get away from the most likely area of turbulence quickly . Plan your crossing to give yourself the ability to turn toward lower terrain quickly if necessary . As for helicopter mountain flying specifically , I 'm afraid you are unlikely to find somebody on here with that experience . You might have better chance on searching for it online and phoning up flight schools that offer such courses ( I found a few in the states ) for information .
A GPS needs a line of sight to ( at least ) 4 satellites in order to compute a position . Given that you were able to get a position during the cruise , I assume that you were close to a window and had a clear view of a part of the sky . During the cruise , the aircraft trajectory was close to a straight line ( or changing slowly ) , so your receiver was able to keep a line of sight to the same set of satellites . But during the approach , the trajectory was much more dynamic ( lots of turns ) , so your receiver did n't had a constant line of sight toward the same set of satellites and " lost " them . It takes time for a receiver to " lock " on the signal of a given satellite , so the receiver it could n't compute a position from other satellites because they were not in sight long enough .
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
Many aviation headsets either have an Aux-jack or a bluetooth connection , and listening to music is specifically mentioned as a feature . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) Some headsets even have a feature that detects radio-communications , and immediately silences the music . The FAA has no problem with pilots listening to music provided its not distracting . Individual company policies may differ .
You 'll find this info in helicopter performance design literature . The power to drive the rotor ( and a propellor ) can be sub-divided into three parts : useful power , induced power , and profile power . The solidity ratio shows up in the profile power part . Like in aerodynamics , the power/thrust equations are often made dimensionless and evaluated in coefficients . From Helicopter Test and Evaluation by Cooke and Fitzpatrick , section 2.4 : $ C_P = C_T \ left ( \ frac { V_C + v_i } { V_T } \ right ) + \ frac { s \ cdot C_D } { 8 } $ with $ s $ being solidity ratio . So solidity ratio shows up in the profile drag power portion , which makes sense .
The short answer is , when the surrounding environment requires it . The procedure here is perhaps most akin to a short field take off over a 50 ft obstacle but a few things are going on . The aircraft , as soon as it leaves the ground is climbing at <URL> . Vx is the speed for best angle of climb while Vy is the speed for best rate of climb . In your linked video its mostly for show . In practice short field over a 50ft obstacle takeoffs are used for , well , short fields ... or when you need to get off the ground fast so as to get over some obstacle at the end of the runway . Generally speaking most commercial airports have long runways that are more or less obstacle free ( <URL> ) so short field maneuvers are not what they are in general aviation . There are lots of small fields all over the country that have trees ( also known as 50 foot obstacles ) power lines , buildings , church steeples or any manner of obstacle at the end of the runway . On top of that many of these strips are on the shorter side ( under 3000 ft. ) so you simply have less runway to work with and your margins can be far smaller . <URL> It is the pilots responsibility to operate the aircraft safely and these kinds of maneuvers are well within operating limitations . In small planes they happen more often than you would think , especially if <URL> . and even us lowly private pilots are trained in short field 50ft obstacle clearance maneuvers . As for the big guys if the airport environment calls for it , it may be performed but I would think it is less common as most commercial airliners can pitch up far more than people in the back would be happy with . Someone with more commercial experience may be able to elaborate on how often they happen in practice there . There are a few things to keep in mind as well , military planes simply have a much higher thrust to weight ratio than commercial airliners and can in some cases sustain vertical climb outs . Military jets also often have afterburners for an added boost . The commercial planes you see in the linked video are more than likely lightly loaded carrying only a partial fuel load . <URL>
fooot has pointed out the <URL> ( powers the B-1 Lancer ) has a BPR ( bypass ratio ) of > 2:1 and comes with an afterburner . Other examples are the <URL> ( 1.1:1 ) and the <URL> ( 0.97:1 ) . Generally , anything <URL> is a low BPR , and bypass air is needed for cooling . Pure turbojets resort to other means of cooling , such as the ram air inlet <URL> , or they run inefficiently at low combustion temperatures . I ca n't speak for the inner workings of a classified military engine , but an ideal supersonic engine would be a variable cycle engine ( VCE ) . Operating with bypass in the subsonic regime , and without in the supersonic high-power demand regime . Such theoretical ( to the public at least ) examples from the 90 's are shown ( and linked ) below . Do note the idea behind the VCE is the elimination of the wasteful and noisy afterburner . So , it 's an either/or situation . A dual operation of afterburner and high bypass in a non-VCE would not have benefits . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image shows how a VCE routes the bypass air in both modes of operation . Other variations by RR and Snecma can be <URL> . Note the novel design of the Snecma with the free-turbine -- extra-fan . VCE 's would definitely be heavier and more complex engines . Related : <URL>
end question
start question
Can cabin pressure be lower than outside pressure ?
Besides the sealing the aircraft would also need a vacuum pump that is able to pull air out of the cabin which means extra weight . <URL> is through a air cycle machine that pushes air into the aircraft and outflow valves . There is no facility to pull air out of the craft . Any pressure drop you may experience on the ground is probably because the pilot increases air pressure on the ground slightly to test the seals and then releases it before takeoff .
Can you see wind shear ? Nope , but you can sometimes see indications of it . <URL> , windshear is usually associated with the following weather situations ( photos found on Google images by me and are clickable to take you to the source ) : Jet streams <URL> Mountain waves <URL> Frontal surfaces <URL> <URL> Thunderstorms and convective clouds ( and I added virga here too ) <URL> <URL> <URL> Microbursts . <URL> <URL> Avoid these at all cost ! Actually , that 's the easy part . The windshear without the visible signs is more the issue , and <URL> does a good job of telling you what to look for during flight ( especially takeoff and landing when you are low and slow ) .
Well , sort of . In Class G airspace you often find ATZs . This is airspace 2nmi radius to 2,000 ft around an aerodrome that is controlled by the aerodrome so take-off and landings . They are often not surrounded by Class-A or Class-D airspace and just control the immediate area around the aerodrome , and are full ATC unit , although sometimes only an AFIS . So , there is a little controlled airspace associated with it , but very little . An aircraft must have permission to penetrate it . In the UK a clear example is EGCL ( Fenland ) . However , if you count this as too much controlled airspace for your question , then no . It would not be practical to control landings or take-off when the aircraft is immediately in uncontrolled airspace . <URL>
Not very frequent at all . The need to delay traffic toward an airport is quite common . Usually , it is simply a question of fitting someone in a sequence of arriving aircraft , but there can be more severe cases , such as a runway change or ongoing emergency . In any case , ATC has a number of tools to use , and unpublished holdings are usually one of the last tools to be selected . What we usually prefer to do is make use of radar vectoring instead . This is much more flexible , easier to work with and requires less time on the frequency . A normal holding pattern takes 4 minutes to fly . If needing to delay a flight for just a few minutes , using a holding will only really work if it works to delay the flight 4 , 8 , 12 etc. minutes . If I need to delay someone 6 minutes to fit in an arrival gap , then I could put them in a holding for 4 minutes and then vector them around for 2 minutes , but if I am going to be giving delaying vectors anyway , skipping the holding is easier . On a busy radio frequency , available time on the frequency is everything for a controller . Nonessential or long messages can really ruin your day when working a tight approach sequence into a busy airport . Let 's look at the phraseology for instructing an aircraft to enter a non published holding that the crew were not expecting : SAS123 proceed direct to ANDIE , alpha november delta india echo , and hold . Inbound track 120 , right turns 1 minute legs . Depending on your rate of speech , such an instruction may take almost 10 seconds to issue ( and you ca n't just speak faster , because then the pilots will ask you to repeat yourself because they missed something ) . If ATC needs to delay flight for a long time ( say , more than 10 minutes ) , then holdings can definitely be an option , but in that case published holdings are used as much as possible . Published holdings are designed to ensure terrain clearance down to a specified lower limit , and , importantly from an ATC perspective , have defined lateral separation minima to other traffic . We are not allowed to use radar separation to aircraft established in a holding , so separating traffic from someone holding in a non published holding would be quite a hassle - but for published holdings , holding areas are defined , to which we can use radar separation . Finally , the phraseology for entering a published holding is much shorter : SAS123 hold over ANDIE as published . If ATC needs to delay a flight for a short time ( say , less than 10 minutes ) , using radar vectors is usually much easier , both for the controller and the crew . It is much more flexible ( I can vector people around , and start creating a sequence 50 miles from the airport , even though there is no room near the airport yet ) and can be used to delay flights any number of minutes ( not just multiples of 4 ) . And the flight crew just needs to adjust their heading , no need to calculate holding tracks , compensating for current wind and so on . Of course there are cases , for example emergencies , where pilots may request to hold somewhere that does not have a published hold , and ATC will of course permit them to do so . But looking at the workload establishing a non published holding gives us , using a published holding or some other tool ( radar vectors ) is usually the preferred option .
Fuel is stored in fuel tanks , which typically have two requirements : They must be sealed so as to contain the fuel in all probable flight attitudes . ( Ideally they will keep it contained in a few improbable ones too . ) They must have appropriate plumbing to get the fuel to the engines . ( There are some exceptions to this , but <URL> . ) Anti-Shock bodies are typically not fuel tanks - they meet neither requirement as they are not watertight ( fuel will just pour out of them ) , and there 's no plumbing to get the fuel out of , or for that matter into them . As " Exhibit A " , take a look at the anti-shock bodies around the 787 flap tracks &amp; actuators - Note that the anti-shock body is hollow , but unsealed . Any fuel ( or water ) in here would simply pour out the trailing edge when the flaps are extended . <URL>
If some parts of the airfoil create lift and others a downforce , the center of pressure can be outside of the airfoil 's chord at low lift coefficients . This condition is fulfilled for cambered airfoils , airfoils with a deflected flap and especially for rear loading airfoils , which have low camber in the front and high camber in the rear part . Supercritical airfoils meet this last condition . In airfoil theory , an airfoil creates lift and a moment , because the lift is assumed to attack at the quarter chord point . This point is special because here the moment coefficient does not change with the angle of attack ( at least in the inviscid , linear potential theory , which is sufficiently close to reality at large Reynolds numbers to be useful ) . In reality , positive camber will cause the resulting lift force to act aft of the quarter chord point , and the pitching moment is negative . When lift becomes small and the pitching moment stays constant , the lever arm of that small lift needs to become large to achieve the same moment , and this is when the center of pressure can slip out of the airfoil 's chord . Below you see the result from XFRL5 V6 .0.5 . I plotted the local center of pressure as a green line . It 's elevation over the plane of the wing shows the amount of lift locally created , and the location in streamwise direction shows that it leaves the local chord when lift becomes low . Note that when moving out in spanwise direction the location jumps from far aft of the airfoil to far ahead when the local lift turns negative . At the point of no local lift you have a division by zero error , patched over here by a straight connection between the results from the single panels . <URL> Location of the local center of pressure on a swept wing ( own work ) . When angle of attack is increased , all additional lift has the Birnbaum distribution , so the local center of pressure moves towards the quarter-chord location .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
As far as I can find , the FAA does n't define the term landing so it could be argued either way . The " typical " <URL> is : 1 : an act or process of one that lands ; especially : a going or bringing to a surface ( as land or shore ) after a voyage or flight That definition does n't say that it has to be " controlled " or that the airplane has to be usable again ! Even if you decide that it was n't a " successful landing " , you could always get your third landing later if you are still allowed to fly , and then carry the passengers . So this brings us to the second part of your question : Are you allowed to fly after an accident ? Since you had an accident ( as defined by <URL> ) you must immediately notify the NTSB of the accident . Once you do that , you have 10 days to file the required report . At this point , you still have a valid pilot license and can legally fly another airplane . Chances are however , that you will be receiving a certified letter from the local FSDO requiring a reexamination in order to keep your license because your competence has been called into question . If you do n't call them to make an appointment , they will start the process to suspend your certificate . During this time , you can also continue to fly because you still have a valid license . The FAA can also use their emergency authority to immediately suspend your license if they feel that it is warranted . This can be appealed to the NTSB board if you feel that it is n't justified , and they have up to five days to respond . At this point you are not allowed to fly pending the response from the board . This , and a lot more information can be found on <URL> .
TCAS can deal with conflicts with multiple aircraft , a so called Multiple Threat Encounter . It will attempt to resolve the conflict but it will be limited in its options . Examples of a MTE are rare , one case I can point to is <URL> involving an aircraft turning into the approach stream between two aircraft instead of following the last in line . <URL> has reported on MTEs and the TCAS algorithm performance in 2009 . They report the majority of MTEs involved three aircraft , but mention one TCAS MTE involving seven aircraft .
The NTSB actually <URL> the use of exterior cameras to the FAA in 2012 . It appears to be <URL> a <URL> , but it looks like you should contact your local FSDO for approval of an <URL> if you 're permanently fixing a camera to a plane . The grey area comes in that if the camera is temporarily attached , you should n't need special approval , but in practicality it could come loose and damage the plane . GoPro says this about affixing their cameras to planes : Industrial strength suction cup . Strong enough to pull dents out of a car door or stay attached to an airplane at 200mph + , proven though not endorsed by GoPro per FAA rules . There 's a <URL> where someone asked the FSDO to sign it off as a Minor Alteration , and it was determined that a short logbook entry would suffice : Temporarily installed a GoPro camera mounted to a standard inspection panel on ( Left/Right ) lower wing in place of the standard inspection panel . There are no electrical connections associated with this installation . This is a minor alteration as it has no appreciable effect on performance , flight characteristics , or other qualities affecting airworthiness ( refer to FAR 1.1 Major Alteration and FAR 21.93 ) . A net weight change of 9 oz is incurred with the temporary installation ; therefore , the weight and balance change is negligible ( refer to AC 43.13 1B , 10-2 ( c ) ) .
You have almost solved the problem yourself . The <URL> does not help you because , for some reason , it assumes <URL> to be equal to UTC . For your problem , LMT needs to be for 85 ° of East longitude . So , ignore that website and let 's move on . For every degree of longitude , you calculate 4 minutes of difference from UTC . You have already correctly calculated the LMT difference from UTC for 85 ° E : First of all , what I 've done is converting longitude into time as follows : $ $ t = 85 \ cdot4 = 340 \ hspace { 1mm } min = 5h \ hspace { 1mm } 40m $ $ This leaves you with the question of whether to add or subtract this difference , as you stated : But then , in order to compute the UTC time , what do I have to do , either adding up this time to the current LMT or subtract it ( and what is the reason ) ? Let me start with the reason -- the explanation of why we want to either add or subtract the difference between LMT and UTC -- and then give you the solution . LMT can be thought of as roughly equivalent to time based on the Sun 's position . It is not equivalent to that , which is <URL> , but it is related . Keeping that approximation in mind , consider the difference in time between when the sun reaches solar noon over Delhi , and when the sun reaches solar noon over London . As the earth rotates , the sun reaches solar noon first over Delhi , and then , a few hours later , over London . Thus you know that UTC will be a few hours behind Delhi LMT . This means that you need to subtract the calculated difference between LMT and UTC . Another way to put this is : LMT for East longitude is ahead of UTC ( subtract the difference to find UTC ) , and LMT for West longitude is behind UTC ( add the difference to find UTC ) . Thus a more proper way to perform your calculation mathematically would be to properly incorporate the negative sign : $ $ t = -85 \ cdot4 = -340 \ hspace { 1mm } min = -5 h \ hspace { 1mm } 40m $ $ Therefore , if the LMT in Delhi ( LON = 85 ° E ) is 17:45 , then : $ $ UTC = 12h05m $ $
Here is what I am getting : <URL> : Sea level : 101300 Pa 30,000 feet : 30100 Pa Mach : Sea level1 ( 150 kt ) : 0.22 Cruise2 : 0.85 <URL> : 1.4 Using the equation : Landing : $ 3432.044 Pa = 73.68 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ Cruise : $ 15223.075 Pa = 317.94 lbf/ft ^ 2 $ So the high Mach in cruise more than compensates for the lower static pressure . <URL> agrees . 1Landing speeds for large jets are generally between 120-150 knots ( Mach 0.18-0 .22 ) . Smaller planes around 60 knots ( Mach 0.091 ) . You can convert to Mach <URL> or using a calculator like <URL> . 2Cruise speeds are generally between 240-280 kias ( knots indicated airspeed ) for large jets , which translates to around 450-500 knots ground speed and Mach 0.75-0 .85 ( depending on altitude and conditions ) .
I did high altitude training about three months ago , up to 30,000 feet simulated altitude . Here 's the timeline : Within 30 seconds ( oximeter 100-95 ) : noticed physical symptoms beginning . I could tell that something was wrong , but felt functional . Within 60 seconds ( oximeter ~ 90 ) : mild headache . Still able to write my name . Not feeling good , but acceptable . Within 3 minutes ( oximeter ~ 80 ) : Able to do simple tasks when specifically directed ( thread a nut onto a bolt ) , but completely unable to multitask at even the simplest things ( tried to put my pen down ... did n't notice that I missed the desk - it landed on the floor . ) Within ?? minutes ( oximeter ~ 70 ) : I am no longer able to perceive the passage of time . No longer able to take meaningful notes . My signature is still legible - instinctive muscle memory apparently does n't degrade nearly as fast . Within 6 minutes ( oximeter unknown ) : I have taken another pen from my pocket and am playing <URL> with it . This is much more interesting than paying attention to the directions from the instructors . I do n't notice anything odd about my behavior . Immediately after : An instructor gives me a direct command to put my mask on . I comply . Total time in chamber : 7 minutes . Time of useful consciousness in chamber : about 2 minutes So , to answer your question : It depends . I can safely say that seven minutes at 30,000 foot environment wo n't guarantee death ( because I 've survived it ) , and it wo n't guarantee severe brain injury ( they let me keep flying ) but on the other hand , I 'm young and I exercise . The best answer I can give is the same one that applies to <URL> : Just because the guy before you was able to do it , does n't mean you 'll be able to do it .
I 'll answer for the US . As long as there 's no official slot program , airlines can schedule however much they want to an airport , beyond what it should be capable of handling . Now that does n't mean ATC lets a free-for all happen . Hopefully , various traffic management units are on it and aware of how much demand is scheduled and already airborne into the airport/region/area that there 's too much demand , and will implement various flow control programs to moderate the volume to what can be accepted into a specific sector ( Certain airways can get super busy and require these types of actions ) , or airport . These control programs will either slow aircraft farther out from their destination , hold , or give small to longer delays on the ground , depending on how over scheduled or limitations of weather at the destination . [ Begin edit poriton ] Since the other part of the question was n't there when I first answered , I 'll answer now . Slot controls vary heavily from airport to airport . In the US , LGA , LGB , DCA , SNA , and at times JFK are slot controlled , with a few others threatened to go to slots due to how many delays they impact the system ( SFO , EWR , and ORD ) . How each airport deals with the slot allocation is different due to how they got slot controls . DCA is controlled partly through congress , LGA and SNA are restricted due to noise controls . In the US , once an airline gets a slot , often times it 's considered transferable property , so airlines can sell them to each other if needed . Now if a slot is n't used and goes back to the airport , the airport can put it up for bid , or allow applications for it , again depending on how their program is structured . AT DCA , some slots are transferable , some require an act of congress to change or modify , and some can only be used for certain routes or types of cities .
The pressure inside the cabin is usually more than the outside pressure at the cruise altitude . The pressure altitude ( ISA altitude with the same pressure ) inside the cabin of civil aircraft is called the equivalent effective cabin altitude or normally cabin altitude . As the aircraft climbs , the cabin altitude is gradually raised so that it reaches around 8000 ft for the aircraft cruising altitude of ~ 40000 ft. This level is maintained at flight ceiling too . <URL> Source : www.flyertalk.com The pressure is around 0.75 bar inside the cabin . The outside pressure at this point is around 0.2 bar , resulting in a pressure differential of 0.56 bar . This pressure differential causes stresses on the aircraft body . <URL> Source : ecnmag.com In addition to the stresses , pressurization - de-pressurizatoin cycle can cause fatigue in the windows . As reducing the cabin altitude will improve the passenger comfort , newer aircraft tend to have lower cabin altitudes . For example , the Boeing 787 has a pressure altitude of around 6000 ft and the Bombardier Global Express jet has a cabin altitude of around 4500 ft. This is achieved by the use of advanced composite materials , which allow a higher pressure differential have excellent fatigue properties compared to the metals . As a result , the windows of newer aircrafts are considerably larger than their predecessors . <URL> Image : Boeing
Sure . Almost all the modern supersonic combat aircraft incorporate a significant amount of composites in their construction . For example , <URL> : Composite materials are extensively used in the RAFALE and they account for 70 % of the wetted area . though they account for only 28 % of the structural weight . This is in line with other aircraft - for example , composites contribute to around 25 % of the weight of F-22 Raptor . <URL> Dassault Rafale structural materials ; image from <URL> You can see that the composites are extensively used in the wings , where the skins are made usually with composites , which enables them to be made in a single piece . The composite materials are superior to the metals used in aircraft in a number of performance parameters . The offer better strength to weight ratio and corrosion resistance , among others . <URL> , The RAFALE composite wing weighs the same as the MIRAGE 2000 metallic wing , but is 10 % larger and can sustain a load that is 20 % greater . Composite materials are being used increasingly more and more in case of high performance aircraft - not only in wings ( and radomes , where they have been used traditionally ) but also in interior load carrying members , which have been usually made from metals . Even in case of Rafale , the wing box is made from carbon fiber composite . Another reason for using composites , atleast in combat aircraft is for stealth . There are other areas in structural design , where the metals are better , for example , in <URL> and in high temperature areas , where titanium is extensively used . Still in other places like landing gear , steel is used . The image below shows the use of various materials in F-22 Raptor . <URL> Materials used in F-22 Raptor ; image from <URL> Again , the distribution is similar - composites make up majority of the wetted area while a minority of structural weight . In the end , the use of composites or metals are determined by their location and intended use .
The ILS , or precisely the components localizer and glidepath antennas can be shut off , as they are electronic devices that emit radio signals . They can be turned off and on by ATC where required , e.g. having the same ILS frequency for two opposite runways and you only want one to be active at the same time or they can be shut down by maintenance directly at the emitters . ILS are usually not powered by UPS , so they will not be available during power outages . If equipment is being shut down for maintenance or other reasons , you will see this mentioned in the <URL> , such as here from Cologne/Bonn Airport , where the glidepath portion of the ILS runway 24 is out of service : ( Source : <URL> )
The sprays are ( usually ) insecticides used to prevent the spread of invasive species and diseases . " The process of ' disinsection ' is required under the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) on flights to and from certain destinations to prevent infectious and contagious diseases carried by insects and other volatile bodies . Rules established by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) require that disinsection does not injure or cause discomfort to passengers or crew . These rules permit the use of certain insecticides , which have the approval of and are recommended by the WHO based on their effectiveness and safety . " From the <URL>
You 're referring to this statement in the <URL> : Some aircraft are equipped with an alternate static source in the flight deck . In the case of a blocked static source , opening the alternate static source introduces static pressure from the flight deck back into the system . Flight deck static pressure is lower than outside static pressure . The reason for this error with alternate static source is that the air flowing around the airframe creates a slight vacuum inside the airframe , thereby lowering the barometric pressure and generating erroneous readings in the pitot-static system .
Apparently yes . It has been mentioned in a number of places . <URL> is pretty simple : Step 1 : Approach locked lavatory Step 2 : Lift " LAVATORY " sign Step 3 : Slide the knob into the unlocked position Thats all to it , though they may vary with the aircraft . As @RalphJ points out in the comments , it should go without saying that unless you are cabin crew , you should not be doing this .
end question
start question
What does the term " trimming " most commonly mean in aviation ?
The purpose of trimming is to free the pilot from having to exert a constant pressure on the controls . This is often used to maintain straight and level flight , however trimming can also be used at any phase of flight - for example to maintain a constant rate of climb or descent . The most basic form , as found on most light aircraft is elevator trim . Usually operated by a wheel , it moves the elevator up or down by a small amount in the same sense as the yoke ( back to go up , forward to go down ) . This can be used to settle the aircraft into straight flight . Another form of trim is rudder trim . Often found in larger light aircraft and twin-engined aircraft it can be used to adjust for a crosswind to keep the aircraft flying straight . On multi-engine aircraft it can also be used to trim out the differential thrust caused by one engine failing .
The etiology of military power is from War Emergency Power ( WEP ) which in the WWII era was a higher than normal rating power ( i.e. > 100 % rated power ) setting on an aircraft engine . Such power settings were approved for short durations ( typically 5 minutes or less ) such as takeoff and battle maneuvers . The term was quickly shortened to military power . Sometimes military power is assumed to be simply full throttle , but that may not be accurate , particularly in blown engines , where turbochargers or superchargers may be set to permit higher than normal air delivery to the combustion chamber . Finally , military power was used for more extended periods of times , when conditions dictated , but at a reduction in reliability and service life . Sometimes in war , service life is not a pilot 's greatest concern .
When departing from a towered field pilots may request something other than a " standard " departure . As an example , consider the noise abatement procedures for my home field shown below : <URL> When departing from Runway 14 the standard noise-abatement departure for light aircraft requires you to turn south ( heading 190 ) when you pass the departure end of the runway . This is obviously inconvenient if your destination is to the north , so you can request a northbound departure . If the tower can accommodate your request they will clear you for the non-standard departure , usually with the phrase " left turn-out approved " or " northbound departure approved " , and a heading if necessary .
As far as I know , it is n't a standard aviation term , it 's just a casual phrase that he 's using to emphasize or remind himself about the stick movement he needs . It 's like your instructor telling you to " get dancing " on the rudder pedals : it 's not an aviation term as such , but it 's a very clear , descriptive reminder . In a three-point landing you pull the stick all the way back after touchdown to keep the tail down . That helps to prevent unwanted pitch movements and gets weight on the tailwheel to help with directional control on the ground ( as airspeed decreases and the rudder loses authority ) . Deflecting the stick to the right would be because of a crosswind from the right . Put those two things together , and the required stick movement is back and to the right , which is one " corner " of the range of motion it has .
Most modern military aircraft HUDs have two primary methods of displaying the velocity vector ( or flight path vector ) relative to the pitch ladder . Uncaged Mode When the HUD is operating in uncaged mode , the velocity vector remains fixed between the pitch ladder and , instead , the pitch ladder slews around the HUD . It is important to note that even though the velocity vector remains fixed between the pitch ladder , the velocity vector will always point in the instantaneous direction the aircraft is headed ( ie , in relation to the sum of all forces acting instantaneously upon the airframe ) . Thus , to compensate for the velocity vector 's fixed position on the pitch ladder , the entire pitch ladder slews around the HUD to indicate instantaneous velocity . I 've generally found this mode most useful for landing because the pitch ladder creates a massive target to bracket the field , and it is very obvious if there is any crosswind component because the pitch ladder will fly out as you roll onto final . Caged Mode In this mode the pitch ladder will remain in a fixed position and the velocity vector will fly out independently to indicate instantaneous velocity . Tactically speaking , this is generally the preferred mode because it is both less distracting ( the giant pitch ladder is n't bouncing everywhere ) and the pilot always has an artificial horizon to reference in the HUD during maneuvers . During tactical maneuvers its commonplace for the velocity vector to become HUD limited so having a stable horizon to reference greatly increases situational awareness . This Video To your specific question , this F16 is operating the HUD in uncaged mode . Every HUD has visual limits ( JHMCS withstanding ) and there are obvious visual limits on the HUD in this video . As the pilot commands the jet to increase the G-Load you can see that the pitch ladder rapidly disappears to the right of the screen . This is indicating that the aircraft is in a hard left hand turn and that the pitch ladder has become HUD limited . Once the G-loads relax , you can see the pitch ladder fly back into the center of the HUD . The pilot finishes the maneuver inverted by overbanking through the left hand turn . Further Comments Upon further review of the video it appears the pilot either ALOCs or GLOCs partway through his break turn at just over 8 Gs . This video is a pretty terrifying look at the realities of BFM training in the military . They started their exercise at 16,000 ft and the pilot aircraft 's Auto-GCAS in the video makes a supersonic recovery at 660kts , slightly below 3000ft AGL ! At that speed ejection could lead to possible death or permanent disfigurement , and the ground is a mere seconds from impact . His recovery altitude is well below safety altitude for BFM , and arguably within immediate ejection considerations ( There was an eagle driver that punched out at Mach 1 + during a similar GLOC episode when he woke up pointed at the ground seconds from death . His ejection nearly killed him . ) The pilot Auto-GCAS begins recovery at 55 degrees nose low , 8,500 ft MSL at 665 kts . The recovery is a max performance 9 G pull and takes roughly 7 seconds , during which point , while recovering , the aircraft loses an additional 4,500 ft. Just think , if the aircraft lost 4,500 ft during a 9G recovery , impact with the earth was well under 10 seconds had he not regained control of the aircraft .
It 's for the microphone ( the standard sized one is for the head phones ) . They are different size so the pilot knows to try the other hole if it does n't fit . From <URL> Commercial and general aviation ( GA ) civil airplane headset plugs are similar , but not identical . A standard 1⁄4 in monaural plug , type PJ-055 , is used for headphones , paired with special tip-ring-sleeve , 0.206 inch diameter plug , type PJ-068 , for the microphone . On the microphone plug the Ring is used for the microphone ' hot ' and the sleeve is common or microphone ' Lo ' .
That specific phrasing means that you ca n't touch a cloud . See the VFR minimums in <URL> , where it says : no person may operate an aircraft under VFR when the flight visibility is less , or at a distance from clouds that is less , than that prescribed for the corresponding altitude and class of airspace in the following table [ ... ] The table lists the " distance from clouds " in class B as " clear of clouds " . You can also find it in the <URL> on class B airspace , and in other sections about SVFR , visual approaches etc. where a requirement for those procedures is to remain clear of clouds . The actual cloud cover in the class B airspace is reported by METARs and ATIS .
If Seattle works anything like a number of major German airports , these instructions refer to literal coloured lines on the ground . Taxiway markings are usually yellow , but some large airports have started to use different colours for marking taxilanes on the apron ( " ramp " ) . This is a way of maximizing use of available space in areas used by many differently sized aircraft . One example is Munich , Germany ( EDDM ) where yellow , orange and blue taxi lines are used . <URL> ( snippet from APDC EDDM , from DFS ) Two medium sized aircraft can pass eachother when following the blue and orange lines , whereas a larger aircraft will have to follow the central yellow line , thus taking up the entire width of the taxiway . As @ymb1 pointed out in a comment , the system in KSEA appears to be similar . The colour of the taxilines are varied , and signs ( or markings on the ground ) describe the colour code for certain taxi lines : <URL>
The paperwork he was looking at is the dispatch release . This paperwork will have Crew names Fuel information Filed route of flight Alternates as needed Current weather Forecast weather at destination and alternates NOTAMS for departure , destination , alternates , navaids and anything along the route of flight . Deferred MEL items There are also probably a few things I 'm forgetting at the moment . When the captain gets the release the first thing to do is make sure it is for you -- correct crew names and airplane . You 'll check the route of flight and make sure it will work ( weather ) and evaluate the ordered fuel . You 'll review the destination weather , see if an alternate is needed and make sure a suitable one was filed . You 'll also check departure weather and make sure a takeoff alternate is specified if needed . If the paperwork is n't right , you call your dispatcher , otherwise you sign it and take it down to the airplane . The one-page item the captain got may have been a pre-departure clearance . These are generally available via ACARS but can be printed if needed at a terminal . They could also be other information such as ground delay programs or ground stop information that affects the flight .
I lived and flew in North Dakota for about three years . While I was there , people talked about ( and I experienced ) the delightful mixture of snow and dirt called snirt . It can be the result of plowing sanded roads , and also can be caused by the high winds that come out of Canada blowing dirt from fields onto areas still covered in snow . <URL> . I have a feeling that 's what was described by your friend . It appears in Wikipedia 's <URL> , but as far as I am aware it is not an FAA or NOAA term .
The FAA has a document on their website which breaks knowledge tests down by FSDO rather than state , and it gives a good idea of where the most training is taking place . It is called : <URL> , and lists the following Regions/FSDO 's as processing the most knowledge tests ( in descending order ) 1 : Southern 28,333 Orlando 9,996 South Florida 5,958 Alabama &amp; NW Florida 4,680 Atlanta 3,882 Tampa 2,504 Western Pacific 18,416 Scottsdale 6,053 Riverside 1,556 San Diego 1,463 Sacramento 1,460 Long Beach 1,327 Fresno 1,270 Los Angeles 1,142 San Jose 1,121 Southwest 15,943 Dallas 2,731 Fort Worth 2,581 Houston 2,438 Oklahoma City 2,347 San Antonio 2,321 Eastern 14,552 Richmond 1,956 Greensboro 1,366 Farmingdale 1,280 Philadelphia 1,198 New York City 1,069 Boston 1,041 Great Lakes 11,860 Fargo 2,120 Dupage 1,414 Indianapolis 1,358 Minneapolis 1,142 East Michigan 1,111 Northwest Mountain 9,784 Denver 2,205 Portland 2,131 Salt Lake City 1,964 Seattle 1,611 Central 9,019 Nashville 4,293 Wichita 1,304 Alaskan 812 Based on this data , I would say that the areas surrounding the Orlando , Scottsdale , South Florida , Alabama &amp; NW Florida , Nashville , and Atlanta FSDO 's are the most popular training areas , with the Southern region being the most popular by far . 1 To improve readability , all FSDO 's with less than 1,000 tests have been removed . See the source data for the complete list .
Aside from the obligatory <URL> answer , there are some components on an aircraft that will certainly fail at a higher rate than other components . From the Piston GA side of the equation I can name a few ( some of which are also applicable to turbine aircraft ) . Incandescent Light Bulbs A lightbulb is a supremely unreliable device : A delicate bit of wire is suspended in a thin glass envelope and heated until it glows - then subjected to vibration ( from the engines , turbulence , etc. ) in flight . We use them all over the airplane -- Position lights , landing lights , cockpit instrument lighting , etc. . If you think about how often incandescent light bulbs burn out in your house it 's probably not surprising that they fail quite often on aircraft . <URL> . We still use incandescent lightbulbs because they 're cheap : A $ 0.25 light bulb can be replaced multiple times before its cost even approaches the capital investment in a better solution . Modern aircraft are incorporating an increasing number of LEDs to replace incandescent lightbulbs - these solid-state devices have a lower failure rate ( and other benefits ) . Batteries Much like your car aircraft rely on batteries for some functions ( like starting the engines or the APU ) . Batteries have a finite service life and will eventually fail to hold a charge and need to be replaced . Sometimes <URL> . We still use batteries because hand-propping aircraft can be dangerous , and getting the APU turbine up to speed without a battery would be nearly impossible . Also if the engine-driven generators fail the battery is a useful source of electricity to help you get to a safe landing site . Spark Plugs Piston engines are spark-ignition , and spark plugs have a variety of failure modes ( they can become fouled with lead or carbon deposits , the internal resistor can fail , or the electrodes can simply wear out ) . These failures are not uncommon : Statistically if you fly piston aircraft long enough you 'll probably encounter at least one of them . We use spark plugs for obvious reasons : Unless the fuel is ignited it does n't generate any power . Without power the propeller does n't turn ( at least not very fast ) , so there 's no thrust . No thrust means no flying . Tires Tires are another aircraft component with multiple failure modes . Interesting ones include leaks ( air leaving the tire at a rate fast enough to be a problem ) , " catastrophic " failures where the tire explodes or disintegrates while rolling , and " self-protective " failures ( where the tire reaches a temperature that melts the fusible plug and causes it to deflate to prevent it from exploding ) . Tires are also used for an obvious reason : Aircraft that constantly belly-land require expensive maintenance ( to say nothing of the damage they do to the airport ) , and the alternatives - skis , pontoons , or flying boats - are limited in the areas from which they can operate . Air Filters On piston engines there is normally an intake air filter which is designed to keep dust and grit out of the engine . These filters can fail by becoming clogged ( which I suppose is n't really a failure : The filter is doing its job ) , and certain paper filters can fail by disintegrating and being ingested into the engine ( the FAA has issued <URL> on this subject ) . We still use air filters - even the paper kinds that can disintegrate - because ingesting dirt into a piston engine greatly accelerates wear . The required maintenance on the air filter costs less than increased overhaul frequency .
Flight inspections are flights performed to measure the performance of the communication , navigation and surveillance ( CNS ) infrastructure of air traffic control . Flight tests are required to examine the signals-in-space as received at the aircraft after being influenced by external factors such as site conditions , ground conductivity , terrain irregularities , metallic structures , propagation effects , etc. . source : ICAO DOC8071 In this case the inspection flight seemed to be performed to inspect the performance of the Instrument Landing System at <URL> . The aircraft did numerous approaches on runway 25 and flew across the localizer twice at approximately 11 km ( 6NM ) from the runway threshold . This is a normal procedure for ILS testing . <URL> For those interested in the details of the ILS testing procedure seen on FR24 , it is described in section 4-10 of ICAO Document 8071 , Manual on Testing of Radio Navigation Aids , Volume I ( Testing of ground-based navigation systems ) .
Aviation headsets are just like gaming headsets on a computer or console gaming system , except they are sturdier and much more expensive . At the basic end of the spectrum , an aviation headset is just a big clamp style pair of around the ear headphones with a microphone . The cable from the headset has 2 plugs ( for airplanes ) or one plug ( for helicopters ) . These two plug styles are equivalent electronically , with the helicopter cable having an extra conductor in order to include the microphone and headphones in the same plug . The two-plug variant has one plug for the headphones and one of the microphone . These differ from gaming headsets in that the headphone plug is 0.25 " ( the kind a nice stereo receiver uses ) and the microphone plug is 0.206 " . This difference in sizes is to avoid mixing up which plug goes in which jack . Aviation headsets fall into two broad categories : passive noise reduction and active noise reduction ( ANR ) . The passive noise reduction headsets rely on a good seal around the ear and a strong clamping force ( e.g. David Clarks ) . Active noise reduction are somewhat less " clampy " and provide less passive protection but make up for this with the active protection . An ANR headset is money well spent , but these do top out at around \ $ 850 - \ $ 1000 for the top models from Lightspeed and Bose respectively . ANR headsets must be powered to work properly but all ANR headsets still function without power as passive noise reducing headsets . Power for an ANR headset can come from a battery box or from aircraft power but not interchangeably . Aircraft power requires panel installation of a plug specific to the headset brand ( a single connector provides power , headphone and microphone connections ) . In general , unless you happen to own an airplane and install the power plug , you should get the battery version of a headset . The primary purpose of these headsets is to reduce the noise in the cockpit ( they can be very loud ) in order to avoid hearing loss ( yes , it is that loud ) and to facilitate clearer communication with ATC . For quieter airplanes there are in-ear headsets that have more in common with earbuds than the bigger headsets . Some of these are just earplugs wired for sound and some use molds of your ear to provide the seal . The headset is connected to the airplanes audio panel . Audio panels vary in complexity but their basic job is to provide an intercom for communication between occupants of the airplane and access to the com radio for communication with ATC . The audio panel is also able to monitor ( listen ) the navigation radios certain types of beacons . In transport aircraft the audio panel is also tied into the passenger address system and the flight attendant 's phones in the cabin . The headsets can be operated in a hot mic setup or the mic can be explicitly turned on and off . The hot mic is the usual method and the audio panel provides a squelch control so you are n't broadcasting the cockpit noise when not talking . The ATC transmissions are via a push-to-talk ( PTT ) switch . Aviation headsets for the most part do not need to be approved to use in airplanes , but in some situations for US registered aircraft , the requirement of an approved headset can be mandated ( some ( all ? ) 121 carriers ) . The FAA standards for approval are specified in TSO C-57a and C-58a . You 'll find many , but certainly not all , aviation headsets conform to these orders . They define minimum performance characteristics of the electronics , speakers , microphones , etc that make up the headset . How much hearing protection is needed depends greatly on the specific airplane in question . Jets can be on the very loud end of the spectrum ( EMB-145 ) or they can be quiet enough that even passive noise reduction is largely unnecessary . For the noisy end of the spectrum peak wavelengths can be well in excess of 100 dB . I can find reports of 130 db in some smaller airplanes and reports of 84 db in a 737 during cruise , but these numbers are all anecdotal in nature . What is important to take from these is not the specific numbers but that they are high enough to cause hearing loss during prolonged exposure . The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders defines 85 dB as the threshold for hearing damage from long or repeated exposure . Passive headsets generally advertise noise reduction around 20 dB ( 23 dB for the venerable David Clarks ) and some people will wear earplugs under a headset to further increase the passive noise reduction . A cursory look at ANR headsets reveal that they tend not to advertise their performance and instead specify maximum ambient noise levels for ANR to properly function ( around 120-125 dB for Bose and Lightspeed headsets ) . I can personally add an anecdote that both the Lightspeed Zulu and Bose X make dramatic changes in noise level ( both of these headsets are now outdated and replaced by newer versions ) . For most smaller airplanes you will wear the head
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
Based on the ATA iSpec 2200 , ATA Standard Numbering System , which provides a standard for structuring maintenance data by the manufacturers . The structure helps the airlines by providing a common structure regardless of manufacturer . While voluntary , most aircraft manufacturers use it . The spec is organized into chapters by aircraft system . ATA Chapter 32 is LANDING GEAR . Chapter subsections cover subsystems . Subsection -10 is Main Gear and Doors and subsection -20 is Nose Gear and Doors . So that 's the ' common ' terminology in the aircraft manufacturing and maintenance world .
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
Probably not . Depending on how poor your planning was ( or appeared to be ) you may have nothing happen , have letter placed in your file ( not a violation ) , receive a violation , have to make a 709 ride with a Fed , or have your cert suspended , or maybe even a combination of some of these . If you were a real goober and just went flying without checking fuel , and then lied about checking fuel , and then get caught lying to federal investigators then , yeah , revocation is a realistic possibility . They do n't like liars . They can deal with stupid mistakes , but they will not tolerate a liar . / / thanks for the edit but was written as a runon / /
Proficiency in English is something very much required in aviation . One other major accident I remember is the <URL> , which resulted in 349 fatalities , and one of the major reasons was believed to be the poor English of Kazakh Airlines crew . Keeping such importance of English in mind , and the need to standardize English testing and training , the <URL> has issued <URL> Training Candidates are trained for Aviation English in a very similar way to it would be for any other purpose , other than ensuring the following points : Use of operationally relevant , work-related language . Exposure to an aviation environment . Practical training activities such as Listening practice in ATC lab . Testing The Test of English For Aviation is a test Developed by <URL> in accordance with ICAO 's ratings . Here is how the candidates are tested in TEA : TEA candidates can score from Level 1 to Level 6 but most candidates score Level 3 , 4 or 5 . Candidates are awarded a mark from 1 to 6 for each of the 6 skills : pronunciation , structure , vocabulary , fluency , interactions , comprehension . <URL>
Since the 1960 's and 1970 's when political hijackings were a problem , airplanes started to only carry the fuel required for the flight . This means a typical fuel load will be something on the order of : taxi fuel at the departure airport fuel to fly and land at the destination at a given altitude and forecast winds if an alternate is needed : fuel to fly to the alternate airport 45 minutes of reserve fuel perhaps a bit extra for contingency and to keep captains happy ( e.g. 5-15 minutes worth of fuel ) . For a normal flight this means you 'll land with around 45-60 minutes of fuel on board , sometimes less . You 'll fill up for the next leg at this airport while you deplane and enplane passengers . Fuel at the hub airports is sometimes a bit cheaper due to the fuel contracts the airline can secure when they order massive amounts of fuel every day . Fuel at outstations that do n't see a huge volume of fuel may be quite a bit more expensive . In this case , and if your weights allow , the airline may elect to load extra fuel that is n't needed . The purpose of this is so you do not need to buy as much fuel at higher prices at the outstation . I only saw this happen operationally when we were going to be very light and the outstation fuel was very expensive . Usually our loads were high enough that we were struggling to get all 50 passengers , bags , and especially jumpseaters on board with the required fuel load . In that case it would not be economical to take more fuel because we 'd have to take fewer passengers .
end question
start question
How are aircraft filmed in sky ?
Two words : chase planes . A few more words : The easiest way to film an airplane in flight is with another airplane in flight . <URL> , including images captured from both sides ; the chase plane ( a Learjet 25B ) getting the shots of the 787 Dreamliner , and crew aboard the Dreamliner getting a few snapshots of the chase plane . Early shots taken from chase planes often used simple handheld cameras ; a two-seater would normally be used with the pilot in front and the photographer in back . This is still a totally viable way to do it , but more modern professional shoots utilize aircraft specifically modified for the task by adding internal or external camera mounts , optical-quality viewports , etc. . Here 's a modified T-33 used by Boeing specifically for air-to-air photography , including some of the initial publicity shots of the 787 in flight ; notice the camera mount between the seats that can be used by the GIB ( he 's using a handheld in this photo : For lower-speed shots , you can also use a helicopter . Many of these such as news choppers have remote-control cameras on gyro-stabilized mounts , so the vibration of the airframe is minimized in the shot even at high zoom : These same camera systems can be used for air-to-air shots as well , however the maximum airspeed of the helicopter becomes a limiting factor . Still great for publicity shots of small prop planes , or takeoffs/landings .
How do the engineers , maintenance team , etc know if an aircraft has metal fatigue ? First of all , is not an " aircraft " that has fatigue , but a component . To the naked eye , there is no way to detect metal fatigue until it starts being too late : you can only see cracks that are already forming and/or propagating . There are tools available to allow for early detection , my bachelor 's thesis was about one of these : the <URL> of certain materials is used . A light coat of one such material is applied on the new component and the photoelastic properties and exams done during the lifetime of the component tell the maintenance people what is the current status of the inner layers of the piece . Another method uses electric resistance , as metal fatigue , by cracking the metal , increases the resistance . Depending on the scenario , X-rays could also be used . What do they do to " minimize " metal fatigue or repair it ? You can not minimize fatigue , once it starts setting in , it is an irreversible process . You can delay the likely catastrophic failure by applying strengthening elements around the affected one , but the safest course of action is to replace the component and recycle the old one .
Route times are pretty well known . If you know when the plane should depart and how long the flight should last , it 's pretty easy to calculate when it will be arriving . Give a few minutes leeway on either side , and you should be good . If the plane is not there on time , you send it somewhere else . Most large aircraft have some sort of <URL> that allows them to talk to company dispatch and let them know if they 're going to be early or late , among other things . Barring that , they almost always have a company radio frequency that they can relay messages on one way or another .
For an application that were controlling a hobbyist UAV one could use something like the Google Maps API . It provides services and data that will scale as the user scrolls in and out and as the UAV transitions to different areas . It also has the advantage of having visual and road data as an option . The downside is that unless you download enough data ahead of time you must have some sort of data connection to the application . But , with the greater availability of the fast cell based data connections this is becoming less of an issue .
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
Well , the 3 points you make are easily demonstrable to be true , and also a fairly unique feature of all three if looked at side-by-side . The 747 is the only one with an obvious hump towards the front of the aircraft . This upper row of windows is unlike either of the other two Photo Aldo Bidini : : source : <URL> The A380 has an entire upper row of windows - it does indeed have 2 full decks . Richard Vandervord source : <URL> If it has 4 engines , but neither a half upper deck and hump or a full upper deck ( and it 's an airbus ! ) then yes it is an A340 Aero Icarus source : <URL> However , that is not all the 4 engine passenger aircraft . The BAe 146 is a 4 engine regional airliner , and you could add to your distinguishing features " has a T-tail , must be a 146 " Adrian Pingstone source : <URL> And then we 're into the Ilyushins . The Il-96 , is easily distinguishable from the similar ( ish ) A340 as it is considerably smaller - hard to tell from a close-in photo , but in real life if one were parked next to the other the IL-96 is smaller . Anna Zvereva source : <URL> The Il-86 has 4 engines but does not fit your criteria , as it only remains in service with the Russian Military , but the Il-62 is still in commercial service . It 's very easy to distinguish by having its 4 engines mounted on the tail Tim Rees source : <URL>
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
The <URL> ( section 2-4-20 ) say that the ' group form ' should be used by controllers when talking to any aircraft with an FAA authorized call sign . So you would expect to hear it with airline traffic but not private flights : Air carrier and other civil aircraft having FAA authorized call signs . State the call sign followed by the flight number in group form . NOTE - " Group form " is the pronunciation of a series of numbers as the whole number , or pairs of numbers they represent rather than pronouncing each separate digit . The use of group form may , however , be negated by four-digit identifiers or the placement of zeros in the identifier . EXAMPLE − " American Fifty − Two . " " Delta One Hundred . " " Eastern Metro One Ten . " " General Motors Thirty Fifteen . " " United One Zero One . " " Delta Zero One Zero . " " TWA Ten Zero Four . "
Triple-redundant systems have four independent members , so if one fails , a two-to-one vote of the remaining three is still possible . However , often the term " triple redundant " is used when the system has only three members . And if all three disagree , two of them must be faulty already , so this is a case of multiple failures . In case of Airbus , besides the three main FCS computers two backup systems are available to help isolate the faulty one . Inside , each has two channels which run software written by a different team , run on a processor different to the one in the other channel and which are supplied by two different suppliers . This helps to reduce systematic errors , when all together would fail because of a common malfunction . <URL> Airbus flight control system diagram ( picture <URL> ) . Only the first system of each is expanded ; the boxes for system 2 and 3 look the same on the inside . Input is from the side sticks , and output goes to the hydraulic valves at the control surfaces . The voting happens first in the comparator step ( between the two channels ) and again in the filters ( between the single systems ) .
Non-holographic radar systems such as those used in fighter aircraft and active guided missiles only point in one direction at a time . Normally , when the radar is in search mode , a mechanism inside the radar makes the beam move from side to side ( possibly up and down as well ) , so it has a wider field of view and can pinpoint the direction of any aircraft it finds . The aircraft with the radar warning receiver ( RWR ) sees a brief pulse of radiation every second or so : only when the beam is pointing in its direction . This way , it knows the radar emitter is in search mode , and the direction of the emitter . Every aircraft in the radar 's field of view will see the beam at different times , and they will all see the radar on their RWR screens . In a combat zone this is potentially a lot of emitters , but the RWR can analyse the radar signal to identify the radar : what type of aircraft , SAM , or ground radar it is , and whether it 's friendly or enemy . Getting the position of the target only every second is n't good enough to guide a missile towards it . When the radar is in track or launch mode , it stops scanning the beam , and keeps it pointed at the target aircraft . The RWR on the target aircraft now sees much faster pulses of radiation , so it knows that it is the sole target of the radar . At this time , it can warn the pilot of a missile lock . But because the radar is now only pointing in this one direction , other aircraft in the area do n't get illuminated by radar at all . Their RWR systems wo n't pick anything up . Only the aircraft that 's actually threatened gets the missile lock warning . In addition , the same analysis that can identify what type of radar is illuminating the aircraft can also identify fully active radar-guided missiles . Like when the aircraft 's radar is in track or launch mode , the missile 's radar emitter only points in one direction , and does n't scan , so only the target aircraft will see it . Obviously it 's a little bit more complicated than this . There are a lot of details about how frequent the radar pulses are , and how the RWR knows the range of the source , but I hope I 've captured all the important information in an understandable way .
Well one major difference is the blade pitch , pusher props will seem to be backwards . You must also modify the engine 's bearings to be able to support the propeller mounting and crankshaft in compression , rather than tension . A pusher prop 's engine also has to be cooled differently than a tractor , because the propeller is not blowing air over the engine . Therefore some ducting and ram air magic has to be done , or some other system of cooling implemented . Many pusher-type planes have had severe issues with cooling . Note : some of the next few might not necessarily apply to pusher-type planes where the engine is mounted above the fuselage , like the Lake Amphibian and many other seaplanes , or some other oddities like the B-36 . I am talking about more conventional pushers like the Velocity , Beech Starship , or Cessna 337 . Another issue is FOD . A pusher prop will likely be mounted behind at least one of the wheels , which can kick dirt and rocks up into the propeller . Now imagine a prop that is very close to one of the mains . Even on paved runways you encounter rocks and debris occasionally , and it only takes one hit in the right place to produce a failure-causing nick . Compounding on that last one , when a tractor-type plane takes off , beacause the prop is forward of the center of mass , the propeller will rotate up , away from the ground . But a pusher prop is usually just the opposite : it will rotate down a bit , increasing the chances of a prop-strike . This is one that is heavily considered and worked-around while building pusher-type planes , but while you can mitigate the danger by placing the prop closer to the CM , or making the landing gear taller , you ca n't completely remove it as far as I know .
In the Falcon 50 and 900 , we have windshield wipers that we are allowed to use in flight ( up to 205 KIAS ) , but I have never used or seen them used in the eight years that I have been flying them because they simply are n't needed . They are usually stowed out of the wind stream so do n't really cause much drag . The Learjet 's on the other hand DO have hot air that blows on the windshield and we sometimes used it to blow water droplets off of the windshield when on the ground . However , the primary purpose of the hot air was to heat and defog the windshield . On a larger airplane , the additional piping , valves , etc. required to get the hot air all of the way up to the windshield actually weighs and costs more than just putting the windshield wipers up there along with electrically heated windshields to keep them from fogging up .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
The short answer is that the final qualification tests are done against drones like the <URL> , which are converted from retired F-4 fighters . These tests are still extremely expensive , into the millions per aircraft destroyed , so there are many dry runs and non-destructive tests completed beforehand . Sacrificing a target drone is n't done until the project team is very confident of a positive result or they are unable to obtain necessary data by other means .
Primarily steering is accomplished in two main ways : Steerable nosewheels - Usually limited to tricycle undercarriage , and usually controlled using the same left/right pedals as control the rudder in flight Using the rudder itself - Often associated with the traditional undercarriage ( tail draggers to some ) . In this case the rudder works on the ground in much the same way as it does in the air - ie , deflecting the rudder pushes the tail in the opposite direction , thus causing the nose to pivot in the required direction . In addition , steering can be augmented in two ways Differential braking - often the left and right main undercarriage have their own deferentially controlled brakes . These are usually controlled by " hats " on the top of each rudder pedal . By applying greater braking pressure to , for example , the left wheel will cause the aircraft to pivot more around that wheel causing a left-turning tendency . Differential thrust - in a similar vane to above , greater thrust applied to the left engine will cause a right turning tendency .
Are there general aviation aircraft that have more than 2 " ranges " Yes . <URL> . The loading graphs look like this : Note also that the aircraft is certificated in both the Normal and Utility category , and the weight/CG ranges are different ( Utility being a subset of what 's permissible for Normal category operations ) - so there are two different operating envelopes that must be considered .
Checklists can be in any language . For general aviation I 've seen check-lists in a variety of languages . Sometimes in the local language and sometimes in English - that 's in Germany , Spain and Sweden . Spain in particular seemed to have everything in Spanish . From colleagues I 've heard that France is similar , most GA check-lists are in French . For commercial aviation it varies by airline . Air France , for instance , publishes its check-lists in French ( an example of these can be seen in the <URL> )
does a worker go to an airport and monitors all information , and choose what kind of approach/departure ( for example ) will be ? Or do airport workers advise regulators ( charts creators ) ? Yes . :) Airport/airspace procedures are mainly created by a country 's local aviation authority , so if you want an instrument approach to your private airstrip in the US you would contact <URL> , probably through someone at your local FSDO , and ask them to work with you to develop the procedure . The Procedures people will survey the approach and design a procedure that makes sure you wo n't hit anything on the ground , and ensure that your procedure wo n't conflict with other existing procedures . Once the procedure is designed they 'll test-fly it - that 's done <URL> - and if everything checks out they 'll publish charts for it . Once published the FAA will periodically re-evaluate then procedure , both through flight checks and other feedback ( if your new procedure is generating a lot of noise complaints for example the FAA will work with you to reduce the impact ) .
The metal of the tanker 's boom ( or drogue ) contacts the metal of the receiver 's receptacle ( or probe ) first , and that contact is maintained , so that would serve to ground the two aircraft to each other . It 's a good question , but I 've never heard of any fuel explosions due to static buildup during air-to-air refueling , so evidently the systems in place alleviate the risks . Aerial refueling is pretty routine these days , so in relative terms it would seem to be fairly safe . Purging the fuel lines is a relative term ; you could remove the liquid fuel from the lines , but you 'd still have vapors , and those are more flammable than the liquid jet fuel itself . Maybe somebody who flew ( or flies ) tankers can discuss how far down the boom the fuel goes BEFORE everything is connected and they start pumping ; as a receiver I just remember that the fuel flowed into the manifold and then into the tanks . We did n't do anything special to clear the manifold or fuel lines on our end . There ARE some inherent risks when refueling between two aircraft flying in close formation that are accepted ( i.e. the risk level is okay for the military mission , but nobody does it for commercial airliners ) , but I do n't think this is one of them .
end question
