start question
What is what I 'm doing called ?
This technique -- searing or marking on the grill or stove top , then finishing in an oven -- is called <URL> .
It is honeydew honey . It is not made from nectar , but from tree parasite secretions . It has a quite different taste from regular flower/nectar honey , and it is much darker . Sometimes it is also called forest honey . Wikipedia has a paragraph on it : <URL> There is a slim possibility that it is not a real honey at all , but pine honey , which is actually a jelly made from pine flowers/leaves ( it uses the fresh tips where the needles are very soft ) . It is used as a bee honey substitute , not a fruit jelly substitute , and the name also includes the word " honey " , so there is a chance for miscommunication , especially if a language barrier is present . But I think you 'd have described the taste differently . It is also a richer taste than normal honey , but a bit sharper , not caramel-like mellow , and the pine resin aroma is discernible .
A kitchen rag is typically a white , rectangular towel that has various duties in a professional kitchen . Some of the uses include : wiping-down counter tops , sopping-up spills , securing cutting boards ( use DAMP rags ) , and grabbing hot pans ( use DRY rags ) . Generally , it is a good idea to wash your hands with soap and a sink . Often kitchen rags are used to clean debris from the hands between preparing food items . Usually the rags are dropped-off , picked-up , and washed by an outsourced service provider ( e.g. Cintas ) . The kitchen rags from these providers often have a thin , colored line that runs lengthwise down the towel . If you would like to find some for your home , try searching ' bar mops ' . They are essentially the same as kitchen rags , and are usually very cheap .
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
Freezer burn is just the food being dehydrated . Most meat will change color , and it becomes very obvious if you defrost it . It 's not unsafe : just yucky .
Blind baking is indeed just baking without a filling -- it can be fully or partially . Typically you do this because your filling will either need to bake for a shorter time than your crust ( a quiche for example ) or not at all ( a pie filled with some kind of pre cooked/set custard ) . It can also be done to help ' set ' a crust against a filling that will make it rather soggy . Oftentimes you will want something neutral in the shell to keep it from becoming a big bubbly , puffed up crust . This may be in the form of formal ' pie weights ' or just a piece of parchment paper and some dry beans will suffice . I have no idea why it 's called blind baking , but the <URL> site is notoriously good at word origins .
Raspberries are n't just seeds and juice , though they 're certainly not as fleshy as some fruits . The difference between apple puree ( apple sauce ) and apple juice is much more obvious . In any case , you should be fine forcing them through a sieve as you suggest .
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
Sourdough bread is bread that has been all or partially risen with the help of wild yeast . It is made sour because of wild lactobacilli that are picked up with the wild yeast . Where the yeast eat sugar and produce CO2 for rising - the bacteria create acid and other compounds that make the bread sour and distinctly flavored . Because of the wild nature of the microbes , the bread will taste a little different in every place that it is made . The lactobacillus that gives San Fransisco sourdough bread its characteristic flavor is actually named Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis . The starter can be a hassle to make and to keep . It requires almost daily attention to feed it and can waste a fair amount of flour unless you bake bread frequently . You can freeze the starter but it will require a few days of feeding before it can be used again . Many baked recipes besides bread are also delicious with sourdough starter . Sourdough waffles or coffeecake are fantastic . Whether it is worth the effort is a personal decision . Many people do n't like the flavor and you would have to love the flavor enough to make almost every bread with that flavor to justify the starter upkeep . Personally - I used to keep a starter but my kids do n't like the flavor and I got tired of all my bread tasting the same . I just buy a loaf for the 2-3 times a year that I am craving a Reuben sandwich .
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
The way my French boyfriend and French roommate ( both with Spanish grandmothers ) pronounce the name , it does sound like " Monte Cows , " or " monte cailloux . " As far as I have been explained this cookie have resulted from a mix ofMuslim/Ottoman cuisine and Spanish cuisine ; it 's definitely not French . It is also affectionately referred to as a " poor person 's cookie " because of its super-simple ingredients . The recipe is a simple ratio of 3:2:1 -- 3 parts flour , two parts sugar , one part oil ( we 've used canola or peanut , both work well ) . We 've used measuring cups or just regular mugs or even small bowls and it has worked every time . If they 're a tiny bit dry and crumble too easily when you 're shaping them , adding a tiny bit more oil helps keep everything together . Cinnamon sprinkled on top is great , and I tried adding a tiny half-teaspoon of almond extract once .
Put the pesto in just as the sauce is done and as you 're taking it off the heat . Generally , pesto does not benefit at all from cooking . By adding it to the sauce just as it is being pulled from the heat , it 's temp will equalize with the sauce , without being cooked . Are you planning to serve this over pasta ? If so , drain the pasta ( save some of the pasta water ) while the pasta is still quite al-dente . Simmer and stir the pasta in the sauce for a minute or so . If it needs a bit of thinning out , add reserved pasta water . Only when it feels about ready to serve , add the pesto , again just as you remove it all from the heat . If you are planning on cooking the pasta for a while in the sauce , as in soup , I encourage you to reconsider . I recommend that you make the sauce awesome . When the sauce just seems right , boil your pasta until al-dente ( do n't forget to salt ) . Add the pasta to the sauce , slowly , not too much , not too little . Use the reserved pasta water to get just the right consistency . Let it all simmer for a minute or two , let the pasta soak up the flavor . THEN , when it all looks great , add the pesto , stir , turn off the heat , and serve .
I 'll attempt to expand upon daniel 's answer above . Boudin describes a sausage that is generally created from a blend of beef , rice , and/or pork ( <URL> ) . Sometimes other types of proteins are added to create variations : Gator , Shrimp , crawfish , etc. . Boudin is widely known to be used in Cajun cooking . Other various types of Boudin exists . As wikipedia defines various different types of boudin : Boudin blanc : A white sausage made of pork without the blood . Pork liver and heart meat are typically included . In Cajun versions , the sausage is made from a pork rice dressing [ ... ] In French/Belgian cuisine , the sausage is sauteed or grilled . The Louisiana version is normally simmered or braised , although coating with oil and slow grilling for tailgating is becoming a popular option in New Orleans and Baton Rouge . Boudin noir : A dark-hued blood sausage , containing pork , pig blood , and other ingredients . Variants of the boudin noir occur in French , Belgian , Cajun and Catalan cuisine [ ... ] Shrimp Boudin : Similar to crawfish boudin , it is made by adding the shrimp to rice [ ... ] [ 4 ] Boudin rouge : In Louisiana cuisine , a sausage similar to boudin blanc , but with pork blood added to it . This originated from the French boudin noir . Brown Rice Boudin : Taste is very similar to traditional pork boudin , except this boudin > is made with a brown-rice substitute for those looking to cut down on white rice intake .
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
Here 's a picture of some raw ground beef from the Wikipedia <URL> article so that you can see for yourself . Basically it is beef that has been run through a meat grinder , great for making taco meat , hamburgers , and the like .
First of all - glucose is a different sugar than table sugar . Corn syrup in the US is similar but has a few extra compounds . As far as I can tell it is used for similar reasons as liquid glucose in the EU . <URL> It is used for a couple reasons : it is thicker than sugar syrups . when making candy a little corn syrup can be added to the sugar solution to prevent crystallization . in the US at least , it is much cheaper than cane sugar . You can buy it in stores here - I ca n't say whether you can in Belgium . I have , on occasion , been forced to use a very thick sugar syrup in place of corn syrup . The recipe used the syrup for reason # 1 above and turned out well . If it had been in there for reason # 2 it would have been less successful . In general , if you can find it , it is probably better to buy than to make a substitute because of reason # 3 .
I do n't have any info on the affect of pH , but cornstarch can make your compote separate when canned : <URL> . Two alternative thickeners are tapioca and clearjel . I 've used clearjel for canning with excellent results . I have n't used tapioca to can , but do prefer it in my pies . ( posted as an answer per Sobachatina 's recommendation )
From <URL> : Rotisserie is a style of roasting where meat is skewered on a spit -- a long solid rod used to hold food while it is being cooked over a fire in a fireplace or over a campfire , or roasted in an oven . A spit is a long solid rod :) ( as confirmed by <URL> )
It 's called honeyjack when freeze distilled . I have n't seen any specific name for steam distilled mead , so it 's likely fine to use the same name for both products . Mead can also be distilled to a brandy or liqueur strength . A version called " honey jack " can be made by partly freezing a quantity of mead and straining the ice out of the liquid ( a process known as freeze distillation ) , in the same way that applejack is made from cider . <URL> Unfortunately there are a number of " honey brandies " and " honey liqueurs " that are simply other liquor bases with honey added for flavor and sweetness . Also , see the discussion on <URL>
They 're something leaf-like . If you look closely , you 'll find that they are n't just markings , they can be pulled away from the stem . There does n't seem to be a lot of agreement about the best name ; you 'll see " scales " and " leaves " in plenty of informal contexts , and " bracts " in some ( but not all ) more formal contexts . On Food and Cooking says they 're bracts , and actually mentions why they might be there : The stalk does n't support ordinary leaves ; the small projections from the stems are leaf-like bracts that shield immature clusters of feathery photosynthetic branches . That cluster inside them is what makes them <URL> : In botany , a bract is a modified or specialized leaf , especially one associated with a reproductive structure such as a flower , inflorescence axis , or cone scale . <URL> . That 's a bit vague about where it actually is on the plant , but there 's an image later in the article making it clear what they 're referring to : <URL> Oddly , <URL> goes into a bit more detail : In asparagus ( Asparagus officinalis ; Asparagaceae ) , the scales found on the asparagus spears are the true leaves . If the thick , fleshy asparagus spears continue to grow , flat , green , leaflike structures called cladodes develop in the axils of the scale leaves . That does match the definition of bract . Asparagus is only tender enough to eat when pretty young , though , so perhaps when you eat it those cladodes have n't developed yet . That 's still the purpose of the scales , though . In any case , it sounds like " scale " vs " bract " may just be a difference in precision and perspective .
end question
start question
How do I roast beets to easily remove the skins ?
The trick that works for me consistently is to put the beets in a sealed container while still hot and let them cool down that way , they continue to cook a bit and the steam from them keeps the skins loose . Also , peel them while they are still warm , if they cool too much the skins may adhere again .
Trout - fried in butter with almond chips . Simple , quick , utterly sublime ...
A surprisingly good way to remove oil stains ( even that have set in and gone through the dryer ) is using dish soap . Rub it in , let it sit for a bit , and then wash it out .
The method we use ( for coffee ) is pretty simple ( though it requires some compatible equipment ) : Fill kettle . Shove probe thermometer through " whistle " hole in kettle spout . Heat until desired temperature is reached . Pour water into vessel . If you do n't have a kettle or your thermometer wo n't work , you can do the same thing with any pot and a thermometer that has a clip ( so you do n't have to hold it for 10 minutes while the water heats ) ... but be sure the thermometer is heat safe ( candy thermometers are good for this if they have a high enough temp range ) . You 'll want to keep a couple of things in mind ... The temperature of your mug will cool the water when it makes contact . This is unlikely to make a huge difference but it 's something to think about . If you really want to brew your tea at exactly 70 C , consider heating sufficient water to " warm " your cup ( or teapot ) by filling it part way and swishing the water around to heat up the cup first and then pour the water down the drain . Alternately , you can heat your water to a slightly higher temperature ( 72 C ) . As to your other methods ... I 'm sure any of them would work just fine ... they 'd take longer , though , because you 're waiting for something to boil and then you 're waiting for it to cool off or you 're futzing around with getting it back down to the " right " temperature by adding cool water or tossing it back and forth between cups . Provided you have standard , municipal water that you 're comfortable drinking from the tap ( or filtered ) , I do n't know why boiling it first would matter . I 'm also skeptical about the pickiness of tea being steeped at exactly 70 C. I have a feeling that there 'd be little discernible difference ( to the average consumer ) were the water at 80 C or even 90 C. . . It 'd be an interesting thing to test , I suppose . As this relates to oxygen loss due to boiling , which has been mentioned in some of the answers . <URL> actually discusses that already and the general consensus is that lower oxygen levels in the water is actually bad for the taste of the tea : Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? And : <URL> that increased oxygen in the water resulted in milder , less tannic tea . So , it sounds as if not bringing your water to a full boil is actually preferable to the flavor of the tea ( assuming you do n't like the tannic flavors ) because the oxygen is beneficial to the brewing process .
If you are speaking of a salmon filet , you must remove the pin bones one by one . The easiest way to do it is with tweezers or needle nosed pliers . This <URL> demonstrates the technique : Run the back of your knife across the line where the bones are , from tail to head , to make them pop out more . Pull each bone , on an angle towards the head of the fish
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
If you want more gravy you need to add more liquids and natural flavours . Better if you have bone but ... no bone : Before you roast your beef sear it , so it has good colour when it comes out , deglaze the pan/baking tray with water/red wine/white wine or Madeira one of me faves and put that to one side . ( in the gravy stock pot ) Add onions , carrots and parsnips in with the beef , and touch of water , olive oil and salt . Do n't go mad with the water you 're not poaching the beef !! Just enough to stop the veg burning - 5mm in the bottom ( top up if needed ) . When the beef is ready ( 55C internal temp = medium rare <URL> ) take it out of the tray , put the root veg to one side and and add the remains to your gravy stock pot . Sear the bottom of the roast with a little oil ( it 'll be a bit soggy from sitting in the veg ) then put it aside to rest ( 5-10 mins if you 're in a hurry 15-30 for 3kg will come out lush ! ) deglaze again adding the resulting jus to your stock pot , which now had a wealth of flavour . Use that stock pot to create a beast of a gravy ! Make it in the usual manner , if you keep the onions in they 'll make it thicker and tastier - a stick blender with give you a smoother texture if that 's what you like !
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
In the <URL> , Madhur says one of the few uses she 's found for a plain microwave oven is to roast cashews . She dresses them in a little bit of oil , then spreads them out on a plate in a single layer and cooks them in the microwave oven until they turn brown . I assume dressing them in a little bit of oil helps browning . I found <URL> for cashews and other nuts , but which implies the oil contained in the nuts themselves is enough to get them to brown . And finally , about.com has a page which is specifically about <URL> .
First of all , cooking times are always only guidelines . The rule is always , " Cook it until it 's done " . The <URL> suggests a finished internal temperature of 165 F ( 74 C ) . USDA recommends cooking whole duck or goose to a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F as measured using a food thermometer . Check the internal temperature in the innermost part of the thigh and wing and the thickest part of the breast . When cooking pieces , the breast , drumsticks , thighs , and wings should be cooked until they reach a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F. So , the answer to your question is that you cook it until enough time has past that the goose is 165 F. . . With the caveat that your target temperature may be lower than the USDA recommendations because we all love eating rare meat . From an <URL> of The Splendid Table , Hank Shaw mentions his recommended target temperatures for different parts of a goose : HS : The first thing you need to know is the sweet spot of cooking a goose breast is somewhere around 135 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit internal temperature . LRK : It 's pink ? HS : It 's pink , yes -- medium-rare to medium . The sweet spot for the legs is somewhere around 175 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit , give or take , they 're pretty forgiving . That 's a huge spread in temperature . He achieves this temperature difference by removing the breasts half-way through cooking and returning the rest of the bird to the oven until the higher temperature is reached . Note , the temperature of the breasts is below the recommended temperature , so there is likely some amount of risk with eating it this cool . The entire method is explained in the link and it 's pretty fascinating . While he gives estimates of time ( 45 minutes for breasts plus 45 minutes more for the remainder ) which are quite a bit lower than your two recipes despite being for a lower oven temperature ( 325 F ) and a larger bird 12-16 lbs , it 's possibly due to the target temperature being so low for the breasts and , once they 're removed , the remainder of the bird would probably cook more quickly . To address the methods you 're looking at , I 'm going to convert the recipes to be in the same units : Ramsay - 450 F for 10 minutes followed by 9/15 min/lb at 375 F Food Network - 450 F preheat then 20-25 min/lb at 350 . Now , let 's look at your two recipes ... Ramsay : Stuff the zested fruit and the herb sprigs inside the bird and set aside for at least 15 mins . Can be done up to a day ahead and kept refrigerated . Food Network : Rub inside cavity with lemon juice . Place apple , potato , orange and celery inside the body cavity . Truss the bird like a turkey . I 'm going to guess that the apple , potato , orange and celery combo may be more dense than seven lemons/limes . If it is , it 's probably going to retard the cooking time a bit . This may explain some of your difference in cooking times , so you should keep that in mind . I do n't know how you 're planning to prepare your bird but the filling may change the cooking time . Also , that big 450 F burst for 10 minutes is a big difference over simply raising the oven to that temp and immediately lowering it . When you open the oven , a lot of the air will leave , causing the air temp to drop a bit . If you immediately lower the temperature , it will drop to 350 F pretty quickly . With Ramsay 's method you 're actively cooking the bird for 10 minutes at 450 F . This means that the oven will bring itself back up to 450 F and stay there for a few minutes before you drop the temperature to 375 F and it will take longer for the oven temperature to drop ( assuming you have a well-insulated oven ) . The goose will start warming up more quickly with this method , which is reflected in the shorter cooking time . Plus , when you 're talking about 2 hours or more , a 25 F temperature difference does change the cooking time . So , in the end , I think the methods are quite different but I think that ( if you follow the actual method including the filling ) both will give acceptable results ... but that does n't matter because you should at least <URL> a <URL> that tells you what temperature to aim for rather than what time to cook for and refer to those recipes ' internal temperature recommendations and use your meat thermometer to know when you 've reached them .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
There are a couple tricks I 've learned from Cook 's Illustrated about making oven fries : Soak your cut potatoes in warm water to rinse off excess surface starch . Drain them and dry them very well ( I use a salad spinner and paper towels ) . Use a heavy duty sheet pan on the bottom rack of a hot oven to focus the heat on crisping the bottoms of the potatoes . Oil your sheet pan well , and sprinkle salt on it . This will act kind of like ball bearings under the potatoes to prevent them from sticking too hard . For the first 5-10 minutes , tightly wrap the sheet pan ( with the potatoes ) with aluminum foil . This will essentially steam the potatoes and help get a really nice creamy interior . After that , remove the foil and flip the potatoes halfway through . Make sure you use a thin metal spatula when you flip them . These techniques work well for potatoes in general , and really do turn out some fantastic spuds .
For hard , chemical-resistant surfaces such as marble , bleach or peroxide cleaners will help . On things like counters , pots and pans , a Magic Eraser will often take off the stain . Sometimes a harsher abrasive like Comet or Barkeep 's Friend will be needed . Softer or porous materials , including cloth and many plastics often CAN NOT BE UNSTAINED . In my kitchen we treat turmeric like a dangerous chemical -- isolate , contain , and plan ahead to limit exposure . It 's just that destructive . You might as well tie-dye or bleach white any clothing you get turmeric on ; it India it is used as a dye for saris because it will semi-permanently tint cloth . You can brush off the dry powder harmessly , but when it is moistened and allowed to sit for a moment , the color is pretty much permanent . Edit : UV + peroxide : I saw a patent for removing turmeric stains from upholstery using UV light and hydrogen peroxide . You might try soaking fabrics in peroxide or Oxyclean ( which uses peroxide ) and leaving then out in the sun . Ca n't hurt right ? Edit : strategies to manage turmeric without making a mess Plan ahead where you 'll use it , and which utensils and vessels will hold it , so you do n't mess up anything you do n't need to . Re-use already turmeric-stained items so you do n't wreck anything new Mortars and pestles , tupperware , wooden and soft plastic utensils are a lost cause . At least the stain is purely cosmetic ? ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS wear an apron . Keep spilt powder dry ( it wo n't stain ) and brush it off with a paper towel into the garbage . Brushing away promptly keeps you from inadvertently spilling liquid on it , or wiping it with a wet towel during cleanup . That is , unless you want a neon-green counter and towel ? Whenever you spill something containing turmeric , promptly wipe it off , to reduce staining . Hard ceramic and porcelain are immune to staining unless the surface is rough . Try to use these for storage . Glass will stain . Stainless steel is resistant but not immune . With these strategies , I find I can use turmeric regularly without problems .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
The green shoot in the middle of a clove of garlic is said to have a somewhat bitter flavor .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
Hot Air Popper The cheapest and simplest is to use a ( cheap ) electric hot air popper . The old favorite is the <URL> , but you can use anything as long as the vent holes ( where the hot air comes in ) are on the sides rather than the bottom . I 've roasted a lot of coffee this way . It works , but there are a few downsides . The biggest problems : The circuation is designed for popcorn , which expands a lot more than roasted coffee beans . I 've needed to stir the beans manually in order to get an even roast . They do n't have to be stirred constantly , but you ca n't just drop the beans in and walk away . The capacity is pretty low , especially when you take the circulation into account . I can only roast a half a cup at a time , which is pretty slow . The temperature does n't get quite high enough to really bring the flavors out . The roast is good , but it 's really mellow . [ source : <URL> ] I 've read about modifications you can make that will improve these : changing out resistors , modifying the airflow , and even hooking up an Arduino to control the heat a lot more closely , but it seems like more work than I 've wanted to invest in the process . <URL> My brother 's moved on to this approach , and I 'm soon to follow . The benefit of a heat gun is that the temperature is high enough to get a good roast , and the airflow is high enough that you can roast a few cups of coffee at a time . [ source : <URL> ] More Insanity <URL> , including Weber Kettle conversions . The sky 's the limit , but I 'd start small with the air popper or the heat gun first . I 'd do this outside Some methods have you roasting the coffee in your kitchen - in the oven , on the stove , etc. . I would n't want to do this myself , for two reasons . The beans have thin husks on them , which come off as the beans are roasted . They 're messy , and I would n't want them flying around my kitchen . Also , roasting coffee does n't smell as good as you 'd think it would . Sources of more info : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Substitution for baking soda ?
You need to <URL> . Be aware that your flavors will be affected . Make sure it 's double-acting baking powder and you must replace the acidic liquid in recipe with non-acidic liquid . You could also use some heartburn medicine that contained potassium bicarbonate :-)
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
It does n't matter in which modality ( banking , simmering ) you bring the meatballs up to temperature , only that you do . Normally , if you are cooking them in the oven first , it is for browning generate additional flavor . Otherwise , you could simply simmer them from the beginning , which is perfectly viable .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
To answer your main question , you can bake very just about any type of fish . Looking at that recipe though , down in the " tips " section , it suggests you use a flaky white fish . So in that category , you have lots of options , snapper , cod , tilapia , for starters . Their flavours are often a little more mild and will pair nicely with the tomatoes and other flavours in there . If you 're prone to overcooking it , take it out sooner . I find many fish recipes that give cooking times tend to get you to overcook it . It 'd done as soon as the fish " flakes " fully . Leave it any longer it will start to toughen quickly .
I have cooked rice that was used for weighting a pie crust with fine results . I should have cooked some that was n't baked to see what the difference was , but in any case it turned out fine . Of course it may matter what temp the rice was baked at and for how long , and this could also affect the duration needed to cook the rice itself . I have also boiled beans that were previously baked , and they turned out fine , too .
Any kind of flavoring , really , so long as the application will accept a syrup substance . They make killer milkshakes / malts . Add them to all kinds of desserts , beverages . I 've occasionally replaced extracts and granulated sugar in a recipe with a flavored syrup but you have to experiment with the right combinations as this tends to either overpower the dish with flavor or not make it as sweet .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
From what I can find , it contains ' dough relaxers ' so you can shape the dough without it springing back . It also claims you do n't need to let it rise , but it then tells you to bake your pizza for 30 minutes ! So it essentially rises in the oven . Compare this to ' proper ' dough which you let rise for a couple of hours , pull into shape and then bake in a screaming hot oven for 5 minutes tops . It strikes me that using pizza yeast is ' pizza for dummies ' ; claiming ' it stops it rising too much ' is nonsense because if the amount of yeast is correct in your recipe you control the rise anyway . So it depends on whether you like doing things easy or doing things right . You can bet your pepperoni slices they do n't use ' pizza yeast ' in Naples . Personally I cheat just a little and use dried fast-action yeast as it has a longer shelf-life and you do n't fuss around proving it , and my pizzas come out great .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
Honey is your real binding agent here , not maple syrup . You can substitute the sugar-free syrup but be aware of what 's in it - according to the ingredients , it 's mostly <URL> , which is both a <URL> and a laxative . Now , ordinarily , I would n't tell people to worry about the digestive effects of sorbitol , but that 's a seriously large quantity you 'd be adding , so if any of you have sensitive stomachs , beware of eating too much of that trail mix at once . The other property - humectancy - means that what you end up with is going to be moister than what you 'd get with pure maple syrup . That may or may not be a good thing depending on your tastes . Since your issue seems to be a lack of availability rather than a problem with sugar itself , I 'd personally substitute generic pancake syrup , sugar syrup or even corn syrup instead . Or , if you 're really keen on the sugar-free stuff , you can use less of it and add more honey because the sorbitol will help keep the whole product moist . If you really want to cut down on the sugar , you can also use agave nectar , which is a fairly close substitute for honey ( a bit thinner ) , and could also stand in for maple syrup if used in combination with another syrup and perhaps some maple extract or maple flavouring . It wo n't be the same flavour , but , texture-wise , it should be a pretty close match .
It is no different from other prototyping processes or exploratory research . You are not confirming a scientific hypothesis here , you are actively searching . So the most important thing is : fail fast . So , for the question of mini batches vs. large batches , you certainly need mini batches . And in cooking it is more important than in other fields , as humans have a very poor ability to remember or record sensory qualities . In tasting two muffins side by side , you will notice differences which would not be obvious from notes from previous batches . Another thing which people find hard to remember : beat the Not Invented Here syndrome ! There is a lot of information out there about which ingredient does what , which ratios are good for a given type of baked good , etc. . It is boring to research them if you could be baking instead - but in the end , experimenting alone in your kitchen without theoretical background will never give you results as good as those created by teams of specialists who have been doing this their whole life , and using other information sources beyond primary experimentation . So , as with any good research , formulate your question first , and be specific . Then search for answers to this question . Only after you have found the theory , experiment how it applies to your recipe . Randomly changing things and hoping that you will hit gold is what many people do , but it is the opposite of a best practice .
I ca n't see any possible way it did n't reach 138F inside after that length of time ! I think you just had way too much liquid .
1 . Chemical leaveners There are two " oldfashioned " chemical leaveners , both still used today in traditional German and Scandinavian gingerbread recipes : Potassium carbonate ( potash or pearl ash ) and Ammonium bicarbonate ( salt of heartshorn ) They do have their own quirks and pitfalls , but if nothing else is available ... If you can get baking soda , mix with cream of tartar to make baking powder . If your store does not stock it , you pharmacy most likely will carry " sodium hydrogen carbonate " ( which is another name for baking soda ) either as treatment for heartburn , it 's an antacid ( because it reacts with acid , neutralzing it and making these nice bubbles , as we know from baking ... ) or as topical treatment for allergic reactions of the skin ( poison ivy and others ) . 2 . Biological leaveners This boils down to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , aka . baker 's yeast or brewer 's yeast . Of course you get very different results and have to follow a different procedure . But here are some recipes where they are used somewhat interchangeably , e.g. some types of pancakes or waffles and , obviously , bread ( vs. sodabread ) . The charming thing about yeast is , that if your are really , really far from a store , you can still get your hands on yeast : Start a sourdough using the yeasts naturally occuring on fruits or the air around you . Probably not the kind of substitution you had in mind , though . 3 . No leaveners With good technique , you can incorporate a lot of air ( because that 's what all leaveners are supposed to do ) in your baking goods by whipping your eggs well . There are various approaches : You can whip the whole eggs . Whip the yolks ( with hot water or over a water bath to stabilize them ) to Zabaione-like consistency . Whip the whites and fold into your batter . You will want to bake these batters right away before the bubbles get a chance to burst . The air will expand during baking and the hardening egg/flour-mixture will trap them in the baked goods . Contrary to many recipes out there there is no real need to bake a pound cake or even sponge cake with baking powder if it 's done right . Other recipes without leavener ( or rather with the egg trapping steam generated by a rather high water content ) are the members of the popover family ( Yorkshire pudding in the UK , Pfitzauf in Swabia , some dutch pancakes ) and pâté a choux . Puff pastry relies on thin layers of butter separating the layers of floury dough and trapping steam between them .
You want to use baking soda . Baking powder is used as a leavening agent and does this by combining an acid and a base , so it would not make your chicken more alkaline . Baking soda , on the other hand is just sodium bicarbonate and will make your chicken more alkaline . However , baking soda , especially if used in excessive amounts , will give your chicken a bad taste . Baking soda tastes bitter , and cooking it for too long at high heat exacerbates that . From reading online , it seems that adding baking soda will indeed make your chicken look much browner ( the same way that pretzels are dipped in lye to produce their brown colour ) , but it would affect the texture/taste of your chicken . If you want to add more flavour , I would think that properly browning the chicken ( using high heat , having patience ) would be more effective than adding baking soda , which might give the appearance , but not the taste .
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
Sucanat or turbinado sugar ( Sugar in the Raw ) would be pretty indistinguishable from blond cane sugar . One of them might actually even be the same thing under a different name . <URL> <URL> Here 's a bit more about the subtle differences between sucanat and turbinado . <URL> Here ya go , from Amazon UK <URL> Also from Amazon UK <URL> And one more <URL>
end question
start question
Should hot water be added to the already hot cooked vegetables for making a curry or even room temperature/cool water would do ?
This is my personal experience . It takes sometime to reach the boiling temperature ( again ) when you add colder water . As a result , vegetables get cooked for a longer period than anticipated . This makes some vegetables becoming mushy and not tasting as good as otherwise . ( Example : Egg Plant ) Therefore , I make sure to add the right amount of water in the first place .
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
This question was answered to some extent in another <URL> . This answer , which is basically just a link to <URL> , dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta . For instance : Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added . Pasta wo n't get sticky with smaller amounts of water . It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking , and the solution is to stir it . This is necessary even with lots of water . You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta . Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta . It simply needs to be <URL> . Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta . I have tried this at home with great success . So in answer to your specific question : No , you do not need a lot of water , it simply has to cover the pasta . The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta , the amount of water , and your own taste . You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment .
I 'd say it is a " matter of taste , " literally , because what comes out will change depending on how you process the vegetables . For example , despite the common use of carrots in stock , I feel like many chefs do n't actually want a real " carroty " flavor in stock . Quartering or roughly chopping a carrot is enough to give them plenty of " carrot notes " in their optimum flavor . Thus , my theory is that chefs often follow their particular chopping pattern to produce the balance of flavor that they want . If you chop things more finely , you may actually alter that balance . Anyhow , if your goal is maximum flavor extraction , then you 'll need to chop your carrot into finer pieces . ( You may then find that you need less carrot in your mix of vegetables . ) Other vegetables like onions do n't necessarily need fine chopping , since they already exist in relatively thin layers to allow circulation . If you quarter an onion , the liquid will already be able to infiltrate -- if you want even greater circulation , just break up those quarters into layers as you throw the onion in . And things like herbs , etc. do n't generally need to be chopped at all : just throw in whole sprigs , and they 'll provide most of their flavor after simmering even for a brief time . I would note that simmering time is also an issue here . Most chefs do n't cook vegetable stock for longer than an hour or so , since there 's no benefit ( as there is with meat stocks , where it can take hours for collagen to break down , etc. ) . In fact , by simmering too long , you can actually break down some of the more subtle flavor components , lose them to evaporation , or bury them in the more generic " overcooked " vegetable flavors . Thus , some recommend adding finely-textured herbs only briefly toward the end . ( That 's also the reason why a small amount of fresh herbs are often added as a garnish to a finished dish ; the flavor is greater and more noticeable than if they were cooked in for a long time . ) I 'm therefore somewhat skeptical of the method that used a blender before cooking , since that would cause a very fast breakdown of the vegetables and potentially unbalance the flavors . ( Some people do puree the vegetables after simmering and add them back for a more hearty or thicker broth/soup . ) In general , I 'd plan on simmering vegetable stock until the various vegetables are " done " ( soft ) and then going a bit longer , tasting it periodically until the flavor is rich and full . Chopping finer will release more flavor faster , but there is a limit because things will rapidly get " overcooked . " At that point you 'll be releasing less of the " bright " and " fresh " vegetable flavors that you get early on ; these flavors may start to break down or get lost , and eventually you 'll have more of a generic " vegetable mush " flavor .
Flick water on the pan . If it just sits there , it 's not hot enough . If it combines into balls and skates around on the pan , it 's either too hot or just right for a wok or blackening something . If it sizzles and evaporates within a couple of seconds , it should be good for a normal sautee or sweat .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
As long as you are talking about a normal pot with or without a normal lid ( i.e. not a pressure cooker ) and you are reasonably close to sea level , you 're right , boiling water is at 100 ° C. However , if you start to climb in altitude , that is no longer the case , at 300m , water boils at 99 ° C , at 600m , 98 ° C and so on . Wikipedia has a page with information about <URL> that contains a reference table .
It definitely needs to cool to prevent burns - the filling is likely even above the boiling point of water , because it has so much sugar in it and has been in a hot oven . Eating it pleasantly warm is one thing , but it takes a long time to cool from over 100C/212F down to a nice warm/hot temperature somewhere around 50C/120F . ( It 's not like a cookie , which cools quickly enough so that you can ( carefully ) eat it fresh out of the oven . Pie has plenty of thermal mass . ) Besides that , most pies have a filling that will set as it cools . With a fruit pie , the sugary syrupy part will be pretty runny when it 's hot , but it 'll gel up a bit ( like a jam - plenty of fruit and sugar ) as it cools . And of course custard pies definitely need to cool to fully set !
Ana it really depends what sort of a dish you are making , and what texture and flavour you are after and the nature of garlic state : chopped , crushed , minced , pounded , etc. . If you want that pungent taste of garlic to be tasted , then you could add these crushed , chopped , sliced ones into your dish in the middle stage . If you do not want to taste too much of garlic , but just to go along , then minced ones are better and you may add a vee-bit at the earlier stage of the cooking . ( I had to edit this passage as I had written it swapping the stages ) Garlic can be used for both oil based and water based dishes . Even for salads without oil ! but with some flavours of lemon/lime and salt . We usually blend one raw garlic clove ( as per the quantity ) when making guacamole !!! So are you sauteing vegetables ? Or a gravy based dish ? Should the dish go alone or with another set of course based dishes ? =) ** Update as per OP 's edit : ---------- ** I must say it is quite rare to see chefs wanting to preserve the best pungent flavours of garlic/onions ... ;) <URL> another way : its flavor changes as chemicals break down and reform into novel aromatic compounds . It also becomes sweeter as large sugars and carbohydrates break down into simpler sugars like fructose and glucose , both of which taste quite sweet to us . The key to really great garlic flavor ? Use a combination of techniques as indicated in the above article . Personally I like to do couple of things . Marinating with crushed/chopped/sliced garlic would be in your favour . The longer main-ingredients wrapped with raw garlic before cooking , the better they absorb the flavour as well as aroma . This only works for fast/short cooking dishes . <URL> It all comes down to the chemistry of ingredients and heat - not to mention the experience you may get along !
At Marriott hotel , where I worked for a while , we used similar flakes . Our technique was to add a good splash of boiling water first , incorporate the chocolate flakes by mixing it into a smooth paste ( more or less ) , and only then add hot milk . I guess the idea is that it is much more of a challenge to incorporate a small amount of solid into a large amount of liquid , however if you turn that solid into a paste first , its almost like your mixing two liquids . You 'll find that the same technique is used for making a bachamel sauce . For convenience sake , try using a small amount of hot milk , instead of water . Also , having your liquid boiling might help , which is hard to achieve in a microwave . e.g. when making a classic chocolate sauce which contains butter and cream , the chocolate is only fully dissolved when the liquid is boiled .
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
If you cool a pan too quickly it could deform , especially if your using a cheap pan . A cast iron pan could crack . This is most likely to happen if you dip a hot pan in cold water . If you want to get a jump-start on cleaning , de-glaze the pan with a cup of water as you would when making gravy . Pour off this liquid and set the pan aside to cool completely .
You ca n't take the yogurt flavor out , what you can try to do is balance the undesirable flavors and smells out . This may or may not be effective but it 's worth a try . You can balance the sourness with sweet and/or bitter flavors . You 've added some demerara sugar which is a good idea , for bitterness you could add fenugreek if available . There are comparatively few bitter spices in most people 's kitchens , but you will likely have instant coffee and unsweetened cocoa powder , and you may have bitters if you make cocktails . I would shy away from these though as the flavors they would add are n't compatible but YMMV . If you do n't have fenugreek ( or you have added some bit it still is n't enough ) you could try to add more curry spices like cumin , coriander , and mustard and try to overpower the yogurt taste . How I would do this is to put a small amount of oil in a pan and heat , then cook the spices in it for a short time , say one minute . Then add a couple of ladles of your cooking liquid , and simmer it for a 3-4 minutes before adding it to the dish . This will get the flavors out of the powder and help get them into the dish , if you just add powdered spices to liquid you can sometimes get a powdery taste from them , especially when using a slow cooker . This may end up making your curry way too strong , even if the flavors are in balances , if that happens remove some of the liquid and replace it with weak stock or water .
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
Cook the chicken ahead of time . I doubt your pizza cooking time and your chicken cooking time will be a perfect match , and it is more likely than anything that your chicken would be undercooked . That would not be good for anyone . If you are worried about the chicken being dry on your pizza , you can try par-cooking the pieces instead of fully cooking them ( though that may be a little dangerous , too ) , or you can add the cooked pieces to the pizza after it has begun baking .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
end question
start question
Can I thaw whole Ginger root to use later ?
No , you can never restore a fruit or vegetable to its original texture after thawing . Physically , this is caused by the water in its cells expanding and bursting the cell walls . When it thaws , the water flows out of the damaged cell walls . It is not actually pure water , but cytoplasm , so it can feel differently from plant to plant , in this case slimy . It is not always slimy , but any thawed plant becomes soft and mushy , and there is no way around it . While it may superficially look like rotten , there is no safety problem with it . You can use and eat it without any problems . The advice you found for using frozen ginger shows that , at least for the recipes it is intended to , the change in texture does n't matter . If it matters for your recipe , then no , you can not preserve it by freezing , because there is no way to restore it to its fresh state .
I find it amusing that your range warns you the cooking ring will work as intended . It 's supposed to be heat trap , and focus heat on the bottom of the wok . That said , they are also correct that it may discolor the burner grate . I ca n't really say what your grates are made from , and many cooking materials discolor at high temperatures . I think the main idea behind this paragraph in your manual is to save them from warranty replacements for discolored grates . I also find it highly suspect that a wok could damage the burner itself . They are usually ceramic , in direct contact with open flame , and any pan traps heat to some degree . Burners get HOT and have to be able to take it . Although the little decorative cap on the burner might discolor as well .
Shiitake mushrooms are certainly not poisonous , either raw , cooked or as you posit in your question , after being cooked , stored in the refrigerator and consumed later . If you enjoy eating them cold , go for it . Just keep in mind that like any other cooked food , they can spoil if not stored properly ( I have some leftover Chinese mustard greens stir-fried with shiitakes in my fridge right now , and have been eating them for days ) . However : There is a rare allergic reaction in some people called <URL> which is brought on by eating uncooked or under-cooked Shiitakes . Note that this does not mean it is poisonous , it is a food allergy for all purposes like any other ( think shellfish , wheat , soy etc. ) In addition to that , If you look , you will probably find advice to cook all mushrooms before eating ( this probably has more to do with digestibility than anything though ) . Although I believe this is really aimed more at wild harvested mushrooms , in his wild mushroom identification book " All that the rain promises and more " , David Arora can be quoted as saying : " With very few exceptions , mushrooms should not be eaten raw . They are safer , more digestible and more nutritious when cooked ... " Personally , I would not shy away from eating Shiitakes raw for any safety reason , but you then may be robbing yourself of some of the nutritional value .
There are four methods for thawing frozen foods which are recognized as safe : In a refrigerator In the microwave Under cool running water As part of the cooking process These four methods all meet the criteria that they minimize the amount of time the food spends in the danger zone ( 40-140 F , 4-60 C ) where bacteria can grow . The pros and cons of the following often-recommended methods are also reviewed : Leaving food on the counter overnight Thawing in a bowl ( or sink ) of water On a metal pan or with a " miracle thaw " device In the refrigerator Thawing food in the refrigerator is slow ; it can take a day to thaw several pounds ( a kilogram or two ) , and even more time for larger foods like a whole frozen turkey . The advantage is that the refrigerator is at a safe temperature , and bacterial growth is already inhibited , so there is little risk . This is probably the preferred method for many foods , if you have the time . In the microwave Thawing in the microwave is fast , but it has several disadvantages : It requires a lot of attention , turning or rotating the food to get even coverage from the microwaves ; for items like ground beef , you might even need to scrape off the thawed portions and continue defrosting the frozen portion . It is easy to accidently go to far and start cooking the food , especially if it has an odd shape or small pointier parts sticking out ( like wings on a chicken ) . For this reason , microwave thawing is best done only for foods like soup or stew , where you can stir them and if one part boils a small amount while another part is frozen , no harm is done . Under cool running water This one is most surprising , but it is true : the fastest way to thaw food safely is under cool running water ( at or below 70 F / 21 C ) , like the cold water from your tap . The reason is that that water has an extremely high capacity for carrying heat , and the forced convection from running water ensures that it transfers heat from the food item as rapidly as possible . In the Good Eats episode <URL> , Alton Brown thawed several frozen ice duck sculptures by various methods . The one under cool running water was almost completely melted , even when the one in the oven at 200 F was still fairly recognizably bird shaped . It is important that the water be running , to ensure strong convection . You can do this by setting the food in the sink under a very small stream of water . If the food should not get wet , you can put it in a zip-type bag or similar to keep it dry . Try to remove as much air as possible , to get the best contact between the water and the food ( through the bag ) . This is the best method for forced , rapid thawing ( at least when microwaving is not appropriate or inconvenient ) , but it is probably less convenient that the refrigerator method . You also have to monitor the food , and remove it when it is thawed , or it will come to the ambient temperature of the water , which is probably in the danger zone . As part of the cooking process Some foods can be cooked starting from the frozen state , thawing and then cooking in one operation . Among the ones most suitable for this are are smaller or thinner items , such as : Cookie dough lumps Hamburgers Chicken parts Pizza Stew meat Frozen , chopped vegetables Frozen stock ( at least in smaller quantities ) Bad idea : on the Counter overnight This is a bad idea , especially for meats and other highly perishable items . You have no control over the temperature the surface of the food will reach , and it may begin to spoil at the surface before the center is thawed . Bad idea : In a bowl ( or sink ) of cold water Again , a bad idea . Without the convection , the thawing speed is reduced . There is also no source of newer , cooler water , so the temperature of the water itself will rise . Some parts of the food may reach dangerous temperatures before it is fully thawed . Also , if you do n't check the food frequently , the temperature can get into dangerous territories , facilitating spoilage . Risky : On a cast iron , stainless steel or other metal pan , or a " miracle thaw " device This method is most often used with thin foods like steaks or frozen hamburgers . Physics are with you , as the specific heat capacity and conductivity of the metal are very high ( higher even than water ) . The large surface area of the metal acts like a radiator or heat sink in reverse , conducting heat away from the food more rapidly than air alone would . This method is not approved by health codes for commercial use , and carries some risks . You need to monitor the food closely , and cook it or move it into the refrigerator as soon as it is thawed . Failure to do so will allow the food to spoil , and the conductivity of your metal will become your enemy , more quickly bringing the food to ambient temperature . While this method is not officially sanctioned , you may choose to assess its risks for yourself . See also : <URL> <URL>
Use a boiled cornstarch wash for an in oven glue Egg wash is a great glue , but generally lets go again when heated in the oven . Best used after baking not before
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
It is just the root of the coriander plant . Certainly at least here ( UK ) you can buy living coriander plants in the supermarket ; you could pull one out of the pot and use the root from that . Apparently you can also subsitute 2 stems of coriander for every piece of root called for in the recipe , but I 've never tried this .
Practically all dairy starts with full fat milk , this is all that comes out of a cow . The process of cheesemaking centers around separating the curds from the whey ( except for making true ricotta , which is made from whey ) . The fat stays with the curds . So the fat content of your cheese goes sharply up compared to the liquid you started with , because you are throwing out most of the water , as well as some proteins and carbohydrates , but keeping all the fat . There are cheeses which start with cream . In theory , they can also be said to be started from milk , because cream itself is made from milk . In practice , if you want to make them at home , you will start with store-bought cream . As far as I 'm aware , it is not possible to make mascarpone or cream cheese when starting from milk . If there is a way , it would require a recipe different from the one starting from cream . So , if you have a recipe which asks for cream , you should follow it with cream and not with milk . Else , even if you manage to get the correct fat percentage , the ratio of proteins to fat or water to fat wo n't be right . But if you just have the milk and want to make any fresh cheese , you can make one of the many fresh cheeses which are not started with cream . Tvorog , paneer and quark are all milk based fresh cheeses , and delicious in their own right .
The green in the center can have a bitter taste , and many chefs prefer to remove them . If the taste and color do n't bother you , it will not cause problems for the dish . The brown end tends to a have a harder consistency than the rest of the clove , so may cause a problem depending on how you cook the garlic . If you 're cooking it in a manner that leads to a very soft and mushy piece of garlic , you 'd be better off discarding it . ( Boiling in soup , for example . ) It probably would not make much of a difference if you were browning the garlic for a topping .
Water freezes at 0 ° C ( or 32 ° F ) , but ethanol freezes at -114 ° C , so you can guess your vermouth with freeze somewhere in between those two temperatures . Noilly Prat is 18 % ABV , or 15 % alcohol by weight , which means it would freeze at around -6 ° C to -7 ° C , or 19-21 ° F. Your freezer may or may not be tuned to be that cold , but if not , you should be able to crank it a bit and get your Noilly Prat just frozen . That said , I would not really recommend leaving an ice cube tray full of vermouth hanging out in your freezer . You may notice that old ice tastes funny . Even though you may not notice your freezer smelling , that 's partly because the cold blocks smells . Just because you do n't notice them does n't mean the odors are n't there to ruin your Noilly Prat . I would recommend leaving them for a day until just frozen ( covered if you like ) , and then moving them to a Ziploc for long term storage . All that said , freezing will not halt oxidation altogether , but it will help , as only the exposed surfaces areas should be able to be oxidized . Since ice cubes by design have a relatively high surface area , you may consider minimizing the exposure to oxygen by other means . If you have a vacuum sealer , using that would be a fairly simple means to limit that exposure , but a similar effect can be done with a simple Ziploc bag , as described <URL> ( note this link is focused on using this technique for cooking , but it is translatable to your scenario ) . Drop your ice cubes in a bag , and then slowly lower the bag into a container of cold water ( the colder the better , here , to minimize melting ) , leaving the seal exposed . I sometimes <URL> things onto the bag to weigh it down as well . Then begin closing the seal , and lower the bag further into the water as you continue sealing , so that only the unsealed portion is exposed . Finally complete the seal and you should have a reasonably low-oxygen environment to mitigate further degradation of your vermouth .
Yes , you can . In professional kitchens , virtually all ovens are convection , and they work just fine . You may need to reduce the heat about 25 degrees .
It is n't necessary to even thaw bones before tossing them in the water , so long as you 're cooking long enough . With that said , to roast first and then toss in the stock , the goal is to get some browning going ( I 'm assuming your recipe says to roast at a relatively high temp like 400 ) to add some flavor , much like browning the meat at the bottom of a pot for a stew . Tossing them in the oven at 400 degrees for about 30-45 minutes will brown them for you and you 're not too worried about getting the insides cooked ( the core reason to why people do n't try to roast frozen meat ) . Stocks in general is as far from an exact thing as any recipe can go . There was this interesting article talking about all the differences in schools ... <URL> So in conclusion ... it is n't necessary . If you 're a stickler for recipes or you 're trying to duplicate something as close as you can , thaw the bones .
I would cook the lasagne and then re-heat the next day . If you assemble the lasagna while the sauce ( s ) are warm then you will find that the pasta starts to curl up .
It is possible to use a rice cooker to prepare rice from boxes but it is not optimal . These box rices typically call for the mixture to be first browned in butter before adding water and flavoring because it is not all rice . There are bits of pasta in the mixture too . The rice cooker is able to cook it but the result probably will not be as good . It is very possible to flavor white rice with seasoning . I often like to flavor my rice if I plan on making fried rice or if I am lazy and do n't feel like making anything but rice . If you want to imitate a specific flavor , you need to first find out exactly what that flavour is and put that seasoning in the water that cook the rice . Often though there might be some flavors that ca n't be added until afterwards . Such as the cheese flavored rice you mentioned . Cheese and rice cookers do n't mix . You would make the rice then later add a cheese sauce that you made . Please note that one main difference that might occur is slight difference in moisture content . From the box rice I 've made on the stove in the past , I know it is a bit more " wet " than rice made from a rice cooker . In my answer <URL> , I explained how a rice cooker works . Essentially it will continue to cook until all the water has boiled away .
Quite the opposite , large ginger rhizomes are more potent both in flavour and aroma , because those compounds take time in the ground to develop and accumulate ... There 's a Chinese proverb : " It 's the older ginger that 's got the punch / heat " , referring to wisdom of the elders / the experienced ... The younger rhizomes have a milder flavour , and a smoother texture ( the older ones are more fibrous ) so are used for pickling in both Chinese and Japanese cuisines ...
Your best bet for this is xanthan gum , which is an excellent stabiliser . Whilst the distinction between ' natural ' and ' unnatural ' is fraught with difficulties , insofar as xanthan gum is a product of microbial fermentation then it is no more ' unnatural ' than alcohol or vinegar . Be careful not to use too much though ( unless , of course , you want your drink to have the texture of mucus ) , you really only want to use about 0.4 % of the volume of the liquid you 're trying to stabilise : so if you have 500ml of milk then you would use 2g of gum . Add it to your liquid and use a blender or an immersion stick to incorporate , a few pulses should do , any more than that and you 'll just incorporate air and you could just end up with an annoyingly stable foam !
Fresh ginger and dried ginger are very different , the flavour , texture and properties are not overly similar that they can not readily be substituted for each other . Having said that , in the instances where they can be substituted I have seen estimated from 8:1 up to 6:1 ( fresh : dried ) .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
It will definitely make a difference . Yolks contain various things like fats and emulsifiers that affect the flavor and texture of baked goods . If you want more details , then tell us what you 're baking .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
end question
start question
How could I keep one-ingredient " ice cream " soft ?
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
Well , if it was a boat , you 'd swab it every few days ( " swab the desk " ) so it stayed wet and swollen . You could also treat the bucket with a food-grade mineral oil . You can find it in most kitchenware stores for protecting cutting boards . The oil will evaporate much slower than water will , but it will still evaporate . You might try putting the whole thing in a large plastic bag or similar container , so whatever moisture evaporates stays in the air surrounding the bucket , slowing further moisture loss ... but moist , stagnant air is n't good for long periods of time , either , as you could end up with mold that would be even more annoying to deal with . Or , as the bucket 's only touching the ice &amp; salt mix , and not coming in direct contact with food , you could always use wood treatments available from any hardware store . update : I was reading up on walnut oil , and wikipedia linked to a woodworker <URL> for finishing wood that would come in contact w / food , but that you should re-coat each year . I assume the beeswax would give it longer durability as compared to straight mineral oil sold for cutting boards .
Here is my camping strategy . If I 'm going for more than a few days , here 's what I do . Start with a good air tight cooler . ( Big enough to hold everything perishable ) . Forget those " gel packs " . Definitely do n't get a bag of ice from the convenience store . They melt and mess stuff up . Get a 2 litre bottle , rinse it out , fill it with water and freeze it . ( Do this a couple days in advance , if possible ) . The less air in the better . This wo n't leak and will stay cold a good time as long as you do n't open it . Take any raw meat that you 're NOT planning on eating on the first day and freeze that too . Put the meat and all the frozen stuff at the bottom and to one side . My bottle of ice goes either directly on top of the meat or right beside it . This way , my meat has at least an extra day or two of grace and I do n't need to waste extra space with an ice pack . Then layer stuff that is n't frozen , but can handle a little freezing on the next layer . Then work your way up , to any produce being on the top layer . Plan for the coldest stuff to be at the bottom and/or near the ice packs . Depending on what 's in there , sometimes I put a towel between the frozen stuff and the non frozen stuff to insulate it a bit better . And prevent produce that should n't be frozen from freezing . Then on each day , I move the frozen meat for the next day meat away from the ice packs and upward to allow it to defrost ( making sure , it 's sealed , so I do n't get any raw meat juice leaking out ) . On the last day , the water in the bottle can be drank , but once you start emptying it , it 'll start melting . Obviously , minimize the time you keep it open if possible . I realize you said you 're going camping tomorrow , so freezing a 2 litre bottle might not happen in time . In this case , I 'd switch to multiple smaller bottles and failing that those gel packs . I hate bags of ice , as they melt and make a mess . Finding cheese in a pool of water is never fun . The rest of the stuff would still apply . This usually lasts me quite a few days .
When I use fresh onions , we store the unused parts for up to a week in our fridge in either a ziploc or a sealable rubbermaid-style container . For particularly pungent onions they go in the crisper drawer to keep the smell from being too strong in the rest of the fridge , but usually they 're just on one of the shelves . <URL> 2-3 days but my personal experience says otherwise . Generally in our house , they do n't last long enough for the flavor to degrade too much , but they will get a little dried and the smell will get stronger over time . After a week , they should n't be bad in the sense that you 'll get sick - but you 'll want to use them in a meal where the onion is the star , as the aroma will take over the dish . Another option that I 'm a big fan of is to dice or strip the leftovers ( or , a 5 lb bag at once ! ) and freeze them on a cookie sheet ( instead of in a bag , where they 'll turn into a giant clump ) . Once fully frozen , dump them into a plastic freezer bag , and store in the freezer for easy access to a handful at a time . For most applications , you can defrost them right in the pan/pot/casserole as you cook , so they 're very handy and accessible . We do the same with peppers in our house for convenience .
Soft bread is soft because CO2 produced by yeast and water that gets turned to steam by the baking process gets trapped into pockets by a mesh of gluten , causing the dough to expand . The dough then solidifies , keeping its shape . If your bread is not soft then it has n't expanded enough for one or more reasons : Dough too dry : as much as the yeast , water is responsible for getting a good rise in your bread . Gluten requires moisture to relax and stretch , forming the structure that traps the air that causes a rise , dough that is too dry wo n't form good gluten . Also , dough that is too dry wo n't have the elasticity to rise . Yeast needs water to do its work , dough that is too dry will inhibit the yeast . Also , the expansion of water into steam is as important for a good rise as yeast . If there 's one mistake many bakers make ( including myself for years ) it is making dough too dry . Yeast inactive or inhibited : if your yeast is old , came into contact with salt , or does n't have enough water to work then your yeast wo n't work well for you . Yeast does several things for you : it converts sugar into CO2 causing a rise , it improves the structure of your dough , and it adds flavor . Put the salt on the opposite side of the bowl from the yeast to avoid inhibiting it . Also , adding the yeast to sugary water does n't work well , especially with more modern yeasts . Just get quick acting yeast and add it to the flour bowl , then add water to that . The dough is not worked ( kneaded ) enough : Kneading improves the structure of your dough by stretching gluten molecules and getting them to link together , making your dough stretchy and pliable , and forming a structure that will trap air for a rise . Under-worked dough wo n't have enough structure the dough has been worked too much : as a home baker using hands this is unlikely , but still possible . Once you have the structure of the dough you need , stop and let it rise as any further working will form too much of a structure , making it too strong to expand Dough under-risen : the times in baking recipes are just guidelines , you need to go for a result rather than a time . I 've had books say 45 minutes but it takes 3 hours , especially if my yeast was old Dough over-risen : if your dough rises too long the yeast will exhaust the sugars in the dough and die out , leading to the loss of all the air . This will make the dough dense . For a nice soft sandwich bread I start with a really sticky dough . I then use it 's stickiness to stretch the dough , smearing it all over the countertop and using a pastry scraper to bring it back together . This is a really quick way to build some gluten . Then I knead in flour bit by bit , kneading for at least 1 minute between adding flour until I have a soft dough that still sticks a bit to the counter . That stickiness means that there 's enough moisture in the dough . I 'll add a bit more flour to that and then stop adding flour to avoid drying the dough . If I want to knead it more I 'll knead with a bit of vegetable oil instead to keep it from sticking . It 's consistency you 're looking for , not time . Time is relative depending on your strength and kneading technique , 5 minutes for a skilled and strong baker may translate to 15 minutes for normal humans , so knead until you have the consistency you want . When you start kneading the dough it will pull into pieces easily , and have a rough texture . As you knead that roughness disappears and it will stretch longer without breaking . For a sandwich loaf I 'll knead until I can stretch the dough from the middle of my torso to my knee without it breaking . Next , rising your dough may take much longer than recipes say as it all depends on the ambient temperature of the room , humidity , the activity of the yeast , and other factors . Again , make this results driven , not time driven . A good sandwich bread dough should rise a lot , not the " doubled " many recipes say . For me tripled is more like it . Make sure you put it in a big enough bowl ! This advice goes for the initial as well as the secondary rise in the pans . Let it rise enough in the pans until it looks like the recipe picture , that 's about right . Ideally your oven will have been pre-heating for 30 minutes by now . Now , slash your loaves the long way with a razor blade like a carpet knife , about 1/2 an inch down . Do it quick and avoid punching down the dough . Slashing will split the top skin and allow the dough to rise efficiently after you put it into the oven . Once you put it in the oven it 's going to rise a lot as the yeast goes crazy before the heat kills it , and the moisture in the dough is going to vaporize into steam . If you do n't slash you wo n't get as good a rise .
I 'd like such a dish with courgettes , or mushrooms . Chickpeas sound like a good idea , butternut squash might be good as well . Sweet potato , perhaps .
I 've accidentally run my scoop , a Zeroll with conductive fluid inside the handle , through the dishwasher . I do n't know this for a fact because I did n't cut mine open to check , but I believe what happened to mine ( and what 's happened to yours ) is that the fluid is meant to work at normal body temperature and when it gets too hot , like in a dishwasher , it solidifies . That 's the clunking sound , the now-solid conductive liquid . So while it still works as a scoop , the conductive fluid is no longer doing its job and scooping will be a little harder . I definitely noticed that after mine went through the dishwasher .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
You want to make a " mint infusion " . Googling this will give you many recipes . Basically you brew the mint like herbal tea : Remove stems , Bruise the leaves a little , Add the leaves to a cup of very hot water , Let steep for a few minutes , strain and throw away the mushy leaves and use the liquid for your flavoring . The liquid will be brown as you are destroying the chlorophyll that makes the leaves green . In most applications I add food coloring to fix this . As you are making chocolate mint ice cream this should not be a problem . Save some of your mint leaves to use as a garnish . I love chocolate mint and I am very excited for you having a bumper crop of it .
The best recommendation I have seen is plain plastic wrap . If you have an oil mister , mist the wrap before using it . If you do n't , pour oil into a bowl , enough to form a puddle , and toss your ball of dough in the oil . Then transfer your dough to the rising container ( if you use the same bowl you used for oiling , take the dough out , pour out the superfluous oil , return the dough into the bowl ) . In the best case , the bowl will be deep enough for the dough to rise without the middle touching the wrap , but if it rises more ( even with the dough pressing against the wrap ) , dough with enough gluten development will peel off the oiled wrap with minimal losses , even if it is wet . The wrap will keep your dough surface moist in both the fridge and outside . It does n't allow breathing , but this should n't be a concern in most cases . If you overyeast the dough , the collection of fermentation byproducts in the bowl will probably make for worse taste than if they are allowed to dissipate , but the correct solution for this problem is to not produce them in the first place . With your " very long times " , this is probably not a problem in your case . You can also use this method for the secondary fermentation . But in the final proofing stage , you have to make sure that your dough never rises enough to touch the wrap , or else the loaf will deform while you are removing the wrap . Also , if you are proofing in banettons , do n't oil them , use flour combinations to prevent sticking . If you are out of plastic wrap , substituting alu wrap is a bad idea , because yeast is very sensitive to metallic ions . Today 's non-reactive metal utensils are safe enough for use with yeast dough , but untreated aluminium can be problematic . Try baking paper instead ( you may have to tape it to the outer bowl walls ) .
Brew it strong and then add ice . Alternately , freeze some coffee in ice cube trays and use those frozen coffee cubes to chill the new batch without diluting it . Agitation ( shaking ) with cubes is a good substitute for crushed ice -- both ensure that the hot coffee meets the cold surface of the ice quickly . If you sweeten your iced coffee , using chilled simple syrup will help cool the brew and avoid problems getting the sugar to dissolve ( sugar does n't dissolve well in cold liquids ) .
Let it sit , pray carryover cooking does the job ( unlikely ) Wrap it in plastic wrap , tightly spin the top to close . Twist ' the tail ' into a knot or secure with string . Put it back in the water . Position it ' hole-up ' on a baking sheet , put in an oven ( time-consuming ) Crack the egg over a bowl , finish in a pan on low heat ( not ideal for runny yolks ) Microwave ( sad , but could work ) I vote for number 2 .
Unfortunately you 're fighting bread-physics ... Bread with a high crust : crumb ratio become stale faster than those with low crust : crumb ratios like large boules or miches . Their large surface area allows moisture to evaporate quickly and the starches dry up and harden . This is why thin breads like baguettes are traditionally " daily " breads , i.e. made/purchased to be consumed that day . Soft pretzels have an even higher crust : crumb ratio than baguettes . Breads with extremely high crust : crumb ratios like hard pretzels , crackers , and hardtack are usually cooked to the point of being dry to prolong their storage capacity . These bread actually " stale " in the opposite direction by becoming more moist . There are a couple of things you could try that might help a little . It might take a lot of experimenting to get something that helps , and you will likely still need to reheat the pretzels just prior to serving them to have the soft texture you 're looking for . Without re-baking or light toasting there really is n't a way to bring back the original crust texture . Use pre-ferments to increase the concentration of a-amylase in your pretzels . Using a prolonged autolyse and/or sourdough starter can increase the amount of a-amylase in your bread which has been <URL> to slow staling . Incorporate conditioning ingredients like fat , sugar , malt , or honey into your dough . All of these slow staling . Try baking the pretzels at a lower temperature . The article linked above also mentioned that higher temperature baking leads to faster staling . For storage , your best option is probably to allow them to cool completely ( 15-30 minutes ) then place them in a sealed container at room temperature . Placing them in a sealed container before they are cool fills the container with humidity , which then coalesces and makes the crust soggy .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
Assuming that you want to serve the casserole hot and the streusel crispy , keep the casserole and the streusel separate until almost serving time . This means you will have to bake the streusel on a cookie sheet until crisp and ready , then let them cool uncovered and transport them in a separate container . Your casserole base contains eggs , so it must be baked . You want to avoid a " skin " or " crust " , so cover with foil at least part of the time or even the whole 30 minutes . ( Depends a bit on how wet the mash is . ) Depending on the logistics at the destination , either keep your casserole warm in your carrier or pop it in the microwave for a bit to gently ( ! ) reheat it . The right time to put the streusel on top of the base is a short while before serving - long enough that the hot mash can warm them up and that they can get a tiny bit soft at the bottom ( more authentic ! ) while staying crisp on top . A few minutes should suffice , but a quarter of an hour would still be fine . But keep the casserole uncovered .
Since you say French-style ice cream works fine , but the gelato is freezing rock hard , I suspect the problem may simply be the serving temperature . Gelato needs to be served at a warmer temperature than ice cream . Unfortunately the temperatures I 've found are pretty variable ( some say 5F , some say 10-20F ) , but everyone consistently says gelato needs a higher temperature than ice cream . So just try taking it out of the freezer 15 minutes before you want to serve . If you do n't want to do that , then actual gelato recipes probably wo n't work well , and you 'll have to modify them . You can try some of the usual tricks for softening ice cream : <URL> . But keep in mind that they may cause you to stray a bit from the original gelato flavor or texture !
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
According to Cook 's Illustrated 's article <URL> ( possible paywall ) : Briefly soaking meat in a solution of baking soda and water raises the pH on the meat 's surface , making it more difficult for the proteins to bond excessively , which keeps the meat tender and moist when it 's cooked . This is almost certainly the effect of the baking powder : to help create a more tender product . This is probably especially necessary given the lack of bread products ( which provides starch that physically interferes with protein linking , and helps retain moisture in the , thus producing a more tender meatball ) . The tartaric acid is probably there because recipe authors are used to pairing it with baking soda which is necessary when it is used to create leavening in baked goods . In the meatballs , it will simply tend to help make them more acidic , although it will also neutralize some of the baking soda . I have surveyed several recipes on the web which include baking soda in meatball recipes ; they variously claim that it helps make the meatballs lighter or more tender .
I think isolating the fudge could be a good way to fix this . It might complicate your dish , but it might add both to the presentation as well as to the texture of the ice cream . Try getting hold of or make your own biscuit rolls ( I do n't know the name ) . Fill these up with hot fudge . The biscuit will act as isolation keep the texture of both the ice cream and the fudge . In this way the only time the two will get in contact with each other is when one breaks up the biscuit to eat it . If biscuits does n't cut it , chocolate tubes or similar could do the same trick .
end question
start question
Why do my burgers end up round ?
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
The problem could be the recipe . If you 're using a lot of lemon juice , then a lot of sugar to cover up all that acidity , you 're guaranteed to end up with something pretty soft . Have a look around at other lemon sorbet recipes , and see if you 're using relatively more . But if your recipe is sane , then it could be your process . Here 's how it could mess things up . Sorbet is basically sugar water with a bit of flavor . When it freezes all the way , unless it was churned as it froze , there 's going to be a tendency for it to separate into ice crystals and even stronger sugar water . Some of this may happen in your first freezing step . Then you 're pulverizing it in a food processor , probably giving it a chance to melt a bit . This is much worse than just leaving it out , since once it 's in tiny bits , there 's a lot more surface area exposed to air , and you 're continuously mixing it , bringing in warm air , and so on . Then finally , it refreezes . The part that managed to melt in the meantime is going to repeat the earlier process , except now there 's lots of space , so it 's even easier for ice crystals to form and force out the sugar . So I 'd definitely expect a tendency to end up with a runny sugar syrup component to your " sorbet " . ( If it 's at all grainy , this is probably what 's happening . ) If you 're determined to do this without any kind of ice cream maker , it 's going to be hard to avoid problems . You can certainly try to correct for it by using less sugar , though . You could also just make a granita - freeze it on a sheet , and scrape it off to serve .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
For burgers I buy 2-3 different cuts - usually some sirloin and the end of a tenderloin ( fattier and cheaper ) and whatever else looks good . Slice thinly and stick in the freezer for 20 mins or so before you start grinding . I then mix in some finely minced onion and garlic , salt , pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce ( all optional and to taste ) before grilling .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
It is simply that the microwave heats primarily the water molecules , causing the bread to steam . A normal oven heats all of the molecules of the bread , and by the time the water is heavily steaming you will have pulled it out of the oven .
Were your blueberries grainy ? I occasionally get a pint that have a grainy texture . I 've heard that this means they are n't quite fresh , but they usually taste just fine despite the texture . I 'm not sure if this particular graininess translates to a jam though . Jam can also get grainy from sugar that is n't fully dissolved . This can happen more easily with larger batches , since the fruit can start to boil before the sugar is fully dissolved . For your particular recipe , perhaps a more thorough stirring after adding the sugar would help . You should be able to turn the heat down once you add the sugar so that you can stir it thoroughly before going back to high heat to boil for that 1 minute .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
What are the primary causes of this ? The steam and other hot gasses that were puffing the cookies up either escapes or condenses . Without heat to create more steam , the cookies deflate . You get exactly the same effect with bread , quiches , and other baked goods . You can hear bread start to make a crackling sound almost as soon as it comes out of the oven , and the sound continues for some minutes until the bread has cooled a bit . Quiches are always quite puffy looking when they 're in the oven , but they start to shrink a bit as they cool . If you want your cookies to shrink less , you might try cooking them at a slightly higher temperature , or cooking them a bit longer , or perhaps not chilling them so much prior to baking . Bumping up the amount of egg white in the cookie may help , too . The idea is to get the structure of the cookie to set a bit more by the time you remove the cookies from the oven . That will , of course , cause the cookies to be less chewy and more crunchy .
Typically , dutch ovens and other heavy , especially cast iron pots would be buried to allow a slow dissipation of the heat . This will allow the contents to continue to cook at a very low and slow pace , usually to allow the release and melding of more flavor . In the case of chili for instance , this could allow more of a dried chili essence to reconstitute and become more uniform throughout the pot . The insulation of the ground will slow the cooling and allow this process to extend much longer than air would . Additionally , packing soil around the pot would tend to act as a barrier to hold in more of the aromatics than in air , combined with the slower cooling to again allow more absorption and a more even distribution for a more mellow taste to the dish . Especially pots such as dutch ovens , this process is often done without additional heat , or in ground warmed by a fire , or with added coals or hot rocks depending on how long you want this process to continue and if you want more actual cooking to occur . Fully duplicating this process inside would be difficult , but a somewhat close approximation would be to heat up an oven . Put in your covered pot , preferably tightly covered . Close the oven then turn it off or down to a very low setting , and keep it closed for a few hours and you should get much of the same effect . I would call this process marrying or melding the flavor rather than saving it .
The brown color of the stock comes from the cooking method , not the kind of bones , a chicken stock cooked in the " brown stock " method can be as dark as what we expect beef stock to be . Roasting the bones was a good start ; but you also need to brown the vegetables , either with the bones for the last half hour or in a pan on the stovetop . One of the most important parts of brown stock is to add tomato to the vegetable mix , either finely diced or more often tomato paste . Cooking the tomato to a dark brick red will round out the components needed to make a very dark stock . Whether you roast all the ingredients together in the oven or separate the vegetables to the stove ; deglazing everything as you did helps the flavor , color , and of course makes cleaning the pans easier :)
Pretty much no , they are totally non-alike . The beauty of brisket is that it is full of connective tissue and other odd stuff that translates to succulence when cooked low and slow . Round is pretty much the opposite , it has very little in the way of interest .
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
It 's simply not ripe yet Do n't buy avocado 's or any other fruit and vegetable in pre-packed bags , you can not tell what state they are in Buy from a local grocer whom you can trust , and therefore can get honest answers on the state of the produce Avocados are usually sold unripe for shipping reasons . Buy ahead of need , and let them ripen at room temperature ( 2 to 7 days ) . They will keep in the fridge if you need them latter than that To recover an peeled unripe avocado , you can cube it , and then cook it in the microwave in short bursts to soften it . It 's only good for salsa or sauce at that point though . One advantage of slightly cooking avocado is that the green colour becomes more intense , I suspect this explains the guacamole colour from many fast food vendors :-)
First , try proofing your yeast ( mix 110 ° F water , a little sugar , and a little yeast in a small container ; confirm that it foams ) . It may be that your yeast is ( well ) past its prime . That 's the most likely reason I can think of that your dough did n't rise . Second reason could be that while mixing , the dough got too hot -- heat will kill yeast . Yeast dies somewhere around 130 ° F , but really you want to keep it much cooler than that . If its getting too hot , consider starting with colder ingredients ( e.g. , ignore the instruction to warm the milk ) . Finally , I 'd suggest using recipes that are by weight ; flour is much easier to measure by weight . You may be using a different scooping technique than the recipe author . Also -- there is something weird about that recipe . It lists 3 1/2 cups flour in the ingredients , but then only has you add 2 1/2 cups in the steps . I suspect that is a mistake , and explains the batter-like consistency you got .
From this <URL> The key to slicing and portioning foie is to treat it like a rich mousse-cake : Make sure to heat up your knife under running water in between every slice . A cold knife will catch and stick in the foie , causing it to tear or crumble . A hot knife will melt the fat as it goes through , leaving you with clean , smooth surfaces to sear .
You are probably stirring the pudding too much . Cornstarch starts thickening at about 205 ° F/95 ° C . Once the pudding has got to that point and has thickened , stop stirring , otherwise you will interfere with the starch formation that causes the thickening . Using electric beaters probably means you are missing the point when the pudding has thickened and quickly beating the living daylights out of any starch formation that has occurred . It may also be the case that you are beating so much air into the pudding that it just does n't get hot enough to activate the cornstarch in the first place . I would use @ecnerwal 's suggestion of a double boiler , along with a balloon whisk , and some patience .
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
You might not be as consistent as you think . See <URL> . One thing that comes to mind is amount of flour , and how ( and how much ) you 're mixing -- but I do n't know that those would make it ' thin ' necessarily , but it would make them tough if you 're over mixing . It might be a temperature issue , if you 're using a solid shortening ( eg , butter ) rather than a liquid shortening . Also , although you said you 're cooking them for the same amount of time , inconsistent oven temperature might turn that into inconsistent baking -- you only want brownies to be set on the sides when you take them out of the oven -- they should fail a toothpick test if you want them fudgy . Cooking them until they 're ' done ' will result in them hardening up as they cool .
If the custard over baked , the liquid could have separated from the solid . The creme will look loose , or semi-liquid , when it is removed from the oven after gently baking bain marie ( created by the water poured around the ramekins , placed in a larger container ) . The custard sets during cooling , first on a rack and then in the frig . The sugar may have absorbed the liquid , and became more of a caramel as it was heated , rather than the burnt ( brulee ) crust .
end question
start question
How long will a vanilla bean stay potent ?
It depends highly on how fresh the vanilla is when you buy it . At least here in Germany , vanilla beans from the most common super market brands are mostly parched and IMHO already out of order when you pick them up in the store . For several years , I have ordered my vanilla in larger batches from an independent importer ( current price is about 30US $ for 60 beans ) and I 've at least kept them for a year and a half or perhaps two . The quality of course deteriorates with time , but they are not going bad as in " can not be used anymore " . One problem is however that if the beans are too fresh , they are a little bit tricky to store properly . As scientifics already wrote , it is usually recommended to keep vanilla in an air tight container to prevent them to dry out . If the beans are very fresh and still moist , this will cause water to condensate and I suppose it is not good for the beans to soak in water for a longer period of time .
Liquid vanilla extract has alcohol in it , so if you add this extract to hot cocoa , puddings , fudge , or anything you make with heat , the alcohol burns off and so does most of the flavor . If you wait for it to cool off the flavor stays strong . Same thing goes for artificial vanilla also because of the alcohol levels ( but the flavor is just not there to begin with with artificial flavor ) . If you use vanilla beans , open up the pod and scrape the inside of it and put it in the beginning with the hot mix . That is another story . It is very delicious , but you see teeny tiny little beans swimming in your lighter mixes like vanilla bean ice cream .
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
Yes , you can detect the difference . How much of a difference will depend on the quality of both the imitation and of the real thing . That said , it 's difficult if not impossible for me to pick out the differences in baked goods . So I keep both around , and use the ( much cheaper ) imitation stuff for baking , and the real stuff for sauces , icing , custards , milkshakes , etc. . Incidentally ... In a pinch , bourbon makes a half-decent substitute for vanilla .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
It 's definitely an unusually long-lasting melon , although sources list a few different timeframes . <URL> says if kept in a cool , dry , frost-free place , they keep very well for several months , and reportedly over a year . <URL> increases that : If kept dry after harvest , a fruit can last several years .
They should be fine until Monday . Do just as he said ... keep them in the fridge covered with damp newspaper . Cook them tomorrow or Monday . If you ca n't / do n't for some reason have time to cook them then just stick them in the freezer alive . They 'll freeze and you can then cook them another time in the future .
If you want to be certain , I suppose you should ask the canning company . I ca n't speak for all countries , but in the U.S. , I 'm pretty sure the usual nutritional information reflects the total contents ( with liquid ) , unless the nutritional information explicitly specifies " drained , " e.g. , " Serving Size : 1/2 cup beans ( drained ) . " The relevant regulation appears to be from the Code of Food Regulations , Title 21 , <URL> : ( 9 ) The declaration of nutrient and food component content shall be on the basis of food as packaged or purchased with the exception of raw fish covered under 101.42 ( see 101.44 ) , packaged single-ingredient products that consist of fish or game meat as provided for in paragraph ( j ) ( 11 ) of this section , and of foods that are packed or canned in water , brine , or oil but whose liquid packing medium is not customarily consumed ( e.g. , canned fish , maraschino cherries , pickled fruits , and pickled vegetables ) . Declaration of nutrient and food component content of raw fish shall follow the provisions in 101.45 . Declaration of the nutrient and food component content of foods that are packed in liquid which is not customarily consumed shall be based on the drained solids . But how do we know whether the bean liquid is " customarily consumed " ? For most foods , we can go to <URL> , which gives instructions for isolating the " edible portion " of foods for nutritional analysis . Alas , that does not help either , since there are no instructions specifically for canned beans . Some canned vegetables are apparently often analyzed drained , but canned beans with sauces ( e.g. , pork and beans , chili and beans ) are explicitly listed with instructions NOT to drain . There 's no listing for plain beans . Yet there 's a clue in the <URL> ( p. 97 ) : Data for canned legumes were often developed for the purpose of nutritional labeling ; therefore data are presented for the total can contents . During the canning process , and sometimes during cooking , the cotyledons of legumes rupture , releasing starch into the brine ; therefore , draining of the liquid medium is difficult . However , cooks do generally drain these products . Some packers may add sugar to certain canned legumes and this may also affect the nutrient content . Another clue is in the reference amount for suggested serving size of beans in the <URL> , which has the following qualifications : Beans , plain or in sauce : 130 g for beans in sauce or canned liquid and refried beans prepared ; 90 g for others prepared ; 35 g dry . My experience is that I almost always see 130g as the serving size on canned beans in the U.S. , suggesting that they are following the above nutritional guidelines from the FDA and USDA and would include any sauce or canned liquid in nutritional analysis . ( Also , in the past I 've compared this 130g approximate serving size to the number of servings listed on a typical can of beans , and the only way to get close to the estimated number of servings is by counting the liquid . Usually the beans alone will weigh significantly less than the number of servings . ) Lastly , I would note that in the case of plain beans , the canning liquid likely contains only a small amount of calories anyway . For beans listed as being " in sauce , " clearly the implication is that one could consume the " sauce " and therefore any calories in it would be included . All of that said , the fact that there 's no explicit mention of beans in the first two documents I linked leaves a little " wiggle-room , " and thus I do n't think a bean canning operation would be in violation of U.S. labeling regulations if they drained the beans before calculating nutritional content . ( Though I 'm not a lawyer , so this is speculation . ) But various other documents -- including the other two I cited -- seem to indicate that including bean canning liquid for nutritional purposes is the norm in the U.S.
This is not a precise term , you can not go and buy " moist " and " dry " vanilla beans . But the pods can be prepared to different degrees of dryness , similar to prunes . And the ones with more remaining moisture have more taste and are generally higher quality . This is why they specify it . If you only have access to dry pods , I will still try out the recipe with them , just change the source for the next buy . Regarding the comment above , I have never had vanilla beans with a grade denoted on the packaging . But I have had both moist and dry ones , so it is n't a case of only one grade being marketed to end users . It is surely better if you can distinguish them based on some kind of grading , but chances are , you wo n't know what grade you are buying .
First off , pretty much everything stored in a properly cold freezer ( 0 ° F / -18 ° C ) will be safe to eat forever . The flavor will eventually go , e.g. , by getting <URL> and also by enzymatic degradation ( if not blanched ) . How long this will take depends on exactly how you 've stored them . In general , airtight packaging with no air inside seems to be best . For example , vacuum-sealed thick bags work well . Cheap , thin plastic " storage " bags do n't work well . You can get around <URL> . Colorodo State believes you can get <URL> . edit : It also occurs to me that it matters what freezer you 're using . The one on my fridge , for example , has fairly large temperature swings ( yet mostly stays below 0 ° F ) and automatic defrost , it freezer burns things much quicker than my chest freezer ( which has a temperature variance of maybe 2 ° F , staying in the -3 ° to -1 ° F range )
Why Vanilla ??? Vanilla is a rich and powerful flavor , with over 200 flavor compounds besides the basic vanillin . Due to its complexity and neutral flavor , it can be combined with a plethora of other flavors without conflicting . It just provides a good neutral base to build on . The vanilla also enriches the products if they are combined with additional flavorings , adding body and depth to the final result . Ok , so Vanilla makes sense , but why add ANY flavoring ? On their own , sweet products may not have much flavor ( remember , ice cream is just milk , sugar , and cream ) . Vanilla gives them a little flavor as a starting point . It also masks any unpleasant flavors present as a result of ingredients . For example , truly unflavored yogurt has a fairly strong lactic acid flavor of its own ; this is something where you can get a TRULY unflavored yogurt and see what I mean . It 's a whole different animal , and brings to mind that it 's simply soured milk . Carbonated water similarly has a fairly unpleasant bite to it when no flavoring is added , as a result of the carbon dioxide reacting with water to produce carbonic acid . Why ca n't I find stuff without ANY flavoring ? You can , if you know where to look ! The truly unflavored products are generally used differently than their vanilla-flavored " unflavored " counterparts . Club soda / seltzer water is simply unflavored soda , and is stored with the stuff for mixed drinks , since that 's where it is normally used . Unflavored yogurt is used in cooking savory Mediterranean dishes , and may be to the side of the flavored yogurts . As the comment mentions , unflavored ice cream is available as sweet cream . I ca n't think of any other normally-vanilla flavored products , but if you can come up with some , I can probably find them for you under a different name .
A chinoise will not -- I speak from daily experience -- filter out vanilla seeds . A coffee filter would , but my question is : why on earth would you bother ? It 's annoying to do ( and depending on what the product is , filtering through a coffee filter would ensure you lose other things ) , and seeing actual vanilla seeds in the final product tells your guests that you are using real vanilla beans , not extract . Professional kitchens do not , generally speaking , attempt to remove the seeds for the reasons noted above . @stephenmacdonald , most dessert recipes that call for a fine mesh strainer do so because there is the possibility of chunky things ending up in the product . In the case of that recipe , I would guess it is to prevent chunks of undissolved gelatine from ending up in the final dessert .
Truffles are a low acid food , and they grow underground , so they are at risk to have botulism spores present . Vacuum packing creates a low oxygen environment , which is what the botulism bacteria requires to grow and produce its toxin . Unless the truffles have been salted ( to 5 % by weight ) , acidified ( to a pH of 4.6 or lower ) , or frozen ( at all times after being vacuum packed ) , they are at risk for the growth of botulism . Some strains can grow and produce their toxins at refrigerator temperatures ( and most refrigerators have a temperature cycle that peaks in the more general growth range ) . While the growth is slow , it can occur . The risk is increased if the truffles have not been continuously refrigerated since they were vacuum packed . For this reason , mushrooms and truffles should never be vacuum packed and stored . You should discard these truffles . In the future , obtain your truffles from a reputable source ( which does not vacuum pack ) and use them fresh , or freeze them as botulism is not active at freezer temperatures . See also : University of Colorado Extension fact sheet on <URL>
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
[ Edited ] I think 10 hours would be safe enough for most food : the first couple of hours the fridge will still be quite cold , and after that it takes more than a few ours for most food to spoil . When I leave milk out of the fridge for three hours at room temperature ( say , 20 ° C ) , nothing happens . I do this often . And the temperature inside the fridge will never reach room temperature in those 10 hours . When it is really hot in summer , it might spoil after 2 hours outside the fridge , but otherwise it takes much longer . Cheese , food in jars , sauces , leftover cooked food : none of these are more sensitive to spoiling than milk . Fresh herbs are probably equally sensitive . Eggs are much less sensitive . The most sensitive kinds of food I can think of are probably raw meat and raw fish without preservatives . Smoked or salted meat and fish do not count : they can be kept much longer . I think even raw meat and fish will pull through , but you might want to apply the following tips to be sure . Tip 1 : put as much material in your fridge as possible . That will " absorb the cold " that your fridge feeds it while power is still on . Then , once power goes out , the " cold reserve " in your fridge will be significantly increased , so that the average temperature of the interior will stay colder for a much longer time . The higher the <URL> , the better . See <URL> for the best material ; water probably wins . So stuffing bags of water in every nook and cranny would seem like a good idea . Or else bottles . Tip 2 : if you have a freezer , stuff it with bags and/or bottles of water , and put most of those in the fridge once power goes out ( swap with some of the bags/bottles that were in the fridge ) . The freezer will probably do better , because it has much better insulation than the fridge . And put the most sensitive foods in the freezer maybe a few hours after power goes out ( or maybe later -- lest they freeze after all ) . Actually , start putting as much water bags/bottles in the freezer as you can several hours before power goes out , and move them to the fridge once frozen . They will remain half-frozen for hours and hours in the fridge , so they will add extra coolness to the fridge . This way you 're " saving up " cold from the freezer and increasing your cold reserve even more . Tip 3 : most refrigerators have a temperature slide/wheel/thing , which determines what temperature the thermostat aims at . You could set the slide to maximum power ( so lowest temperature ) a few hours before the power outage . Most people , including me , have the slide somewhere in the middle normally . The slide usually does n't mark the exact temperature , but rather some symbols . It is usually found inside the refrigerator . Tip 4 : cook and/or eat any raw fish and meat before the outage . I think it would not be necessary at all if you follow the above tips , but cooking your meat now may just be simpler . Then either store the cooked meat or eat it . Incidentally , I would n't half-cook any meat : that may actually increase the rate of bacterial growth if it does n't kill the bacteria completely . But something like salmon can be ( fully ) cooked first , reheated later .
Well of all your listed ingredients the only two that can really ' spoil ' are the fresh basil and fresh mint . Honey never goes bad , and nearly any dried spice can last for a long time with just a degradation in flavor . I 'd say that if you washed and dried ( sanitarily ) your basil and mint before addition to this mix that you could get at least 1-2 weeks out of it unrefrigerated , and at least 1-2 months out of it refrigerated . Please note that this is just a ballpark estimate and you may have to do some trial and error to determine a more specific window . That said , I would n't be surprised if you could get a significantly longer shelf life out of it than my estimates . Update - I think the presence of salt does enough to " extend " the life of it . Another Update - Some Googling has informed that honey is in-fact a preservative . Apparently honey is a rather hostile environment for bacteria due to the production/presence of hydrogen peroxide . I still think my estimates are accurate , albeit a little conservative now . The best thing you can do is trial and error . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Personally the only way I 've ever achieved a good suspension of vanilla in my Brûlée 's is by cooking the custard over a bain-marie until thick and ... custard like . Once it 's nice and thick I 'll then pour it into my molds and then bake them for 10-15 min at around 110 ° c just to finish off . Be very careful not to over cook them the last thing you want , after all that stirring over the bain-marie , is curdled eggs . The extra thickness of your custard helps stop the vanilla seeds sinking to the bottom . However , you will still get a little sink-age . The trick for Pannacotta , is to stir them as they begin to set . Or to whip them after they have set and then stick them back in their molds and chill again . This also helps make your Pannacotta lighter and aerated .
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
end question
start question
What ingredient adds the sweetness on Croissants in Europe ?
In Rome I was informed that I was eating a croissant with honey on top ( after informing my host that I had a honey allergy ) . It had the sweetness that I suspect you 're experiencing . To help you determine if we were trying the same thing : the croissant I had was shiny and slightly sticky on top , and it seemed more like it was brushed on top rather than drizzled . That would support @Carmi 's answer that it was brushed on with the egg . It was definitely honey , though , not sugar syrup .
The most prominent flavors in authentic paella are pimenton ( smoked paprika ) , saffron , a sofrito of onion and tomato , garlic , and the broth .
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
In your example , it means 500g pumpkin before preparing . In general , you might see this two ways : 500g pumpkin . Dice the pumpkin . 500g diced pumpkin . The first option refers to the weight before prepping while the second refers to the weight after prepping . In general , the second one is far more exact for the actual recipe while the first one is more exact for shopping . I assume ease of shopping plus presumption of yield is why the first one is so often used , although in high end cook books ( Grant Achatz , Thomas Kellar , etc ) the weights are often given post prep for precision . You will see the same thing for volume measurements ( i.e. <URL> ) .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
There certainly are differences . Specifically regarding lemon there are differences not only in taste , because the lemon olive oil is flavored using the zest of a lemon , but also in acidity . Lemon juice is very acidic , olive oil is not . There are plenty of times where it is completely inappropriate to add an acid . A better comparison would instead be lemon infused olive oil compared to olive oil and lemon zest . There would still be a difference , but it would be less noticeable . The infused olive oil has had more opportunity to capture the fat soluble flavor compounds in the lemon zest , however the flavor compounds that are n't fat soluble will be forever lost . That is generally the trade-off when it comes to any infused oil . You will get lots of the fat soluble flavor compounds , but you will lose the non-fat soluble flavor compounds . As for difference of use in the olive oil and lemon juice case , yes , definitely . You ca n't always add acids to foods . In the lemon zest case , apart from the slight flavor difference , there 's also a texture difference . Of course , if you want something very smooth , pieces of zest would n't be a good thing . Apart from those though , not really . All of these differences still apply both in uncooked as well as cooked preparations .
They do n't correspond to a temperature , they correspond to a rate of heat input . The elements in your oven are connected to a thermostat with regulates their temperature , they are really constant heat/fixed temperature devices , like the heat in your home . The oven turns the elements on and off to regulate temperature , but the elements are only ever ON or OFF . The stovetop elements , by contrast , are variable heat/variable temperature . There is no thermostat , but the elements can be variably adjusted between MAX and OFF . For every setting the temperature will just keep getting hotter and hotter ( unless something is removing the heat , like cooking food ) - the higher settings will just get hotter faster . The important thing to know ( for an electric range ) is the wattage of the elements - most 8 " elements are ~ 2500W , and most 6 " elements are ~ 1500W . But there is a lot of variability . Additionally , if you are living in a home with 240V power but have recently lived in an apartment ( which likely had 208V power , but 240V elements installed in the oven , even if you did n't realize it ) , your heater elements will seem much hotter than before . It is also possible that the oven maker or previous owner installed higher wattage elements ( perhaps by installing elements intended for a 208V service in a home with 240V service , which would have the effect of " turbocharging " them a bit ) . Temperature measured with an IR thermometer may not be useful for you to determine if your oven is hotter than usual , since an empty pan on Low will still reach 400 + degrees ( it will just get there slower ) . What might be more useful is to find out what setting people do certain cooking tasks at , and see if that is different than what works on your oven . You can also remove the elements and find the voltage/wattage stamped on the bottom - let us know what those values are and we may be able to tell you if they are abnormally high . Personally , I sweat onions on 4/10 , fry an egg at 6/10 , simmer soup at 2/10 , and maintain 1 gallon water at a consistent , but not vigorous boil at 8/10 .
This is called the " roe " . More on wikipedia : <URL> Red roe is that of a female , and white , that of a male . It 's optional if you want to eat it , personally it do n't like the taste . More on ( ahem ) <URL>
The antioxidants in blueberries lie in the berries themselves , not in the pesticides residing on their skin . Washing them before freezing means that water freezes on the outside . The water crystals puncture the skins of the berries , changing the texture .
Short summary : views on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Part of the difficulty with this question is the very definition of the word offal and what it implies . First , a little mini-history , taken partly from the Oxford English Dictionary . Offal is literally derived from off + fall , i.e. , that which " falls off " or is discarded during some sort of process ; the word entered English around the year 1400 . This sense is rare in modern English , but it still occurs in some manufacturing processes , e.g. , woodchips that are discarded from milling . In the 1400s , it was applied in the same sense to butchers , who initially included only those things which were cut off/out of the carcass and truly considered inedible or useless from a culinary perspective ( e.g. , the contents of the intestines , which would contain the animal 's waste and would rarely be consumed because of the potential for disease , parasites , etc. ) . Gradually , this definition expanded over the years to include elements that butchers might discard or separate from the primary " meat " ( i.e. , mostly muscle ) . As the OED defines it : The edible parts collectively which are cut off in preparing the carcass of an animal for food . In early use applied mainly to the entrails ; later extended to include the head , tail , and internal organs such as the heart , liver , etc. . Given that many of these " discarded " or separated items were not considered as desirable for eating , the word gradually acquired a negative connotation , which the OED first finds in 1581 : The parts of a slaughtered or dead animal considered unfit for human consumption ; decomposing flesh , carrion . The OED adds that this last sense is " Sometimes used contemptuously , " as in the first 1581 quotation that references " dirtie tripes and offalls . " In answering this question , there seems to be a conflict between two possible interpretations about the word offal : on the one hand , there 's the " offal " that 's discarded because it 's truly inedible or difficult to use in a culinary sense , but then there 's the " offal " that 's merely separated out because some people or some cultures find it repulsive . That latter " offal " is still generally used by somebody , whether it 's eaten by people who do n't find it repulsive ( and might even consider it a delicacy ) eaten by poor people who ca n't afford more desirable food ( as referenced in the question when oxtail was given to " laborers " ) ground up , processed , and disguised in processed foods given to animals to eat For a recent perspective , I quote from the book Offal : A Global History ( 2013 ) by Nina Edwards : What might the term " offal " include ? The Chambers Dictionary 's definition sounds a little less than enthusiastic : " waste or rejected parts esp . entrails , heart , liver , kidney , tongue etc. : anything worthless or unfit for use . " Other edible innards not specified here include connective tissue , bone marrow , lungs , spleen , sweetbreads , testicles , udders , tripe , heads and the features thereof ( brains , eyes , cheeks , snout or muzzle and ears ) , skin , tails , trotters , lard and blood . Offal is sometimes thought of as inner organs and viscera alone , but I include all edible exterior parts . Including all edible ( yet undesirable by some ) parts seems reasonable in the definition , given that even as early as 1660 the OED has a quotation lumping in sheep trotters with " offal . " But in some places the word carries a distinct connotation of " organ meat " specifically . In any case , as said at the beginning , the perspectives on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Most cultures have entire classes of animals that are considered inedible or repulsive , whether pork in Jewish or Islamic traditions or almost all insects in various Western cultures . The concept of " offal " is just an extension of communal dietary guidelines or preferences to the avoidance of specific parts of animals . It 's also important to note that there are various reasons for rejecting various foods . Sometimes foods have unusual textures or flavors , but just as often they are rejected because of the associations of specific body parts ( e.g. , feet or snouts or tails being " dirty , " tongues because of their associations with animal feeding , genitals or reproductive organs for puritanical reasons , etc. ) . Or , in some cases the food perhaps resembles actual animal " parts " too much for our modern culture that is often divorced from butchering : in the era of the chicken " nugget " ( or " boneless skinless chicken breast " ) and ground beef , an actual tongue or tail or ear tends to remind the eater that the food is not from some anonymous cut of " meat " but rather from an actual animal . In some of these cases , the actual meat may not have a flavor or texture very different from the rest of the animal , but some people still reject it on the basis of its appearance or kn
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
I think you are confusing a lot of things here . First , you apply a to the food . Second , the cooking technique causes a lot of to happen within the food . Third , the cooked food causes in your head . I once explained the difference between cooking techniques and physical processes in <URL> , so wo n't repeat it . That being said , I do n't think a word for your situation exists , on any of the three levels . The word for the cooking technique you used is simply " slow roasting " . There were many different physical processes going on in the meat , including protein denaturation , collagen converting to gelatine , caramelization of sugars , maillard reaction between proteins and sugars , and so on . And then you ended up with a smell of slow roasted pork , which is a perception . None of these words describe your situation unambiguously . Had you used a different recipe for roasting the pork , it would still have been " slow roasting " , but it would have smelled differently . None of the physical processes is by itself responsible for the smell . It 's the combination of them , and with the unique parameters they happened to have , which produced exactly this smell . And the smell itself does n't have a name either . The olfactory sense of humans is incredibly complex . We can sense 5000 different substances , some of us can sense substances others ca n't , and they all produce a different sensation in different combinations and concentrations . We do n't have the words for every possible smell in the world , neither do we have the capacity to remember or distinguish them all . So , language has no better word for " the smell of slow roasted pork with apple juice glaze " than this descriptive phrase . Whoever has smelled it , might remember it . Whoever has n't , probably wo n't be able to imagine it even from the description . You are welcome to describe the smell any way you want , and you are correct to tell the people that your technique was " roasting " . The fact that they wo n't be able to perfectly picture the exact sensation of your food is just an everyday thing in human communication .
I 'll elaborate on Joe 's answer some . It 's a little known fact that button mushrooms ( also called common , white , or table mushrooms ) , cremini ( crimini , baby portobello , baby bella , brown mushroom ) , and portbello ( portabella ) are all the same species . Specifically , <URL> . The difference in appearance and taste is based solely on maturity . The youngest are white button mushrooms , and the oldest are the big portobello mushrooms . There can be slight differences in skin color for the portobello 's , though it tends to be darker than the stark white of the button . The mushrooms in that video are most certainly fully mature agaricus bisporus , a portobello . It 's a safe bet that anytime you see a mushroom being substituted for a " steak " , that it will be a portobello . They have a rich meaty flavor and texture that is perfectly suited for this .
Crema is a food foam . For crema to form and survive long enough for us to enjoy the espresso , something needs to hold the bubbles of the foam together . In most food foams proteins help hold up the bubbles , but in crema it is a mixture of <URL> . This makes it hard to predict what makes good crema . From practice , good crema comes from : Enough pressure and well timed extraction Fresh grind with a good grain size distribution Darker roasts There are also tradeoffs between stability of the crema and the amount of crema produced . The two do n't seem to go together . The crema also should have bubbles that pop and sprinkle the coffee aromatics into the air and our noses ( like champagne ) . The higher pressure extraction helps extract and emulsify the oils ( about 0.1 g ends up in one shot ) . The darker roasts help with the Maillard reaction which creates the still unknown molecules that give crema its color and volume .
Great question . the salt is not there for the taste of salt . A pinch of salt helps with the ionization process so your taste buds can pick up the tsate of the chocolate , ice cream , etc , better . I think this was discussed in an episode of Alton Brown 's Good Eats as well .
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
Garlic will spoil faster in the fridge actually . I do n't know how long it will last in the fridge , but I understand that it lasts longer if you leave it in a cool , dark , dry storage . I believe one reason is that your fridge is generally too humid . In my experience , garlic kept in the fridge is also more likely to develop mould ( goes soft , and dark discolouration ) . I keep mine in a ceramic thing in one of my cupboards . It lasts anywhere from a few weeks to a few months depending on the garlic ( probably how long it sat before getting to my kitchen ) . If you store it like that , garlic that goes " bad " will usually start to sprout ( green shoots , will come through the top .
" Bold " <URL> a flavor term in general , usually referring to a type of bean ; however , on coffee makers , it appears that the water <URL> , which allows more flavor to be extracted from the beans . <URL> confirms that this appears to be the case on at least one Cuisinart model .
end question
start question
Why is my sushi rice too sticky ?
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
No . It is not general practice to add bleach to rice . The brown rice bran is removed through mechanical processes . As to whether he should continue to indulge this worry ... I 'd be more concerned about [ insert common American male problem here ] before ammonia in rice . <URL> This review has many free references in it . Should you want further peer-review reading , I can provide it .
Optimal texture is about optimal heat transfer . When a vegetable releases so much water that it simmers in its own juices instead of pan-roasting , you should increase the heat transfer . To achieve that , you need to 1 ) use high heat , 2 ) not overcrowd the pan , and 3 ) use a pan which is capable of better heating . Cast iron is perfect for these situations , heavy steel pans too . Aluminium is much harder to work with , especially if it 's thin . Also do n't use a nonstick pan , you 'll destroy the coating at the temperatures needed . This technique can be used on its own , or combined with something else , for example oven drying . But note that a zucchini is over 90 % water , so you wo n't be able to simply get it dry enough to resemble a dough noodle .
" Sushi grade " means that it is safe to prepare and eat raw . In order to do that , it must be frozen to kill any parasites . That means it either has to be : Frozen at -20 ° C ( -4 ° F ) for 7 days ; or Frozen at -35 ° C ( -31 ° F - " flash frozen " ) for 15 hours . There are n't any official regulations about the fish itself or its quality , and most sushi/sashimi distributors have much more stringent rules of their own beyond the freezing guarantee .
Grain is a measurement of the acidity of the vinegar . It is the acidity percentage multiplied by 10 , so 45 grain vinegar would be 4.5 % acidity .
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
It sounds like fermentation to me . That 's what you 'd expect when you 're making mead or hard apple cider . I 'd personally dispose of it ... partially because I ca n't think of a good use for alcoholic lemon juice , but also because you do n't know exactly what the bug is doing the fermentation .
This is not a defect but a characteristic of pea-soup . In Holland , the pea-soup is considered good when a wooden spoon can be put upright in the pot . I 've never eating it that thick myself , though . The starches and the gelatin will form a mesh when cooling , so the consistency of the pea-soup will always be thick when cold . On heating , do what Mien advised : add some water or broth to the soup to the consistency that you want . You will have to heat slowly because otherwise the soup will stick to the bottom of the pan and burn . Do n't forget to thoroughly heat the soup and let is simmer for at least 10 ' to kill any unwanted visitors ( germs ) before serving .
Like many crafts which originated in Japan , their sushi training more or less creates sushi artisans . If you just want to make a snack , you 'll have plenty of ability given a basic review of techniques . You should focus your learning on understanding food-safety , getting the rice right , and making the roll not fall apart . The rest is just levels of mastery which you need not approach in your kitchen in order to experiment and enjoy a good dish .
Basmati rice is supposed to flow freely though , if it clumps , you are using it against the norm and should probably stick with a stickier rice . Usually Basmati is used Pilau style , or in a Biryiani , then the grains are slightly coated in some form of fat ( oil , ghee , etc ) , so the starch you would definitely want rid of .
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
Yes , you can squeeze citrus too much . That bitterness you sometimes taste in citrus fruit comes from limonin , a compound that most people can detect at concentrations as small as a few parts per million . In many citrus fruits the limonin is created once the acids of the juice vesicles interact with LARL , a tasteless substance in the fruit 's tissues ( <URL> ) . In the juice of a squeezed lime the reaction from LARL to limonin takes a few hours to complete , so if it is very fresh it will not be as bitter . Over-squeezing , as in using a pestle , will expose more of the tissue ( and therefore LARL ) resulting in more bitterness later on . If the peels are in the mix , it will also extract some of the oils ( mainly limonene ) from the peel , which is very bitter . So bitter , that <URL> are designed so that the juice extracts never touch the peel . During summer , guests often ask for caipirinhas at our house . I like to imagine that it is because I peel my limes , remove most of the white pith including stem , and try to mash the limes just before mixing the drink . This way it requires less sugar allowing those great citrus flavors to stand out .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
In my experience ( and I 'm only an amateur baker ) , you could leave this until you get back and knock it back then . If you leave it really long ( e.g. 24 hours ) , you might find it just does n't have enough life left in it to rise again properly after , but an extra hour or so will probably improve it - I 've always found that recipes err on the side of speed . For a 2 hour prove time , I 'd keep it slightly cool but not fridge-cool . Since you 're using a very wet dough , you will find it gets a little stickier the longer you leave it , so might need slightly more flour when shaping . Having said that , I 've recently been experimenting with really long rise times ( 12-24 hours , for ciabatta ) - I just have n't found a happy medium yet that suits me .
Tea contains a lot of flavinoid compounds notably tannins . Tannins are astringent and have a very strong bitter flavor . The tannins are released much more slowly compared to the other flavor compounds . So when brewed for too long or too hot , much more tannins are released into the brew along and hence the resulting tea is much more bitter .
How much is too much is a totally subjective thing . Yes , there is such a thing as too much , but where that point is will vary among tasters . There is no objective question here to answer . No one answer to the question will be " correct " . I really like vanilla , and I like flavors to be on the rich side , so I tend to be a bit heavy-handed with vanilla . A few ( very few ) times I have been surprised to have that heavy-handedness criticized . Why would they not like my amazing vanilla ice cream ? They experience vanilla differently than I do . What is ideal for me may be overdone , even cloying , to my neighbor . So , when it comes to various flavorings ( vanilla is just one of many ) , get to know your own " likes " and what your audience likes . After that , you can ignore what the recipe says and just do what feels right to you , knowing your audience and the potency of your ingredients as well .
Moisten your hands with a clean , damp towel . This helps the rice not stick . Look at any sushi bar ; the chef will be frequently moistening their hands on such a towel .
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
Gravy is supposed to be opaque and is a result of using flour as the thickener . If you want clear gravy , like what you would get in a Chinese restaurant , then you need to use corn starch or arrowroot as your thickener . But the opacity is considered to be a good thing . It 's the canned stuff you buy in the store that is clear .
end question
start question
How do I tell if a rutabaga is fresh ?
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
Ground beef cooks quite fast . It does n't need more than 5 minutes ( depending on the base of your pan and the amount of meat of course ) . Just take a piece and rip/cut it open . If it 's brown inside , and not red or pink , it 's fully cooked .
Good Eats ( Alton Brown ) has some good descriptions of the various difference 's between potatos . He has an <URL> Main thing is the starch content in them . He has an example of each of the three groups ( High , Medium , Low ) , includign a brief description and sample application . He mentions mentions frying in the High Starch content group , specifically Russets . He then has another <URL> , where he actually talks about French Fries and again mentions the Russet ( High Starch ) . While you can make fries out of different types of potatoes ( some of the more " all purpose " potatoes ) , if you want a really good classic french fry , you 're going to want to look for a Russet , with a similar starch content . Here 's a <URL> . Maybe you can look to see what you bought ? The age will probably affect it . A younger potato will in fact be sweeter So , to answer your specific questions . I 'm betting you did in fact buy a potato . It 's probably just a sweeter variety . If it does n't say at the market where you bought it what kind they are , I 'd ask the people who work there . Also , look at the third link I have above , it does have a few pictures as well as good descriptions on what they look like .
<URL> by Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page has a large section on food pairings . For carrots they mention orange , ginger , lemon , basil and mint . I think any of these could work well , if done right . My suggestion would be first to use really good , flavorful carrots -- preferably from a farmer 's market . Second , I would tone down or even leave out some of the usual carrot cake spices so that you do n't cover up the carrot flavor or the subtle flavors of your possible additions . Maybe fresh or candied ginger in the cake itself would be good . Orange or lemon curd and/or zest would work particulary well in offsetting the cream cheese icing . I 'm thinking basil and mint might be better saved for another dessert .
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
Look at : <URL> Conversion Measurements for Using Different Yeasts in Recipes :
Doing a bit of Googling , it seems that there are a couple of different methods but I think the one that will please you best is to : put a piece of plastic wrap on the cut side only place it cut side down on a plate or plastic container leave it on the counter Some recommend putting it in the fridge regardless , as the cut side is prone to bacterial infection . I would probably recommend using it within 24 hours , though . Maybe add it to a salad at dinner ? Personally , I just eat the rest of the tomato along with the rest of my lunch sandwich . Source : <URL> Among others . There was a good deal of consensus on this issue .
In my experience , the answer for most leafy herbs is yes , fragance and flavor is preserved . Never tryed hyssop , however <URL> site says it freezes fine : it can be dried or frozen and stored for later use . When harvesting a hyssop plant , cut it in the morning hours once any dew has dried . Hang the plants upside down in small bunches to dry in a dark , well-ventilated area . Alternatively , you can place the leaves in a plastic bag after removing them from the stems and place in the freezer until ready to use .
assuming you put a piece of foil between the crust and rice , just lift up an edge to check it . .
I 'd suggest a <URL> AND an instant read digital thermometer like the <URL> ( which is pretty cheap ) or the <URL> ( which is n't ) . A leave-in probe lets you monitor the general progress of the food , giving you a good way to gauge how much cooking time remains without having to open the oven and slow down the process . The instant read variety is great for checking the internal temperature of all sorts of food that you might not normally measure -- steaks on the grill , mashed potatoes , stocks and soups ( to make sure that they 're cooling quickly enough ) , bread ( to check for doneness ) ... Both leave-in and instant read are extremely useful , and neither of them will expose your turkey to the risk of glass shards .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
If a magnet sticks to it , it 's ferrous . I 'd like to give a more elaborate answer , but there is n't anything more to it .
Open it up . If it 's soft and pale brown or darker inside too , it 's overripe and no longer good for eating straight ; however , it can be used in baking , banana bread , or smoothies . Once it 's black , the banana is garbage .
How long this will last depends largely on the ratio of sugar to water in the final syrup . Sugar can inhibit the growth of microbes by reducing the <URL> of the solution , but this is dependent on the amount of sugar . According to a <URL> that I consider quite reliable on these matters , a syrup composed of equal parts sugar and water ( by mass , not volume ! ) will generally keep unspoiled for about 2 weeks . A syrup with 2 parts sugar to 1 part water will keep as long as 3 months . These both assume that you 're keeping the syrup refrigerated in an airtight container , which it sounds like you are . Unfortunately , unless you know the exact ratio , it 's tough to predict exactly how long this will last . Discard immediately if you notice any of the following : Any visible mold ( hopefully this one 's obvious ) A cloudier appearance ( harder to judge since you have some suspended particles ; you might try running it through a fine-mesh strainer ) Any gas bubbles or outgassing when you open the container ( this is a sign of <URL> ) You might also consider adding a small amount of alcohol . This provides another hurdle to microbial growth , and would extend your syrup 's shelf life to somewhere between 3-6 months . I generally add about 1/2 oz of 80-proof ( 40 % ABV ) vodka per 8 oz or so of syrup . Regarding a mason jar , the main advantage these have is that they wo n't trap flavors the way that plastic can when re-used . A strongly-flavored substance stored in plastic for a time can contribute some of its flavor to the next . Since you 're storing a strongly-flavored ginger syrup in a former soda water bottle ( which is nearly tasteless ) this probably is n't a concern , but if you used the bottle again whatever you put in it might come out tasting subtly of ginger . Glass does n't have this problem .
Per the information on <URL> , there is no mention of the pan being pre-seasoned . But there is also no mention of needing to do so . From the maintenance tab on the linked page : Before you cook Remove all labels and packaging materials . Before using your new cookware , wash thoroughly in hot soapy water using a soft cloth or sponge . Dry completely . General cooking tips Prior to each use , it is recommended to add a teaspoon of cooking oil for better cooking results . Never heat an empty utensil . Be sure there is oil , butter , liquid or food before placing the cookware on the range or burner . It is not recommended to use high heat . Cooking on excessive heat can cause permanent damage to the surface and utensil . Never cut anything in the cookware or use utensils with sharp edges as to avoid damaging the surface . Add salt to water only after is has come to a boil . Salt grain deposit on the cookware bottom will attack the metal as the heat melts it down . There is also other information about cleaning and oven use . All said , I do n't follow a set rule about seasoning non-stick cookware even though I 've often seen it recommended . But when I have heated oil in a non-stick pan it does seem to do better afterwards , especially with older pans . And I always hand wash non-stick cookware . To sum up , I do n't see how you could cause any harm by pre-seasoning the pan and occasionally reseasoning , even if it does n't need it . But this is based on my experience and I have n't used this brand . The only other thing I can suggest is to contact the company and see what they say . Since they do n't mention pre-seasoning , I suspect they will say it is n't necessary . If you do contact them , we 'd be interested in what you find out . And welcome to Seasoned Advice ! EDIT : I was assuming that the OP knew about seasoning a non-stick pan , as the question is about how to tell if a non-stick pan is pre-seasoned when new . To be very clear , seasoning a non-stick pan is NOT the same thing as seasoning a cast iron or other bare metal pan . Should you ( or anyone ) decide to season a non-stick pan , please make sure to follow a recommended procedure .
Sometimes the outer leaves are a bit leathery ( especially if the quality is n't too god ) . When that 's the case I remove them first . Next , I remove the green stalks -- but Jefromi is right , the tiny leaves are delicious . The kernel in the middle near the base of the fennel bulb is very hard . I usually cut it out by halving the bulb along its length and making two incisions with a sharp knife on either side of the kernel . I chop the rest of the bulb so that it yields thin concentric slices .
How to see if your pasta is " al dente " : If your pasta cooks about in 10 minutes ( for example ) , when you put pasta into the boiling water take one pasta after 8 minute ( about 20 % before the time of cook ) , bite it and observe the pasta : the external is more yellow than the internal that is white . When the internal white disappears the pasta has cooked " normale " , when the internal white is small the pasta is " al dente " . Greetings from Italy Everybody know cooking , not everybody speak english very well
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
They do change color , just not so obviously as normal bananas . There 's a slight greenish tint that disappears as they ripen , and the red becomes a bit deeper ( some people say purplish ) . They also get softer - including the skin getting more tender , just like yellow banana skin . Just think about how bananas feel when ripe , feel your red bananas , and ( perhaps with a tiny bit of trial and error ) you can figure it out .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
end question
start question
What is the sign of mozzarella being old ?
Mozzarella comes in different variations ... There are a few things to look and smell for to determine it they are " off " . Aged or drier varieties may have visible mold on the exterior . Pre-grated mozzarella can also exhibit visible mold as well as a sour or yeasty smell . Brined varieties may have a musty , sour , or smelly-foot odor or an excessively cloudy brine . If you see visible mold on a drier variety , you can just cut it off and use the remaining cheese as normal as long as it does n't smell . If you plan on cooking or melting the cheese , it would likely be safe to eat , but may not taste normal . Moist cheeses like mozzarella can harbor Listeria , E coli , brucella , and salmonella so if you are in doubt and not interested in a bout of food poisoning , it 's best just to throw it out . To keep brined varieties fresh longer keep it refrigerated and replace the brine daily , the replacement brine should taste salty like the ocean . Even so , it should really be eaten within 2-3 days .
In this case , inoculation refers to the introduction of yoghurt bacteria ( <URL> ) that transform the milk into yoghurt . If anything goes wrong - from unclean conditions that let other bacteria grow to unfavourable temperatures that inhibit the proper growth of your desired lactobacillae - you speak of improper inoculation . The effects on taste and possibly food-safety have been discussed in your linked posts . So work in a clean environment , use a good strain of bacteria and maintain the recommended temperature range to prevent this .
Vermouth is a fortified white wine that has been infused with herbs , spices and fruits . You should expect it to add those flavors to your dish . Have you tasted the vermouth on its own ? Are you sure you ca n't identify it ? If you still think you ca n't , I 'd suggest tasting your soup as you add each ingredient and concentrate on what flavors each ingredient adds . For what it 's worth , Cooks Illustrated has reviewed Martini &amp; Rossi Extra Dry and classified it as " not recommended " due to tasting medicinal and harsh . Gallo Extra Dry California and Noilly Prat Original French were both recommended , in that order . They used a pan sauce as well as straight tasting for their reviews . Perhaps you could try that yourself and see what flavors vermouth gives to a pan sauce , as compared to a white wine . You might find out that you 're overpowering or masking a flavor in your vermouth with some of your various herbs &amp; spices .
The smoky flavour of barbecued foods is best achieved through burning lump charcoal or hardwood . In the scenario you 're describing , yes , burning hardwood and then cooking over the coals would give you a smoky flavour Store bought briquettes actually probably give you less of a smoky flavour because instead of using wood , many briquettes use other materials/binders that do n't give you the smoky flavour you want .
Specifically , the reason you whisk it in slowly at first is to create small drops . If you just dump the oil in fast , it will adhere to itself and make it impossible to break up into droplets dispersed in the vinegar ( or other water based liquid , such as lemon juice ) . This is the definition of an emulsion : tiny droplets of one liquid evenly dispersed in another . Once you 've got the emulsion started , you can pour in the oil a bit faster because the already suspended droplets reduce the room for a big blob of oil to form , and act sort of as " sandpaper " to break up the incoming stream as you whisk .
Honeycomb can be made with honey or molasses but the flavor will not be the same . There is n't a US equivalent - we have molasses , but it 's darker . You can substitute corn syrup in recipes where it is n't the principal ingredient , but here that would not work . That being said , my local grocery store has a British food section which carries golden syrup . You probably do n't have to substitute , you just need to find it in your local grocer .
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
Fix Compacted Flour . Flour will compact over time ( and during shipment ) . You could sift the flour to fluff it back up . Or , you could just stir it before measuring and be sure to spoon the flour into your measuring cup in order to get a correct volume measurement . Remove Unwanted Material . Yes , sifting would also remove larger pieces or bits of chaff . It would also remove insects . However , neither of these are problems with modern store-bought flour . If you grind your own flour ( my sister-in-law does this ) , then you may still want to sift it , though . Mix Ingredients Together . Sifting can also be used to mix other dry ingredients into flour . I bake quite a bit , though , and I 've never had a problem with just using a spoon or whisk to mix dry ingredients together . In summary : do n't bother . Just use good measuring techniques and stir your ingredients together well . No one likes a lump of baking powder lurking in a muffin !
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
The lack of vent holes would have been a problem . Vent holes allow steam to escape , reducing the amount of internal moisture . This moisture will both prevent the crust from cooking fully through , and will cause the crust to soften as after it comes out of the oven . That 's not to say that there was n't also some other problem , just this is one thing that you should correct .
Historically , these grades were established before white cane sugar became inexpensive and common , so the " best " maple syrup was the least strong , or Grade A . Now we seek out that maple flavor on corn flapjacks or waffles , so the " best " maple syrup is Grade B. I find that the best pancakes are made with 2/3 cornmeal to 1/3 whole wheat or buckwheat flour ( or any wheat flour , really ) rather than just pancake mix . The cornmeal makes them crisp . And Grade B maple syrup , of course .
I had an application not long ago for which I needed the answer to the question as written . <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has a recipe for banana bread that I love . I save over-ripe banana chunks in the freezer until I feel like making banana bread . The recipe calls for " 6 large very ripe bananas ( about 2 1/4 pounds ) , peeled " . My bananas were already peeled and chunked . I wanted to follow the recipe very precisely because the recipe and particular methods were new to me . So how much peeled banana equals 2.25 pounds of unpeeled banana ? My doctor has been nagging me to eat breakfast , so most days I manage to eat a banana early in my day . For one week I weighed the banana unpeeled and peeled . Then I struck an average . My average banana weighed 183 grams unpeeled , 116 grams peeled . 185/116 = 1.58 . So , 2.25 pounds ( 1021 grams ) of unpeeled banana = 1.43 pounds ( 647 grams ) of peeled banana . My average banana ( very average in the store , Dole brand ) was 62.4 % edible .
There are a number of sites that provide diagrams and information on the different cuts , one fairly extensive resource is <URL> Edit : Made a change due to comment .
If it is stale or rancid , you will get substandard muffins that simply do n't taste very good . Usually you would smell rancidity . It is unlikely to have suffered mold or other decay if it still smells just like corn , but ... cornmeal is quite inexpensive , at least in the US . You might want to buy a new bag .
It is simply to add tartness to add some balance against the sugar . The water from the vinegar will evaporate and leave behind acetic acid . There is an old fashioned type of hard candy known as <URL> . Your lollipop is essentially just that candy on a stick .
Mozzarella comes in different variations ... There are a few things to look and smell for to determine it they are " off " . Aged or drier varieties may have visible mold on the exterior . Pre-grated mozzarella can also exhibit visible mold as well as a sour or yeasty smell . Brined varieties may have a musty , sour , or smelly-foot odor or an excessively cloudy brine . If you see visible mold on a drier variety , you can just cut it off and use the remaining cheese as normal as long as it does n't smell . If you plan on cooking or melting the cheese , it would likely be safe to eat , but may not taste normal . Moist cheeses like mozzarella can harbor Listeria , E coli , brucella , and salmonella so if you are in doubt and not interested in a bout of food poisoning , it 's best just to throw it out . To keep brined varieties fresh longer keep it refrigerated and replace the brine daily , the replacement brine should taste salty like the ocean . Even so , it should really be eaten within 2-3 days .
<URL> What is in a Hostess Set , Serving Set and an Entertainment Set ? A simple way to remember what pieces are in a Hostess Set is : The word Hostess starts with an " H " everything in a Hostess Set holds something . Hostess Set : Gravy Ladle , Tablespoon , Sugar Spoon Serving Set : Serving Fork , Butter Knife , Pierced Tablespoon Entertainment Set : Casserole Spoon , Dessert Server
end question
start question
How to tell when cheesecake is done ?
Cheesecake is a custard , so your very best indicator of doneness is temperature . There are a range of opinions , from about 150 F to 165 F / 65 C to 73 C , measured at the center of the pan , in the center of the layer . If you do n't have an instant read thermometer , generally , you want a thin knife to come out clean from the center ; similarly , when the pan is shaken a bit , only the center should jiggle slightly . These indicators are not as good as temperature , so you will need to gain experiene to interpret them . Once you are measuring properly , problems with the top of the cheesecake being done , but the inside being too unset may be mitigated by : Baking in a water bath ( which you indicate you are already doing ) Baking at a lower temperature ( within reason ; you indicate you are already baking at a fairly low temperature ) Baking in a wider pan , so the cheesecake is more shallow Do not use convection Since you area already using a bath and a low baking temperature , if you are still having problems once you start checking for doneness by temperature , I would suggest checking your oven 's calibration with an oven thermometer to be sure it is not running hot .
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
Basically it all depends on temperature : Every fat or oil has a specific smoke point ( <URL> ) , at which temperature it starts to degrade . That means , not all oils are suitable for every heat , or all types of frying . Some types of oil should remain " cold " , like extra-virgin olive oil . Butter has a rather low smoke point ( 325-375 ° F or 163-190 ° C ) due to milk solids . So , frying with butter is a bit tricky temperature-wise , but often butter is choosen for taste . ( Clarified butter , on the other hand , has a smoke point of ca. 485 ° F or 252 ° C , which makes it usable for pan - or deep-frying . The taste is somewhat similar to butter , but not equal . ) As eggs are typically fried at a " low " temperature , using butter is fine . An example from the opposite end of the heat range would be asian cuisine , where food is prepared in a wok at very high heat . ( I wo n't give recommendations what to use &amp; when , as there are subtle differences , even between brands . If in doubt , read the label . ) So , to cut a long story short : Decide what you want to do , how hot your pan is going to be and pick the matching oil .
When I buy hot chilies , I look for firm , uniformly bright ( or dark , depending on the type ) green specimens . Unless I 'm in a big hurry , I pick through the pile and choose them individually . I avoid any that are soft , discolored ( including the ends ) , missing caps ( the part that attaches to the stem -- they spoil faster after this is removed ) , wrinkly or otherwise look damaged or old . If your store does n't have any that look bright green , crisp and plump , try to find a new place to buy them , or just buy them in smaller quantities and get the least disreputable specimens and use them immediately . You want to buy chilies from a place that has a high turnover on them and most supermarket produce sections do n't really do that much business in hot peppers , so they tend to sit for a while . My favorite place to buy green chilies is at Indian markets ( the busier , the better for turnover ) , second favorite is other Asian food markets , then other specialty markets from places that like spicy food , then farmers ' markets , then a long way down the list , regular grocery stores . When I get them home , I clean them off by hand ( remove any stray leaves or any bad ones I accidentally missed , etc ) and put them in the fridge in a lightly closed baggie . If I bought a large amount ( or if I happen to be growing them and have a lot ripe at once ) , I will sometimes freeze them . I have a small bag of frozen habaneros at home right now . The texture is most definitely affected by freezing , but the flavor is n't ( unless you keep them so long that they get freezer-burned ) , so if you are planning to cook with them , freezing is perfectly fine . I usually do n't wash them before storing , just pick them over . I wash them just before using them , whether I get them from the garden , the store , the fridge or the freezer . If I have chilies I 'm not sure about , I do smell and taste them to see if they are ok . If they feel/smell/taste weird , I do n't put them in the dish . I 'd rather replace green chilies with red pepper powder instead of using something iffy .
Unbaked lumps probably mean you are n't mixing it enough . Try starting with a little less flour and knead in more as you go . Another issue is you may not be kneading it enough . Next time try using the <URL> . You do n't have to do this every time , but if you 're having trouble with a specific recipe this will help you figure out how the dough should " feel " when its ready by giving you a visual indicator . I 've found that when I have dough rising problems , it 's usually because I did n't knead long enough . This should also help fix your mixing issue . That being said , there are two good methods to see if dough has risen enough . One is to let it rise in a marked container ( though this does n't work well for shaped loaves or if you are n't supposed to let it double ) . The other is the poke test . From a <URL> : To test for doneness , use the finger test : Poke it with 2 fingers ; it holds the indentation , it 's ready . Generally I poke it and if it pops right back out , it 's not ready . For sourdough , if it holds its shape for a moment and then slowly starts to expand back , it 's perfect . For other breads , holding the indentation is a good indicator . This is n't necessarily advisable for delicate doughs . If you 're working with a delicate dough , try the test on one loaf that you do n't " need " to be perfect . You can use this as a relative time measurement for the future .
If you 're making a sauce that is n't supposed to curdle , and it does , you throw it out and start over .
I use an instant-read thermometer . It 's by far the simplest method . I use the <URL> . As Darin states , you 're shooting for 165 ℉ for turkey . My old Taylor died a few weeks ago . After reading rave reviews from Cooks Illustrated , and Alton Brown 's recommendation , I splurged and got a <URL> . It is amazing !
Take an egg from the carton and ' spin ' it on the work counter . If it spins , it 's cooked , if it does anything else , it 's not .
To make a perfect burger in the kitchen , a hot cast-iron skillet is your best friend . To keep from making a mess , use one of these : That 's a <URL> . It allows air to move freely , but keeps grease in the pan and off of your walls . EDIT : In comments , Cindy Askew recommended the above plus using the cheapest available aluminum foil to protect surrounding areas from the grease and noted that the aluminum foil used in that way can continue to be useful as a disposable spoon/utensil rest . In a sense , this answer being accepted encompasses that comment as a part of this answer .
The water pan does affect humidity in the cooking chamber and therefore , it does change the how quickly moisture evaporates out of the meat . The question really becomes - " Will the meat be moist enough without the water pan ? " Which , to a degree , is personal preference . Some choose to not use a water pan and baste instead , some use both and some neither . I would recommend trial and error . Brisket is relatively pricey so I would recommend using pork shoulders . Smoke one with the pan and one without and see if you think the moisture content is satisfactory . The briskets wo n't cook exactly the same but the relative moisture level in the shoulders should give you a decent estimate . I personally always use a water pan , but I do n't usually fear meat from a smoker being " too moist " , and it does wonders for temperature stabilization . I also have a larger smoking chamber than a WSM so it 's possible that too moist is a larger concern for you . One last note , while cooking too hot for too long will inevitably dry out your meat , cutting a brisket or shoulder without letting it set for at least an hour ( ideally 2 ) after cooking will also dry it out .
it 's possible that the heat only comes from the burner/element at the bottom . Especially if you have a gas oven . Try bufferring the bottom of the bread with a pizza stone . A terracotta clay pot saucer , or practically any unglazed natural stone tile can substitute . Marble or granite are not ok .
Gelatin is quite tolerant , but with a few restrictions : Never boil gelatine , because it looses it 's binding/gelling properties . Liquifying gelatine requires temperatures that feel " warm " to the touch , but not all recipes handle warm additions well - e.g. whipped cream . Cooling liquid gelatine for heat sensitive recipes should happen fairly quick , and so should incorporating the coolish gelatine to the other ingredients : Stir well or you end up with " gummy bear " - like lumps . So without knowing the details of your recipe I suggest using fairly warm water in the range of " warm bath water " or " comfortable for washing hands " but not at all " hot " . ( Note that I do n't give a precise temperature range on purpose . ) Hot tap water should suffice , but heating it on the stove is fine , too . Just use gentle heat and do n't let the gelatine rest on the bottom of the pot to avoid overheating . Depending on your next steps , you might want to stir the liquid gelatine until it 's barely warm to the touch or add a few spoonfulls of whatever cool mixture you are planning to bind , stir , then add to the rest . For warm other ingredients , extra cooling is not required , just mix and let set .
Soy sauce is pretty salty . It sounds like a great deal of water diffused out of your chicken and into the marinade , which significantly changed the texture of the meat . It 's not uncommon to do something like this on purpose . When you make gravlax , for example , you cover a piece of salmon with quite a bit of salt and refrigerate it for a day or two . The salt draws out a lot of moisture , causing the fish to firm up considerably . Even though your soy sauce marinade was liquid , it still had a much higher salt concentration ( or to think of it another way , a much lower water concentration ) than the chicken , and would have had the same effect .
Given that the frying of a cube of bread is a test for oil temperature , I suspect one or both of two things are happening here - 1 The oil is not at the correct temperature when the cubes of bread are dropped in it ; and 2 The oil temperature drops when you add too many cubes in at the same time so some get burnt and some end up soggy for the single time duration you 're cooking them for . Suggested solutions - 1 Ensure the oil is at the correct temperature for the level of browness you want the cubes of bread to be fried to . 2 Do n't over-crowd the pan . Fry them in batches , ensuring the oil temperature rises back to the correct one before the next batch is fried .
Generally , raw beetroot should n't become soft . The thing is that there are differing definitions of soft . If it is soft like a tomato is , then it has probably spoiled . If , on the other hand , it is still firm but has little " give " to it , then it 's probably alright to eat . It is the cooking that softens it up , though it can be eaten raw . I grate some raw beetroot into salads and stuff occasionaly , just for fun . I 'm not sure what to say about the smell thing . I think that raw beetroot generally smells a little earthy , especially if you have n't peeled it yet . The very distinct beetroot smell is usually released by cooking . Obviously this is all a bit vague , as we ca n't send smells over the net yet .
Use a vegetable peeler to peel of large strips of rind . That way , it 'll be easier to remove once you 're done steeping . If you do n't mind it being mildly alcoholic , steep them in vodka and then strain the vodka into the lemonade .
There is n't really a " test " , per se , to tell if a bread is a " real sourdough " or not . Without getting overly technical , the tangy " sour " is created by a lactobacillus ( bacteria ) culture feeding on the byproducts of the yeast used to make the dough rise . The byproducts of the bacteria produce the lactic acids which give the resulting bread its sour taste . The taste of sourdough can be simulated by adding other acidic components to the bread dough . Practically speaking , the only way to tell the difference is if you have the experience of a refined palate that you recognize the taste difference . Ah , but here 's the tricky part . Once a baker has a stable culture of yeast and bacteria ( starter ) , they 'll save a bit of the fermented dough to add to the next batch , and so on for batch after batch . It is not unusual for bakers to continue their culture for years or even decades . So the problem of recognizing the authenticity of sourdough is that each bakers ' sourdough will have it 's own distinctive taste . Yikes . So much for the standard taste test . There is one test I can think of ; although , I do n't know how practical this is : A very " healthy " sour dough culture is the result of having reached a really stable and balanced , symbiotic relationship between the yeast and bacteria . This is desirable because it prevents other undesirable bacteria from setting up shop . Because of this inherent stability , real sourdough breads are very resistant to mold and other reactions that cause them to go bad . So , if your sourdough bread seems to last longer then you would expect from fresh bread , that might be a good indication of real sourdough . Of course , this can also be the result of preservatives added to the bread ; so & hellip ; no help there .
You should throw them out . Mussels that do n't open were quite possibly dead and decomposing for an unknown period of time prior to cooking . You do n't want to take a chance here . Just in case future readers do n't know , mussels , clams , and other in-shell shellfish are still alive when you buy them , and they should be still alive when you cook them .
Al dente cooking is a transitional state that lasts for a very short amount of time ( one minute longer in boiling water makes pasta too soft , one minute shorter and it 's still crunchy ) . For this reason , authentic Italian pasta packages state a precise cooking time , which is very reliable to make a good al dente pasta . A cooking time interval ( e.g. " 7 to 10 minutes " ) is usually given to accommodate to other countries taste , who may prefer a softer pasta , and therefore its presence could be a good indicator of an Italian look-alike pasta brand . In this case the lower figure indicates the al dente cooking . Lacking this information , a good cooking time can be figured by cross section size , length and shape of pasta : obviously , thicker and squat formats require more time . Complex shapes , such as farfalle , can be trickier because a thick core could reach the al dente cooking while the thinner edges are already too soft . As a rule of thumb , cooking times for common pasta formats are : Long and very thin ( spaghettini , bavette ) : 6 min Long and thin ( spaghetti , linguine , bucatini ) : 8 min Short and thick ( maccheroni , rigatoni , fusilli ) : 12 min Small and thick ( farfalle ) : 8 min Small and thin ( pasta usually boiled straight into broth ) : 6 min These cooking times apply only for dry durum-wheat pasta ; other types ( such as fresh egg pasta ) usually have a shorter cooking time . After straining the boiling water , pasta continues to cook by its own heat ; for this reason it has to be eaten as soon as possible . Only for some Italian regional recipes ( typically pasta boiled straight into a thick vegetable juice , e.g. pasta with beans , pasta with potatoes ) you may want to let it rest for up to 5 minutes after straining to let the juices coagulate . Also , for recipes where pasta has to undergo a second cooking after boiling ( e.g. stir frying in a pan with vegetables , shrimps , mushrooms , etc. ) a better result is obtained by boiling pasta just one minute less than the cooking time given on the package .
I usually assume that if the bottle does n't specify ( and you bought it off a shelf , not out of a refrigerated area ) , then it 's safe to store in the cupboard . You can also ask at the store if you want to be sure , though I suspect unless it 's a small , specialty store with knowledgeable personnel , they will err on the side of caution and just tell you to refrigerate it . For your specific examples : Soy sauce is definitely fine to store in the cupboard , though some brands will recommend refrigeration for " best quality " . Fish sauce I 'd usually store in the fridge once opened .
end question
start question
What is the proper amount of time to thaw + brine a turkey simultaneously ?
A few things are n't quite right here . 1 - a cooler full of water for 3 days . A turkey will take 3-4 days to thaw in the fridge - between 35-40F . Quicker methods call for submerging in running water for some hours . Submerging the turkey in stagnant water - even if it started as ice water - will allow the turkey to rise well above 40F over the course of 3 days . You would have to add ice or have the turkey somewhere colder than 40F for this to be safe . 2 - brining too long turning a turkey to mush . The salt in a brine denatures some proteins and supercharges the bird with water . These will make the meat more tender and seem more tender respectively . That said - the risk is n't that the meat will get mushy . Unless you are adding some other ingredient to the brine that is actually a proteinase like papain the risk is not mushiness but being too salty . 3 - 1-2 days of brining . I have never seen a recipe that called for brining this long . The brine recipes I have seen are on the order of 4-10 hours . If your brine recipe calls for this length of time then it is probably more dilute than the ones I use . In such a case it would probably be fine to thaw it in the brine if you address the safety concern . The turkey being frozen will prevent the brine from penetrating but as the bird thaws from the outside in the outside of the bird will have more alone time with the brine than the deeper meat . I ca n't say whether this would be a problem - especially as Harold McGee says that the salt from brining is n't able to penetrate very far into the meat anyway . Unless it is cold enough outside ( or you have enough fridge space ) that you could brine the turkey at < 40F for 2 days while it thawed I would recommend at least mostly thawing it before introducing it to your brine .
It 's not too much water that makes them soggy , it 's cooking them for too long in the water . Thin noodles are virtually done as soon as they break out of their dry , tablet shape . As soon as this happens , take a noodle out and test it . Remember that cooking will continue even after you drain the noodles . You should drain the noodles well in a colander . If you are planning on stir frying the noodles , you need to first wash the starch off them - run the cold water tap over them and circulate it through the noodles with your hand ( carefully , they might still be hot in the middle ) . They then need to be dried as much possible - spread them out on a board , pat with paper towel , and leave for ten minutes or so before stir frying ( preferably in an empty wok - cook the rest of the stir fry first , then empty it , cook the noodles , and re-add the meat etc. )
The General Mills site has the <URL> of the " original " pancake mix along with it 's nutrition facts . The serving size is 1/3 cup mix ( 40 g ) This means that one cup of the mix should weigh 120 g ( 4-1/4 oz ) .
The vast majority of recipes I find call for marshmallows to be added at the last second , and cooked only long enough for them to melt . Usually then a heavy frosting is added to top the whole thing , giving the illusion of marshmallow inside the brownie . Find an example <URL> . I 've also seen really " wet " brownies with lots of included chocolate chips and butterscotch , which contain non-disgusting looking marshmallows . I 've never personally tried these because they seem overly sweet , but they 're the only ones I 've seen that contain marshmallows that seem to retain elasticity after a normal baking period . See examples <URL> and <URL> . For my money , I 'd probably just sprinkle some marshmallows over the top of regular brownies during the last 3-4 minutes of baking . Quick , simple , not overcooked .
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
Its possible that when you drink a hot liquid , you swish it around your mouth a lot less than when you drink a cold liquid , and thus fewer of the taste buds on your tongue are exposed to it . This would n't be surprising : it 's hot after all . Another possibility is that if you 're starting with hot coffee , and adding sugar to it , that the sugar is n't fully dissolved when you drink it hot ( it takes time , especially if you do n't stir it much ) , but has dissolved by the time the coffee cools . With more dissolved sugar , it is sweeter .
I always make a tofu turkey by blending tofu with herbs and flavorings and then draining over night in a colander dressed with a kitchen towel . The next day I shape the tofu info a turkey shape with stuffing inside , wrap it in a soaked yuba sheat and bake it in the oven , brushing with butter and marinade occasionally . This " turkey " will not have the texture of turkey meat but it will be carvable . The skin will have a texture similar to turkey skin . The flavor of this " turkey " ( I use a lot of sage , light miso and poultry seasoning ) is very traditional and goes well together with above mentioned gravies and stuffings . When brushed with enough marinade and butter it will be moist if a little crumbly . I spent about 10 $ on the tofu ( 6 blocks of 450 g each ) , 2.50 $ on the skin and 5 $ on the herbs . If you have buy seasoning , miso , etc , it will cost more .
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
It is possible to over brine meat . If you leave it in too long it will get too salty . If you use a more dilute brine it wo n't get as salty but you will wash out more of the natural flavor into the water as well . You could submerge your turkey in its packaging in ice water in a cooler for a day before brining . You could even thaw the turkey in this manner if you made sure to keep it in ice water so it did n't get to 40F .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
When making the slurry , stir cornstarch into cold water until it has the consistency of cream . This can be set aside until it 's needed , but be sure to stir it briefly before you pour it into the sauce to redistribute the starch granules in the water . You should pour it into your sauce toward the end of its preparation . According to McGee you should use roughly 2/3 as much starch as you would flour . If you are n't using a recipe , add your slurry a bit at time until it 's a thick as you like it . Also remember that the sauce will thicken a bit as it cools , so it should be a little bit thinner on the stove than you intend to serve it .
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
For different food types there is no single correct answer , as it is very dependent on the specific microwave energy absorption and reflectance characteristics of each item ( food and container ) in the microwave oven It 's possible to put one item in which has a high absorbency and one with a low absorbency , and to have one fully cooked and the other still cold e.g. . A potato placed in a ceramic bowl , and a sausage on a glass plate , would result in a hot sausage , and a cold potato ( amusing sausage and potato are of same weight ) For similar food types a general multiplication is required , but not exactly by weight , as each microwave oven has an ' efficiency to food and weight ' exponential curve . You will find the result of this out by experience with the oven . This rule applies somewhat to normal thermal convection ovens too e.g. 250 g of potato takes 6 minutes in your microwave oven , then 500 g may take 9 minutes not 12 minutes , and 1 Kg may take only 12 minutes , until you reach the equilibrium point of no further improvement ( about 1 Kg for my domestic microwave oven )
It is to cool it down without dilluting it - ice cubes would melt . And yes , you could simply cool the entire bottle , but it would n't look that fancy . Note that some purists would wrinkle their noses and insist that whisky1 is best enjoyed at room temperature and perhaps with a small dash of spring water . 1 And I 'm soooo not going into a whisky vs. whiskey debate here .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
This answer assumes the US-type of pancake . There are some pancake recipes with no egg at all . So the question is , what does the egg do in a pancake recipe ? It contributes soem fat and emulsifiers from the yolk , some water , and a bunch of protein ( mostly from the whites ) . This will add structure to the pancake , some eggy flavor and richness , and perhaps somewhat mitigate the danger of toughening the pancake through over mixing , by inhibiting gluten formation ( mostly due to the fat and lecithin from the yolk ) . However , as you have already discovered , the egg is not completely essential to the pancake , which basically a griddled quick bread , and can easily get all of the structure it needs from the gelatinization of the starch from the flour . Adding lots more eggs would start to move you into custard or quiche-like territory , where the product would have a lot more egg flavor , and start to take on a more scrambled-egg type texture depending on how far you go . You will get less flavor but more textural change from using just whites . If you love pancakes , I would make them with any pancake recipe you like , and enhance your protein intake from other food items . Personally , I love a scrambled egg , and they go great with pancakes . Edit : I see in your profile that you are in France . Since we also call French style crepes the same thing in English , I am thinking you probably do mean US style pancakes , so the above would apply . If you are thinking of crepes , they tend to be a touch eggier than pancakes to start with , which helps give them the structure to role or fold easily while still being so thin . I imagine that they could take a bit more egg still , with some change in texture and more egg flavor , but might start to stick to the pan more , as egg really likes to stick . At the extreme end , you would essentially have thin fried scrambled egg , which you can roll up with fillings , as some other cuisines do . Still , I am not an expert on crepes ; I have never made them myself . If that is what you are asking about , hopefully someone else can give you a more knowledgable answer .
Most turkeys sold in the United States for Thanksgiving are frozen . It simply is not feasible for meat processors to process the huge spike in turkeys for the holiday and provide everyone a fresh turkey . Expect to pay a premium for a fresh turkey over a frozen one . If you buy a frozen turkey , from a quality standpoint it does not matter whether you buy a turkey a month out from Thanksgiving ( now ) or wait to buy the turkey later . You will basically get the same product .
There are four methods for thawing frozen foods which are recognized as safe : In a refrigerator In the microwave Under cool running water As part of the cooking process These four methods all meet the criteria that they minimize the amount of time the food spends in the danger zone ( 40-140 F , 4-60 C ) where bacteria can grow . The pros and cons of the following often-recommended methods are also reviewed : Leaving food on the counter overnight Thawing in a bowl ( or sink ) of water On a metal pan or with a " miracle thaw " device In the refrigerator Thawing food in the refrigerator is slow ; it can take a day to thaw several pounds ( a kilogram or two ) , and even more time for larger foods like a whole frozen turkey . The advantage is that the refrigerator is at a safe temperature , and bacterial growth is already inhibited , so there is little risk . This is probably the preferred method for many foods , if you have the time . In the microwave Thawing in the microwave is fast , but it has several disadvantages : It requires a lot of attention , turning or rotating the food to get even coverage from the microwaves ; for items like ground beef , you might even need to scrape off the thawed portions and continue defrosting the frozen portion . It is easy to accidently go to far and start cooking the food , especially if it has an odd shape or small pointier parts sticking out ( like wings on a chicken ) . For this reason , microwave thawing is best done only for foods like soup or stew , where you can stir them and if one part boils a small amount while another part is frozen , no harm is done . Under cool running water This one is most surprising , but it is true : the fastest way to thaw food safely is under cool running water ( at or below 70 F / 21 C ) , like the cold water from your tap . The reason is that that water has an extremely high capacity for carrying heat , and the forced convection from running water ensures that it transfers heat from the food item as rapidly as possible . In the Good Eats episode <URL> , Alton Brown thawed several frozen ice duck sculptures by various methods . The one under cool running water was almost completely melted , even when the one in the oven at 200 F was still fairly recognizably bird shaped . It is important that the water be running , to ensure strong convection . You can do this by setting the food in the sink under a very small stream of water . If the food should not get wet , you can put it in a zip-type bag or similar to keep it dry . Try to remove as much air as possible , to get the best contact between the water and the food ( through the bag ) . This is the best method for forced , rapid thawing ( at least when microwaving is not appropriate or inconvenient ) , but it is probably less convenient that the refrigerator method . You also have to monitor the food , and remove it when it is thawed , or it will come to the ambient temperature of the water , which is probably in the danger zone . As part of the cooking process Some foods can be cooked starting from the frozen state , thawing and then cooking in one operation . Among the ones most suitable for this are are smaller or thinner items , such as : Cookie dough lumps Hamburgers Chicken parts Pizza Stew meat Frozen , chopped vegetables Frozen stock ( at least in smaller quantities ) Bad idea : on the Counter overnight This is a bad idea , especially for meats and other highly perishable items . You have no control over the temperature the surface of the food will reach , and it may begin to spoil at the surface before the center is thawed . Bad idea : In a bowl ( or sink ) of cold water Again , a bad idea . Without the convection , the thawing speed is reduced . There is also no source of newer , cooler water , so the temperature of the water itself will rise . Some parts of the food may reach dangerous temperatures before it is fully thawed . Also , if you do n't check the food frequently , the temperature can get into dangerous territories , facilitating spoilage . Risky : On a cast iron , stainless steel or other metal pan , or a " miracle thaw " device This method is most often used with thin foods like steaks or frozen hamburgers . Physics are with you , as the specific heat capacity and conductivity of the metal are very high ( higher even than water ) . The large surface area of the metal acts like a radiator or heat sink in reverse , conducting heat away from the food more rapidly than air alone would . This method is not approved by health codes for commercial use , and carries some risks . You need to monitor the food closely , and cook it or move it into the refrigerator as soon as it is thawed . Failure to do so will allow the food to spoil , and the conductivity of your metal will become your enemy , more quickly bringing the food to ambient temperature . While this method is not officially sanctioned , you may choose to assess its risks for yourself . See also : <URL> <URL>
I agree on the Goodwill thing , but it pains me to think of putting tape on a knife blade -- someone 's going to have to clean it off , and that risks someone getting injured . Instead , find a piece of cardboard that 's longer than the blade of the knife , and more than twice the depth of the blade with an inch ( ~ 3 cm ) or more to spare . Fold the cardboard in half , so it 's now roughly larger than the size of the blade , and then place the blade so the back of the knife is against the fold ( you can do it the other way , but you 'll risk dulling the knife ... cutting paper is n't good for knives ) , then tape it down . You want to make sure it 's well compressed , so the knife is being held in by friction . You could always sandwich something rubbery in there with it to help with the friction . ( this is how I used to transport my knives when moving between apartments ) ... Another alternative , if you 're really disposing of it , and do n't mind dulling the blade , is to poke it into a piece of corrougated cardboard . Just find a piece that 's longer and wider than the blade , set it on the edge of your counter , put a hand on top to hold it steady , and then slowly push the blade in .
If you want more gravy you need to add more liquids and natural flavours . Better if you have bone but ... no bone : Before you roast your beef sear it , so it has good colour when it comes out , deglaze the pan/baking tray with water/red wine/white wine or Madeira one of me faves and put that to one side . ( in the gravy stock pot ) Add onions , carrots and parsnips in with the beef , and touch of water , olive oil and salt . Do n't go mad with the water you 're not poaching the beef !! Just enough to stop the veg burning - 5mm in the bottom ( top up if needed ) . When the beef is ready ( 55C internal temp = medium rare <URL> ) take it out of the tray , put the root veg to one side and and add the remains to your gravy stock pot . Sear the bottom of the roast with a little oil ( it 'll be a bit soggy from sitting in the veg ) then put it aside to rest ( 5-10 mins if you 're in a hurry 15-30 for 3kg will come out lush ! ) deglaze again adding the resulting jus to your stock pot , which now had a wealth of flavour . Use that stock pot to create a beast of a gravy ! Make it in the usual manner , if you keep the onions in they 'll make it thicker and tastier - a stick blender with give you a smoother texture if that 's what you like !
end question
start question
What is a poolish starter ?
Poolish is a type of <URL> . You prepare it before mixing your dough . As in 16 hours before . Then , you mix it with the rest of the ingredients . What I usually do is mix 150g of flour and 150g of water with a pinch of yeast ( less than 1g ) and no salt at all the night before the day I 'm going to use it . The idea is to use the same amount , in weight , of flour and water , and the least amount possible of yeast and let it work as slow as possible . This will depend on many factors . I 'm giving you my quantities , but it changes from winter to summer , you will have to experiment . That 's half of the fun . For the mixing I use a fork and a 1 litter/quarter container and 30 seconds of work , it should n't take you more . The poolish usually gets almost to the top in 14-18 hours . Once I put 5g of yeast and got to the top in 1 hour . This is not bad but defies the purpose of the poolish taking a lot of time . Some people even put in the refrigerator to make it take longer . Why would you want it to take time ? This is what I was told and makes sense to me : when you mix water , flour and yeast two things happen : the yeast transform the sugars and some good bacteria starts creating acids that will determine flavour . The yeast work depends on the temperature and amount of yeast ( among other things , like water , salt , fat , etc ) . The bacteria does n't . Also , the bacteria and the acids help preserve the bread . Once it has reached the top you have 1 hour approx to use it . If not , it will collapse and you better start with a new one . If you think you are not going to use it in 1 hour , use a fork to degass it before it collapses and let it rise again . It will rise faster this time , but that will buy you some time . You can <URL> If you have a recipe you like , try replacing 150g flour and 150g water with the poolish and see what happens . You may replace between 10 % and 50 % of the final dough . You 'll see changes in color and flavor .
Some answers to your questions , based on my experience with wild sourdough starter in San Francisco : 70-80F is the ideal temperature range . Below that the yeast incubates very slowly ; above it , the starter will tend to ferment alcoholically . Do not leave the starter in direct sun . UV light is a powerful sterilizing agent . An organic , cold-processed ( i.e. stone milled ) flour works best , because it will retain the maximum amount of its own wild yeast on it . Cheeseboard : Collective Works likes to start with rye flour and gradually add bread flour , but they do n't give a tested reason for this . I have never heard of using fruit juice in a sourdough starter . I would be dubious about it ; you 'd be likely to end up with vinegar . Sugar is unnecessary for sourdough starters . Use purified water ; chlorine/chloramine/ozone in tap water can kill your starter . Finally , starters incorporating milk are fridge-only starters ( as opposed to flour-and-water starters , which can be kept at room temperature if split frequently ) which depend on the bacteria and lactic acid from the fermenting milk for part of their sourness . They can be effective , and actually a good choice if you live somewhere with weak/poor wild yeast . Note that you can not transform a milk sourdough into a water sourdough , and using up 2 cups of milk every 2 weeks is more expensive than 2 cups of filtered water .
Moist salts are naturally harvested sea salts from which not all the water has been removed . They are noticeably wet , often caking up or forming more of a " slush " than a powder . Some aficionados only believe that sea salt is " real " and " natural " if it is moist . Me , I have enough humidity in the apartment .
The hint is in the name , sourdough . Per the <URL> : Properly prepared starters are safe because they become acidic due to the fermentation action of lactic acid-forming bacteria present in the mixture . These bacteria and the acid environment formed inhibit the growth of other bacteria , but do allow yeast , if added , to grow and help leaven bread products . Still , they point out care must be taken to get a good result . There have been food safety incidents related to home made starters , and using starters that can be stored in the refrigerator is recommended . Please see the linked article for more detail .
Visible cloudiness is a result of suspended particles of about 1 micrometer ( micron ) or larger in size . Technically , just about any juice could in theory be filtered to remove those particles . But there are a couple things going on here . First , any filtering , clarification , etc. does cause some modification of flavor . Flavor compounds can be much smaller than 1 micron , but how they 're perceived can be modified by larger particles that contribute to mouthfeel and by their relative concentrations . If you 're measuring against the raw food , any change subtly modifies how it tastes . A raw tomato tastes slightly different from tomato juice , which in turn tastes different than <URL> . This can have an especially strong impact on subtle flavors like vegetable juices . Second , 1 micron is pretty small . The average pore size for your <URL> is about 10-15 microns , meaning you have to go a full order of magnitude smaller in order to remove visible cloudiness . Besides physical filtration , there are other ways to do this like <URL> , but those may also remove things like suspended oils or specific flavor compounds . That might be okay if you mostly care about sweetness and you can add artificial flavors back later ( as with mass-produced juice blends ) but could be a problem if you 're going for a very " natural " flavor . In general , more filtering means more processing and more associated flavor change . Third , you 're right that there is a marketing aspect here . Consumers have grown used to certain types of juice being clear ( like apple juice ) and others being totally opaque ( like orange juice ) . A certain subset might also actually prefer clouded juices , seeing them as less processed ( which they generally are ) and therefore more " healthy " , regardless of whether that 's actually true . In short , you could filter just about any liquid clear through some means or another , but it will taste different , and will likely affect how much people will pay you for the result .
Once my starter was established ( started with organic whole wheat flour ) I 've been feeding it with unbleached AP flour ( King Arthur ) and that 's worked fine . I do this simply because it 's the flour I buy in large quantities to stock my pantry , and so it 's generally the cheapest flour I have on hand . If you want to " switch over " to a different flour you can always scoop out a bit of starter a couple days before you bake , and feed it with the different flour . Start with a small amount so you do n't have to throw any away ; just double the volume with each feeding . I do n't usually bother , though .
Clean your potatoes . Peel if desired . Slice in half , lengthways . Place flat sides down on your cutting board . Cut again in half , lengthways . This would be for very large wedges . For slightly smaller , cut in thirds , lengthways , on a 60 degree angle , from the outside of the potato to the centre line where it hits the cutting board . For even smaller , slice in half again after the second half cut .
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
I 'd presume they just mean dish soap and not some more powerful cleanser . With regard to additives , etc. . I guess whatever you are okay with normally should be okay . Obviously you have to rinse the trays thoroughly to get the soap off . I 've had a few dehydrators and there is nothing special about the plastic trays . I doubt they are dishwasher safe but I 've never put that to the test ( I suspect it would not work that well anyway ) . The trays can be pesky to clean if you 've used a marinade . The best thing I 've found for this is a small , soft circular brush .
Use only good beef , salt and pepper . The beef should be a good fatty cut , with a ratio of 80 % meat , 20 % fat . Chuck is ideal . Any good butcher should grind it to order for you . You need to keep the ground meat as cold as possible , to prevent the fat melting out of it before you cook it . Do not salt the beef prior to shaping , just use pepper . Shape your burgers , then put them in the fridge for a couple of hours . Generously salt the outside of the burgers about 1 hour before cooking . Get a good pan ( preferably a cast iron griddle ) really , really , really hot . Brush one side of the burger with vegetable oil , then slap it on the grill . DO NOT PRESS IT WITH THE SPATULA , EVER . You squeeze out all the juice . Turn the burger and cook the other side . Timing will depend on how you like your burger . A good way of testing doneness is to insert a thin metal skewer into the centre of the burger from one side ( not the top ) , leave it for a few seconds , then take it out and touch it carefully to your lip . If it 's hot , it 's just about done . Or if you have a good digital thermometer , use that .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
<URL> is a fantastic resource , and has probably <URL> out there at the moment . There 's also a lot of good stuff at the French Cullinary Institute 's <URL> . They 've got <URL> that 's quite enlightening . I actually disagree on the McGee recommendations . While it 's an excellent book , full of great info , I do n't think it 's a good starting point for molecular gastronomy ( in the sense of the cooking movement rather than the more literal sense )
It depends on the meat and how it 's cut . A ' solid ' uncut piece like a pork loin will take longer to marinade properly than if it was cut into thin strips for stir frying , for example - I 'd want to marinade the former at least 7-8 hours , while the latter could probably get away with 1 .
<URL> What is in a Hostess Set , Serving Set and an Entertainment Set ? A simple way to remember what pieces are in a Hostess Set is : The word Hostess starts with an " H " everything in a Hostess Set holds something . Hostess Set : Gravy Ladle , Tablespoon , Sugar Spoon Serving Set : Serving Fork , Butter Knife , Pierced Tablespoon Entertainment Set : Casserole Spoon , Dessert Server
There are two common categories of Japanese korokke , one made with potato or another starchy vegetable ( kabocha , a Japanese squash , is also common ) , and the other made with a roux , typically with corn and/or crab , called a cream korokke . In a vegetable-based one , which may have additions like ground beef , sesame seeds , certain pickled vegetables , or other seasonings , the basic texture is the same as any other vegetable puree or mash . The cream korokke should have a texture of a thick bechamel , but when hot , will be " almost " melted , and should come across as creamy . For the vegetable ones , the texture is trickier to master than it may appear . Mashed potatoes are deceptively simple ; mash at too high a temperature , and you may end up with a gluelike texture that is n't pleasant . Mash at too low a temperature , and you 'll end up with hard , dry chunks instead . There 's a magic temperature range , which if I remember right is around 160F , at which mashing produces a very nice texture . I may add salt and pepper while mashing , but usually not other ingredients . I prefer to use a potato ricer for this now , though I have done ok with a fork in the past . Once mashed , I 'll integrate the other fillings . If the texture of the potato mash seems too dry when you 've prepared it , you may consider adding an egg yolk to the puree , which I 've done on occasion . Too much may make the dough hard to form into balls , so be conservative about it . Although it does n't appear to be the specific case you 're concerned with , for the cream korokke , the ideal balance of the thickness of the bechamel is probably subject to some debate , but basically you want to balance the illusion of liquid creaminess with the ability to work the chilled bechamel into a shape that 's sturdy enough to bread and not prone to exploding in the fryer . For reference , there are also variations with boiled eggs in the middle , and there are some made from okara ( soy mash leftover from tofu making ) but that 's another story .
I 've found some good info <URL> . According to author Ann Kondo Corum , Mitsuko Kaneshiro first made spam musubi for her children , but then started selling them out of City Pharmacy on Pensacola Street in Mo'ili ' ili . By the early 1980s , she was selling 500 a day
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
Trying to get to the bottom of the issue , I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt . The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional ( the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt , so you are getting an accurate size comparison ) . The picture illustrates my suspicions , which is the difference is the surface area ( ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt ) . Standard table salt is a compact little cube , effective when it 's to be dissolved in a liquid , but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds . Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact , meaning , a lot of salt without much saltiness . Sea salt , with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue . Ground salt is more like shards of glass , so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty . Also with a much finer texture , you are left with many more particles in a wider area , meaning , a saltier taste with less salt . It 's a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all . When you are dissolving it in a liquid , it really makes little difference which type you use . When it comes down to it , it 's all about how picky you want to be with it .
Milk proteins , mostly . And some sugars that have been caramelized . This is an example of what one chef I know describes as " <URL> , " and is much like what happens when you sear a steak on the grill .
A traditional Manhattan is two shots of rye or bourbon , one shot of sweet vermouth , a dash of bitters and a cherry , shaken and strained into a martini glass . I prefer on the rocks in a rocks glass , myself . A perfect Manhattan is similar , but uses a half shot each of sweet and dry vermouth . They tend to be more interesting when paired with a higher quality whiskey . I 'm also a big fan of <URL> ( aka , high quality moonshine ) in Manhattans .
end question
start question
How to make chicken liver less explosive ?
You have a few options to lower their explosiveness : Pierce the skin , like you do <URL> . Lower your frying temperature can help a bit , but you 'll probably always need to use a temperature higher than the boiling point to get any kind of crisping action . Dehydrate the liver a bit before frying . You could use a dehydrator , a low-and-slow oven bake or a low temperature , low oil sauté to get them to release their juices ( like you do for browning some mushrooms ) . I do n't know which of these will work best for liver , but naturally you 'll lose a little bit of the final juiciness . You mention the splash guard , which I ca n't recommend enough . These numbers are cheap and easy to find . <URL> But you can also protect your hands directly . I recommend something articulated , like this pair of silicon mold Storm Trooper styled oven mitts from Think Geek : <URL> <URL>
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
There are many dishes where chicken and rice are cooked mixed together in the same pot . Look at Arroz con Pollo for example , it 's an easy classic and there are loads of recipes . There 's also some types of Biryani , Jambalaya , and other traditional recipes from across the world that would work . Chicken pieces and rice cook in about the same time as you say , if you want to get vegetables in there it 's a bit more complicated as you want the vegetables to be cooked , but not overcooked . I 've generally made them separately to put put as a side as it 's more attractive , however large carrot chunks cook about the same time , and you can put in pureed vegetables or even vegetable juice . One my mother makes uses crushed tomatoes instead of water to cook the rice in . As for having the chicken mixed in or on top there 's no right answer , I like to brown the chicken and lay it skin side up on top of the rice as the rice will cook up around the chicken and the visual effect is good when the pot is put on the table . Visuals aside there 's little difference in the method .
I think opening the oven door every 15-20 minutes is causing the oven to loose a lot of heat very frequently , therefore the process becomes even more prolonged . Try these steps : 1 ) Make minimum of 3 slits diagonally . 2 ) Cover the chickens with foil in the first 15-20 minutes of its cooking time to creat and retain steam inside the meat and then uncover and continue with your process . 3 ) Baste less frequently to maintain the oven heat .
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
Butter and milk will add fat and water which will definitely change the consistency of the dough . You will have to adjust the ratios if you add them ( surely more flour if you add milk ) . If you want sweet noodles my best bet would be to add sugar , although I would n't do sweet egg noodles ... maybe sweet rice noodles ? Why do n't you just do plain noodles and then make a sweet condiment instead ?
Wheat gluten . Buy some powdered wheat gluten at a health food store . Add it to the mix , add some water if necessary , and stir it around in the same direction for 30 to 50 strokes . The gluten will bond and start forming long chains , and bring the whole mixture together . Nothing else really works as well . Eggs and cheese will also help hold a veggie burger together , but only gluten really gives it cohesiveness and a springy texture . FWIW , I ca n't imagine that veggie burgers made from juicer pulp will be even remotely appetizing .
You have a few options to lower their explosiveness : Pierce the skin , like you do <URL> . Lower your frying temperature can help a bit , but you 'll probably always need to use a temperature higher than the boiling point to get any kind of crisping action . Dehydrate the liver a bit before frying . You could use a dehydrator , a low-and-slow oven bake or a low temperature , low oil sauté to get them to release their juices ( like you do for browning some mushrooms ) . I do n't know which of these will work best for liver , but naturally you 'll lose a little bit of the final juiciness . You mention the splash guard , which I ca n't recommend enough . These numbers are cheap and easy to find . <URL> But you can also protect your hands directly . I recommend something articulated , like this pair of silicon mold Storm Trooper styled oven mitts from Think Geek : <URL> <URL>
A crisp crepe is less about the recipe and more about the cooking technique . You simply need to leave it a little longer before flipping it , allowing the edges to crisp . A little more oil than usual will help , but it should still only be a thin coating wiped on with a paper towel . To make a thicker crepe , simply use less liquid . You can also look at using alternative flours like buckwheat which alter the texture .
You want to minimize gluten formation , like in making pastry . So , use a low-gluten ( pastry ) flour . That recipe uses cornstarch alongside flour , which makes sense . You also want to , as much as possible , minimize water and coat the starch granules with fat . So , you might try spinning the flour and fat in a food processor before mixing in the wet ingredients . Definitely use the brandy -- same idea as vodka in a pie crust which helps to prevent gluten formation !
It really depends on the texture you are looking for in your finished product . If you want a chunky chicken salad then bake your chicken breasts seasoned or not , I season mine , and then cube them . If you want something a little more exciting pan grill the breasts to the point of a little char and then dice . If you want your chicken to be flavorless and get all of your flavor from the mix you are tossing your chicken into , boil it or put it in a slow cooker if you are cooking up a big batch . It all really comes down to how you like to eat your chicken salad , and more importantly how pretty you want it to look in your serving method , because a cajun blackened chicken salad sandwich can look down right homely . I say try them all until you fall in love with one temporarily and when that has lost its passion try a different version . Also as a side note if I am preparing it for me and not for someone else , so it does n't have to be all white and pretty , I use thighs instead of breasts since they are more forgiving and generally cheaper . If I am not just breaking down a whole chicken and using the leftovers .
I assume you mean sherbet , which is made by mixing 1 cup of powdered sugar ( also called icing or confectioner 's sugar ) with 1 tsp of baking soda ( also called bicarbonate of soda ) and 1 tsp of powdered citric acid . Altering the proportion of soda ( alkali ) to citric acid makes it more or less fizzy .
None of the answers so far mention collagen -- specifically , using a stock made from roasted and cracked poultry bones . You do n't have to roast the bones , but you do need to crack them -- use a large , heavy knife or cleaver ( not a chinese vegetable cleaver , you 'll screw up the edge ) to chop the bones up into about 2 " to 3 " pieces ( 5 to 7cm ) . Put them in cold water , and slowly bring it up to a simmer , and just leave it simmering for a few hours . You can add vegetables , too , but you 'll want to pitch them , as they 'll have been overcooked by the time the simmering 's done . Then strain everything , and use that as the base of your soup . If your refrigerate stock that has enough collagen in it , it 'll set up like jello , and hold its own shape . Starches can work , but they 're not ideal for soup -- flour ( unless cooked as a roux ) leaves a raw flour taste and cloudy soup ; tapioca leaves little granules in there ; corn starch will break down if you cook it too long .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
If your chicken burns , the issue is likely not that you cooked it too long , but that you cooked it too hot . How long to cook it depends on the total amount of meat , the size of pieces that it is in ( anything from bite sizes pieces for a stir fry up to an entire chicken ) , and how you 're cooking it - oven , saute pan , braising ... Roasting in the oven or braising in a stew are generally the most ignorable techniques - if you overcook a roast it may dry out , but wo n't burn , and if you overcook a stew the meat ( especially chicken ) may dissolve into shreds but burning is less likely . Since undercooked chicken can be unsafe , you should choose cooking techniques that are sure to fully cook the chicken without burning it .
There are many " natural " or " clean label " ingredients that work as mold inhibitors . Most of them work by adding some acid and thereby creating a more inhospitable environment for mold . Some of the popular mold inhibitors ( at least is some U.S. bakeries ) are : cultured whey , vinegar , and raisin juice . I think vinegar and raisin juice are good options for home use . Vinegar Works by adding Acetic acid . The white vinegar you buy in the grocery store is typically 5 % acetic acid ( at least in the U.S. ) . To inhibit mold , the recommended amount is 0.5-2 .0 % of the flour weight of 5 % acetic acid vinegar . Add with your other liquids . Raisin Juice Concentrate Raisin juice concentrate has been shown to be effective at retarding mold and bacteria growth in bread . It works by adding Propionic acid and Tartaric acid . Further , it seems that a home baker should be able to purchase this in reasonable quantities and at a reasonable price . The recommended amount is 5-10 % of flour weight , by weight . Add with your other liquids . My personal experience is positive : I used to purchase a whole-wheat bread with raisin juice concentrate and it lasted forever . This study from the Journal of Food Science , <URL> , found very dramatic increase in shelf life . The mean mold-free shelf life of the bread containing 7.5 % water extract [ of raisins ] was 18.1 + / - 3.3 d at room temperature while the negative control was mold free for 9.4 + / - 2.4 d . The antifungal efficacy of the extracts in bread was equivalent to 0.24 % calcium propionate in 21 d of storage . Doubling the concentration of the extract did not improve the mold-retarding property in bread . The bread containing raisin paste , the percentage of which in dough was equivalent to 15 % raisin extract , exhibited a stronger antifungal activity than did the extracts in bread . Notes Both of these can inhibit yeast activity which you may need to compensate for by increasing yeast or proofing time . Sources : some personal experience , this really interesting article from Oklahoma State University , <URL> , and the study linked above .
Note that for maximum benefit I am answering the question regarding chicken stock first and at the end have included information on other stocks such as fish and brown chicken and veal stock . Properly made stock is made from bones only . If you cut up your own chickens then save the backs and wing tips in the freezer and use for stock . You might ask at your grocery store or butcher and be able to purchase backs from them if you want to make stock but do n't have enough . Chicken feet are rich in gelatin and can be added to the pot to help add body to the stock . Place chicken backs/wing tips in a large stockpot ( about a 3-4 gal . stockpot ) . Cover with cold water and place on stove . Bring to a gentle simmer for about 10 minutes . This is known as " blanching " the bones and is done to help dissolve the blood and other loose proteins from the soft bones . These proteins will form a gray scum on the surface . Once the scum has formed , drain off the water disarding it in the sink . The more clear a stock is the longer the shelflife as it 's the additional proteins making a stock cloudy that also cause it to spoil much more quickly . Return bones to the pot and cover again with cold water . Add a sachet ( cheesecloth pouch containing a couple of bay leaves , about a teaspoon of whole peppercorns , a handful of parsley stems , and 8-10 thyme branches or a teaspoon of dried thyme ) that 's been tied up with some string . Bring the pot to a very gentle simmer once again and allow to simmer for about 3 hours . After 3 hours add the mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) . Plan on 1-2 lbs . of mirepoix ( combined vegetables ) per 8 lbs . of bones . I also like to add leeks as they not only add flavor but are supposed to help in clarification of the stock . Continue to simmer the stock for 1-2 hours . ( If you 're not going to be around to add the vegetables at that time they can be added with the bones but need to be cut in large pieces to avoid cooking down and disintegrating . I would typically start chicken and veal stock at night before leaving the restaurant and allow it to simmer overnight until the next morning . ) Strain the stock through a fine mesh strainer or several layers of cheesecloth . Cool the stock in a metal container ( another pot ) in an ice bath until cool to the touch and then place in storage containers and refrigerate or freeze . Once the stock has chilled the fat will have formed a solid layer on top of the stock . Carefully remove and either discard or use for sauteeing ( such as duck or chicken fat ) . Additional Notes : The same process would be followed for white veal stock ( not frequently used ) If preparing a brown stock ( roasted chicken , veal , beef , lamb , duck ) : ** These stocks are made by first rinsing the bones and then roasting in the oven at about 400 F degrees until medium brown ( think iced tea color ) . Once bones are browned , smear them with a tablespoon or two of tomato paste and roast for another 5 minutes or so . Be careful as the concentrated sugars in the tomato paste can cause it to burn and create a bitter tasting stock . After bones and tomato paste have roasted , place them in the stock pot and add the mirepoix to the roasting pan , tossing to coat with the fat that has rendered out and roast the mirepoix until lightly browned . Add the mirepoix about 2 hours before finishing the stock . Be sure carrots are cut rather large to avoid having them disintegrate and adding a strange excessively sweet taste to the stock . Recommended cooking times for stocks : - Fish : 30-45 minutes . Use lean white fish bones and heads . Lobster/shrimp stock is made from the shells and will usually yield more flavor if first roasted . Remove gills and eyes from fish heads to prevent clouding the stock . Do not use carrots in mirepoix or it will color the stock an orange hue . Use onions , celery , leeks , mushrooms , and sliced lemon . - Chicken/Duck : 4-6 hours - Veal/Beef/Lamb : 8-12 hours ( knuckle bones of veal will have the greatest amount of gelatin since the bones have n't hardened as much as those of beef ) Stocks should not be seasoned with salt as one of the primary purposes is for them to be a " stock " item that can be used for a variety of needs : soups , sauces , rice , etc. . The salt is added to the final preparation not the stock . If stock is salted and then used for a reduction sauce the resulting sauce will be too salty .
When you refer to cooking Bulgur wheat , do you boil it in a pot of water ? Admittedly the only thing I have ever done with Bulgur wheat was Tabbouleh , where you just reconstitute the dry Bulgur wheat by pouring boiling water on it and letting it soak that way until it softens and fluffs up real nice &amp; golden with every grain separate from the others . I.e. not sticky or gluey . One time , on bad advice , I bought " cracked wheat " which is , I gather now from Wikipedia , not the same , even though some people think the two are identical . On that occasion , my " Bulgur " wheat did soften but was grayish in color and the individual grains stuck together kind of like oatmeal . Wikipedia says that Bulgur wheat has been parboiled already , so you would n't need to boil it a lot to cook it , but merely re-hydrate with just the right amount of boiling water . So ... if possibly you are using " cracked wheat " like I did , maybe this info can help with the stickiness problem .
If the meringues are coming out of the oven sticky , you might lower the temperature slightly and extend the drying time ( to avoid browning ) -- they should feel quite dry and very light coming out of the oven . Sugar is <URL> -- if the air is humid , any condensation -- even when you can not see it -- on the meringues will dissolve the sugar , and then they will start to feel sticky , and the downward spiral will begin . According to all my searching , it is best to make them on a low humidity day . Of course , where I live in the summer , we pretty much do n't get those . If you are having trouble with them in storage , you might try to buy some <URL> packets , and put them in the container . Most desiccant is not food safe , so it should not touch the meringue . Amazon has lots of options .
Indeed , Mr. Zable actually applied for a patent -- US application no . <URL> , filed Sept 13 , 2010 . ( Of course , just because he applied does n't mean the US Patent Office will issue a patent on it . ) His process is , in essence : ( 1 ) gelling a liquid beverage ; and ( 2 ) wraping an aliquot of the gel in a raw " farinaceous dough " , selected from the group of pretzel , pizza , bread , and pasta doughs . The application says he used gelatin as his gelling agent , but the patent ( if it issues ) would not be limited to gelatin . Once wrapped , the raw snack could be fried immediately or frozen for later use .
end question
start question
What type of bowl is best for a fruit salad ?
I do n't think the bowl has anything to do with it , unless it is some sort of reactive metal , but you do n't normally find food grade bowls made of a reactive metal ? To stop surface oxidation of non-acidic fruit ( apples , bananas etc. ) coat them with a suitable weak acid . See this previous answer <URL>
Clean it immediately , before anything has a chance to dry . As soon as I 'm done grating anything , I run the grater under water and wipe it with a sponge . Wipe with the direction of the blades , then run a little water inside it . Optional : put the grater in the dishwasher to clean fully .
For some teas , the strainer does matter . For a particular variety of green tea that I was considering importing years ago , the producer recommended a certain type of fine mesh strainer for best results , as apparently the leaves were just the right shape to clog up the " standard " Kyuusu-style mesh strainer . ( Kyuusu is a type of Japanese teapot with the handle on the side instead of opposite the spout ) . With black tea , I found that those glass teapot strainers with the little slits in them worked fine , but were a pain to clean . For Japanese green teas , though , they were a disaster , as tea leaves got stuck in them and the infusion never got very complete , and the water refused to drain in a reasonable amount of time . As a result , I refuse to buy another glass teapot with those little slits , because they were too unreliable for anything but large leaf black teas or certain " fruit teas " ( as they were called in Germany ) . Korean style one-person tea cups with large holes in the strainer component work reasonably well for green tea ( and are designed for green tea ) , but often require toothpicks or bamboo skewers to clean if tea gets stuck in the holes . My favorite teapots mostly use the Japanese-style steel mesh , though I have had good luck for certain teas with built-in clay strainer holes if they brew small quantities of tea .
Ok - finally got it open ! While googling , I came across a suggestion to cover the lid with a plastic glove and use that for traction . Not sure if it was the combination of running under hot water + the glove , or if the glove would 've worked on it 's own , but it 's open now :)
Tearing is NOT worth the extra effort , tested experimentally . Others have explored the theoretical reasons behind this , so I decided to test it in real life . I did this like so : Green leaf lettuce from the local CSA Cut one leaf with a sharp knife ( stainless ) , and tore the second leaf carefully by hand ( fast , clean tears ) Pieces were both wrapped in moist paper towels and left out at room temperature Photographs were taken at 30 minute intervals After 2 hours , the 2 leaves still look identical ( picture below ) . Cut ( on the left ) , Torn ( on the right ) : Provisos : knife was sharp and leaves were fresh and kept moist . A dull knife or more abusive handling of the leaves may yield bruising and faster browning . I am currently repeating this on a longer time scale , and may attempt with a dressing . Practical take-away from the experiment : I have found that in real life , it does n't matter how you divide your leaves , as long as you do n't apply dressing before storing for a prolonged period . The acidic dressing will wilt leaves and cause discoloration , and leading to a limp , soggy salad . The experiment supports that neither method leads to unacceptable browning within a short timeframe . In practice , I 've only seen browning when lettuce is left overnight or longer , or when it is stored with dressing . Cook 's Illustrated <URL> with their experiment to see if plastic lettuce knives are worth it . They found that : Though all lettuce began showing some browning on the ribs after 10 days , none showed any signs of browning on the cut or torn surfaces . After 12 days , the heads cut with metal knives showed faint signs of browning on these surfaces , and the lettuce cut with the plastic knife followed a day later . The torn lettuce was last to brown on its ruptured edges , starting to turn at 2 weeks . Given that lettuce is browning on the ribs before it does on cut edges , the difference between cut and torn is no longer important . You 're only adding 20 % to the time before browning appears on cut surfaces . Most people will agree that after 2 weeks lettuce no longer has its full flavor . I have found that to get the freshest , best taste it should be eaten no more than 4 days after harvest . So , if there difference between cut and torn is insignificant , why cut rather than tear ? It 's faster and more consistent , especially if you have good knife skills and a sharp knife . You can cut a head of romaine in under a minute by knife , versus several times this by hand . You also do n't have to worry about bruising leaves or making irregularly shaped pieces by accident , and you can choose to do large pieces or fine , fluffy shredded mixture . In my time in professional kitchens , I came to rely on the knife as an extension of my body , and you should too .
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
The classic technique for most spices is to roast them . This can be done in a dry pan because the spices cotain their own oils , you just need to make sure that they do n't burn . The spices are usually used in the dish from the start so that they have time to infuse , but it is not always the case , for instance there are many dishes which add <URL> spice mix towards the end of the cooking although the spices have again usually been roasted before they are used . Regarding grinding them , again it does vary . Some spices are added whole but will then have to be removed before eating , some spice mixes are ground so they are eaten with the dish . All spices as far as I am aware should be roasted whole though so you would usually roast them and then grind them to produce the spice mix .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
Lecithin is indeed a good emulsifier , available from egg whites or soy . Both egg whites and soy lecithin are available in powdered form and should be shelf-stable and usable with normal kitchen tools ( scales and measuring spoons ) . Another powdered option is gum arabic ( also called acacia gum ) , which comes from acacia resin . It 's used a lot in commercial food products and candies . These are all readily available online , but you may also find them in some grocery stores ( in the US , the Bob 's Mill brand offers a lot of things like this ) or restaurant supply stores ( but the quantities might be more than you want ) or you may find some gums among the spices at larger Indian markets , or certainly in a large spice market like Kalustyan 's in NYC . I know you asked for neutral , but I figured I 'd also mention that garlic can be used as an emulsifier but it is n't quite as stable ( it may separate some over time in the fridge ) and , of course , it is NOT neutral . But the flavor profile of garlic might fit in some recipes where mustard does n't . ( There is a <URL> that demonstrates this well -- it is pretty much just garlic , salt , lemon and oil , and whips up into something thick and creamy . )
I do n't think there is any " standard " type of vinegar worlwide . In recipes for French dishes , an unspecified vinegar can be assumed to be a red wine vinegar . Mien seems to have a different opinion , so I 'd say it 's pretty much a cultural issue .
Personally , I 've switched almost entirely to <URL> for all types of stirring and scraping spoons . They do n't stain , they are fine up to quite high temperatures , they clean up easily and can go in the dishwasher . They are also wo n't scratch the surface of non-stick cookware . It is true that they do n't feel quite so nice as a good wooden spoon , but the convenience is outstanding . ( On the other hand , I stick with metal for the type of spatula one uses to flip a fritter , because silicone ca n't have a thin enough leading edge , it is too flexible . )
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
One thing you also might want to consider when making pickles is the process of heating versus not . I recently learned that the crispy store bought pickles are pickled at low temps ( my preferred method ) , where as softer pickles were most likely heated first . Not sure which method you are using , but this may help as you move forward . My step-mother recently made some awesome pickles with chilies and dill and garlic but heated them first in the canning process and they turned out a bit too soft for my liking . Regarding salt ... I happen to agree with Adam 's comment on the brine . I usually confirm salt is dissolved before it goes into the pickling solution , so it 's not a problem . In that respect , a good quality salt , regardless of shape and size should be used ( feel free to grind it in a mortar with a pestle if you think it should be finer ) . I happen to use coarse Kosher from Morton for most things ...
They would be fresh hams , the hindquarter of a pig . The word ham , unmodified , implies a cured product . I would imagine that for a feral hog , if you are willing to risk eating it , that you should cook to the highest temperature reasonable , which in the case of a fresh ham might be at least 180 F , and as high as 200 F . The best application at these ranges would be making puiled pork , which requires long , low , and slow cooking ; smoking is definitely an option . See also <URL> , although for a pork butt , should be easily adaptable to the fresh ham , which is similar , although not quite as fatty and full of connective tissue , so it wo n't be quite as tender when done .
To answer in the language of the question asked : Medium holes with a cutting edge on bottom ( look like large raindrops ) : used for shredding . Small holes with cutting edge on bottom : used for shredding when you want it finer than the larger size . Outward protruding holes with spiky edges on all sides : used for grating . Wide holes that look like a smiley : used to slice things to an even thickness . As for recipes ... I generally do n't use the slicing portion too often , as I can get fairly consistent slices with a knife , but if you 're not so skilled , it could be used to slice potatoes for an au gratin ( might need to slice them in half first , is the slots are n't wide enough to fit the whole potato ) , or to slice firmer cheeses . It can also be used for slicing cabbage for coleslaw ( again , once cut down to fit ) , cucumbers or carrots for salads , etc. . As the blades are n't razor sharp , there are some softer items ( eg , tomatoes ) that it just wo n't work for , that you 'd have to do by hand or get a much more expensive mandoline . The grating side I only generally use for hard cheeses , when I need a more powdery texture than I can get with the shredding sides . I 've also used it for zesting citrus ( although it only works in large quantities , as you end up losing about 1/2 a lemon to the groves and it does n't release without a brush ** ) , and I 've used it for pulping carrots ( was mixing them into a sauce , and I did n't want identifiable bits ) The shredding sides are the ones I use the most , with the choice of side dependent upon what size I want the resultant shreds . I use it for firmer vegetables and fruits that I 'm baking into breads ( zucchini , carrots , apples ) , potatoes for hash browns , medium cheeses for firmer cheeses ( when I want this texture ) , etc. . Although a food processor can be used for this task , you have to consider a couple things ( besides initial cost &amp; space it takes up ) : it 's really easy to go and shred lots of cheddar cheese in a food processor , but it cramming all in there and fusing back together from the force and heat , defeating the purpose . Chilling the cheese helps , but you also need to keep dumping the work bowl out . If you have a strong arm and a small food processor , a hand shredder might actually be faster and give better results . When using a shredding disk for firmer things , you do more damage than by hand , resulting in lots of liquid being given off . Sometimes , this is better ... I have a potato kugel recipe that comes out very light as I can get more of the liquid out after having gone through the food processor ... so you may want to try both tools ( if you already own them both ) to see which one gives you better results . ** ... I 've heard you can wrap it in plastic wrap , use the grater , and then pull the wrap off to get it to release ; I 've never tried it , in part because I now have a microplane grater , but also because I 'd be afraid of getting bits of plastic in the food . I also want to say that I saw the trick the context of pulping ginger or garlic , but it 's been long enough ago that I do n't know that I can trust my memory
I 'd seriously doubt it going bad in 5 days if your fridge is set to a proper temperature and it was prepared with some semblance of proper sanitation . A vat of the stuff taken out of the fridge for serving 4 times , yes . An individual serving stored in the fridge the whole time , I doubt . The pasta texture will get weird from freezing/thawing . Should not actually affect the flavor if it 's properly sealed . You may or may not find the texture change acceptable . Your wife may or may not agree with you . As usual , experimentation will be your best guide as to whether you find it acceptable or not , so freeze one and do n't freeze one and compare the two when you eat them .
Yes , it makes it less flavorful . That does n't necessarily mean it 's a bad idea . Often it 'll still be plenty flavorful even with a decent amount of ice in it . So by using ice , you save the trouble of having to freeze some ingredients first , and do n't go through your fruit quite as fast . You can avoid having to keep fruit juice on hand . It also lets you pretty easily control exactly how cold/icy you want the smoothie . If you live in a hot area , smoothies with a decent amount of ice are actually pretty nice - they stay cold much longer , and the icy graininess can make them more refreshing . I 'm sure plenty of people would never dream of using ice and some people do all the time ; feel free to go on doing whichever suits you ! ( I 'm originally from Texas , and honestly , in addition to blending some ice in , I used to put whole ice cubes in after blending just to make extra sure it stayed cold . ) For a helpful comparison : a lot of really good sorbet recipes use a decent amount of water . For example , David Lebovitz 's mango sorbet ( from The Perfect Scoop ) uses two large mangoes and 2/3 cup of water . Sure , it could use some kind of fruit juice instead , but I promise , it really really tastes like mango , and does n't taste watered down at all .
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
end question
start question
Tips for Removing Silk from Corn ?
If you 're cooking it on the cob , remove the silk after you 've cooked it . I typically microwave my corn in the inner husk , when you pull it out the silk just slides right off .
Popcorn kernels pop because moisture is trapped inside of a relatively gas-tight shell . As the kernels are heated , the water inside the kernel turns to steam . The shell of the kernel keeps the steam from expanding , so pressure builds up inside of the kernel until the whole things blows open . If the kernel does n't have enough moisture inside of it or if the shell of the kernel is permeable enough to allow the pressure inside the kernel to dissipate before it reaches the critical pop pressure , then that kernel wo n't pop . Ever . So to answer your question , no . Take the popcorn off the heat before the popped kernels burn .
If you 're cooking it on the cob , remove the silk after you 've cooked it . I typically microwave my corn in the inner husk , when you pull it out the silk just slides right off .
One strong possibility is that the recipe is overleavened , which will cause it to blow up fast and then collapse . <URL> recommends 1 teaspoon baking powder or 1/4 teaspoon baking soda per cup of flour as a guideline . If your recipe is much beyond that , suspect that is the issue .
Pozole is traditionally made with nixtamalized corn , also known as nixtamal or hominy . So yes , of course you can use hominy - that 's what you 're supposed to use ! Canned hominy/nixtamal is common . I believe that in some areas you can find dried whole nixtamal and possibly even fresh nixtamal - but I 'm not sure I ever saw that in Texas , so I 'm not sure how much luck you 'll have . As with everything , people say that fresher is better ; I ca n't personally support that , though , not having managed to find it where I live . I have , however , made some pozole that I found to be quite good using canned hominy . Since you 're planning on pozole rojo , you 'll have a lot of other flavor , which I expect would make the difference between canned and fresh less noticeable . I suppose if you want to try to nixtamalize your own corn for the sake of having the optimal pozole , you could , and you would have time . I 've never tried it myself . From what I 've read , cooking/soaking times vary depending on what you 're going to do with the nixtamal . For pozole , you do n't have to cook and soak the corn as long since it 's going to be further cooked in the stew . I 've seen varying instructions online . For example , <URL> says to cook for 15 minutes , soak for another 5-10 , while <URL> says to cook for 40-50 minutes . After that you rinse it thoroughly to remove the lime and hulls ( softened by the lime ) , before cooking it in your pozole . I imagine either of those cooking times would produce something satisfactory ; with it of course being more tender with the longer time . Note also that the corn wo n't get that nice puffed shape if you do n't remove the tip cap ( one of those pages calls it a pedicel - not sure that 's the right term ) . So with a lot of effort and adventurousness , you could indeed make your own nixtamal ( hominy ) , and it might well be better , but you can also make something extremely good with already-made hominy and not take a risk on something I suspect you 're feeding to others .
Generally , there is no reason not to use it . However , I 'm hard pressed to think of a good place , generally because good cooking prefers other , stronger flavored liquids instead of water . An application where you can have the flavor on its own would be making ayran or a lassi . I think it would be an improvement over plain-water-ayran . For other uses , just substitute plain water to get a slight nutty hint . I like to pair rice with nuts , so you could use it instead of pure water to cook rice . Or add it to a pot of stock you are making - with a complex stock of a meat and several vegetables , it will be too subtle a taste to register consciously , but will enrich the flavor as a whole . For a simpler stock ( e.g. just chicken with classic mirepoix ) the taste of almonds can get too strong , depending on the quantity you use .
Simply put , you have to stir them the first three/four minutes of cooking . Be sure to boil them in enough water ( at least 1 liter per 100 grams ) . In addition to that be sure to buy some good quality pasta . From my knowledge pasta tends to stick when the wheat used is of poor quality . A good pasta should not be transparent when seen in direct sunlight , but it should be of a nice pale yellow color and opaque . Good Italian pasta brands that you can find outside of Italy are De Cecco ( which I fear might be quite expensive , and probably not so easy to find ) , or Barilla ( easier to find ) . Both of them has cooking instructions printed on the package . You might want to cook them for 2-3 minutes less than what 's printed , then eventually cook them the remaining couple of minutes together with your sauce .
With any game I automatically think about avoiding overcooking as it is quite lean , however any sausage may have fat added to it to prevent it drying out , so a simple look at your sausage should tell you how much fat it has . If it is really dark with very little white in it then there 's little fat and you need to make sure you do n't overcook them , if there 's a good proportion of fat then cook them as you would normally . The best reference I have for cooking game is out of an app called <URL> which says : The trouble with game is that you do n't know where it 's been . Modern animal husbandry has eliminated many common foodborne illnesses and makes raised meat very safe but wild meat may have some diseases . For this reason some recommend that game be cooked to a minimum of 160F ( 71C ) which is where all foodborne illnesses are wiped out , however with most game this will make it dry and unpalatable . You as the cook must balance safety and flavor/tenderness . When eating be sure to be on the lookout for metal shot or bullets . To me there 's no point in buying game if you plan to cook it until it 's dry , so I aim to cook it to medium at 145F/63C at the most . It 's hard to gauge with sausages , so with low-fat game sausages I 'd brown them off and get them out pretty quick . As long as they 're firm you should be ok .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
I just reviewed the Nielsen Massey website and under their FAQ 's they suggest that vanilla powder be used for " liquid sensitive products " . The powdered nature of the vanilla would allow you to add it to melted chocolate without causing the melted chocolate to seize up . While vanilla has a unique and characteristic flavor of its own , it also helps to heighten and intensify other flavors , chocolate being one of them . When chocolate seizes the emulsion of cocoa butter and cocoa powder has been interrupted by the introduction of a small amount of moisture . You either need to keep all liquids out of melted chocolate or add in a significant amount . So ... it only prevents it from seizing if you were going to be adding vanilla in extract form but no other liquids . It would not be something you add as a preventative measure . Prevent the seizing through proper procedures in the first place : Do not allow water in the water bath to touch bottom of the bowl that you 're melting chocolate in . The steam produced by the water is what 's doing the melting so as long as wafts of steam are rising from the surface it 's hot enough . The water does n't even need to be simmering - cocoa butter starts to melt around 83-85 degrees F. Make sure all utensils are dry so water droplets are n't introduced Make sure the bowl you 're using is large enough for the edges to flare out beyond the edge of the pot . If the edges just meet the edge of the pot then steam will condense on the edge and get into the chocolate causing it to seize .
I ca n't back this up with any evidence , but I think the reason it does n't work well is that at the temperature required to caramelize sugar , the other " impurities " in brown sugar will be burned and gross . You might be able to get a similar effect by making regular white-sugar caramel and then mixing in molasses after it has begun to cool .
With seared Tuna the point is to create a charred crust while leaving the inside mostly raw . It 's very similar to cooking a steak rare in that the secret is a very hot pan and a short amount of time . So get your pan as hot as you can , coat the cooking surfaces of the tuna steaks with a bit of oil with a high smoke point ( corn , canola , peanut - not olive oil or walnut oil ) , then fry the tuna for as little time as you can get away with . I 'd think 45-60 seconds per side . In case you are wondering the oil forms a good heat contact with the tuna , improving conductivity , it 's not for any flavor effect . Now you may have a stove that does n't get the pan hot enough in which case it takes too long to form a crust and the inside cooks more than you like , in which case you can try : Not letting the tuna thaw completely . If it 's still a teensy bit frozen in the middle the heat from the cooking will thaw it , not cook it . You could also try it straight out of the fridge Use a cooking torch . You can also use a plumbing torch , it 's the same thing except much cheaper
The biggest thing you can do is peel it . If a cucumber 's bitter , it 's much more in the peel than in the flesh . It 's also usually more bitter at the stem end , so you might want to start from the other end , and possibly ultimately discard an inch from the stem end if it really is too bitter for you . Unless you 're unusually sensitive to the bitterness , that ought to cover it . Bitterness is also fairly variable from cucumber to cucumber , so it 's possible that you could shop for less bitter ones - maybe a different variety - or buy them only during more favorable seasons .
Blanching briefly does an excellent job of neutralizing bitterness , or more precisely , astringency , even if the blanched spinach is recooked . Basically , boil water , add washed spinach until submerged ( 5-30 seconds depending on preference ; chard could go up to a minute or so depending on the target texture desired ) . Drain quickly . Submerge drained spinach in a bowl of ice and water to rapidly chill . Press spinach to remove excess water . Recooking , even in applications like quiche , will do a very nice job of retaining the bright green color and generally astringency , if present at all , is minimal . If I am not recooking in some way , I often just dress simply in something like fresh ginger and soy sauce or a ground sesame , mirin and salt based sauce without reheating .
I wok on an electric stove and have found there 's a few tips to really help - its not perfect , but it helps : Preheat , preheat , preheat . Before you start any of your prep , put your wok on the stove and crank the heat . Let it heat up before you do anything at all to it . Make sure everything is at least at room temperature . We often use frozen stir fry veggies , but we thaw them out first and they 're at least at room temp before they go in . The same goes for meat . For sauces , we 'll often microwave it so that its a bit warm before it even goes in . If you have a screaming hot wok , and you add cold food - then for a long time it will only steam the food . Do it in batches . Do n't crowd your wok until everything is already hot . If you 're doing meat and veggies - do the meat first , take it off , let the pan reheat , and then do some of the veggies . Work in batches so that the pan temperature does n't drop and give it time to reheat between batches . Assemble it all at the end .
Yes , toasted corn works great as a soup topper , especially for " American " soups , like chili , tortilla soup , or cream-of-tomato . The difficulty is that , as you surmised , the corn needs to be first cooked and then dried and toasted in the oven . Also , small corn kernels do n't work very well since they become almost microscopic when toasted and dried . Here 's how I 've done it : Bought dried " giant corn " , or hominy of some variety from a Mexican market . Soaked corn overnight in cold water , then boiled it for 20 minutes . Drained corn and then roasted it on a cookie sheet at 200F for an hour or so . This is a lot of effort , and for that reason I never did it again even though it turned out well . My easier effort suggestions would be : Start with canned hominy ( have not tried this to see if it toasts well ) Find a natural foods store which will sell you unsalted " corn nuts " in bulk , then toast them briefly in the oven .
The source of the fat can make a difference in taste , texture , color , clarity , and fat composition . ( And that 's not just the part of the cow , but also the breed of cow , how old it was , its diet , etc. ) The kidney fat , for example , is a particular area used from cows that produces a particular kind of desirable fat , but it 's not necessary for making tallow in general . As for odor , it 's hard to say . Rendering animal fats in general often tends to produce pretty smelly odors . That 's pretty normal . You 'll have to see whether the flavor is acceptable to you . ( I 'd mainly be worried about odors from the fat before you started cooking it ; in that case , it might be a sign the fat was old or even spoiled . But odors during and after cooking can happen : a lot of smelly molecules are fat-soluble , so they may be released when it is cooked . )
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
I think grilling is probably a bad plan for duck legs ; the fat content is a real danger like you said , and duck legs are tough enough you probably want to confit them or braise them . If you absolutely have to grill them , I would suggest confiting them at 200 degrees for three or four hours first ( you could use veggie oil in a pinch ) and then resting them in the fridge for a day or so in oil . As for finishing them on the grill , rinse them off gently , re-season if needed , cook flesh side down on a medium heat portion of the grill for a while until mostly heated through , then flip them over on a high heat portion of the grill to crisp up the skin , watching out for flares .
Corn ( Maize ) is <URL> , and not any of the other things you mention . Even the farmers and agricultural agencies consider it a grain - it 's one of the " official grains of Canada " and regulated by the <URL> . I 'm not sure when or why it started being called a vegetable , but as far as the culinary definition goes , it has far too much sugar and starch to fall properly into that category . The typical culinary definition of a vegetable is savory , not sweet . Botanically , the kernels can be considered a type of fruit called a <URL> ( AKA a grain ) , although it 's not normally eaten as fruit ( for one thing , it 's normally cooked ) . It may accompany vegetables reasonably well , just like rice or many other grains . But it is a grain .
end question
start question
Mashing bananas for Muffins : By hand or with blender ?
It sounds like your bananas might not be ripe enough . If they 're really ripe , you can mash with a fork and with very little effort turn them into a nice smooth goopy mush . There should n't be any pieces left to sink . You want to wait until they 're so ripe you would n't want to eat them - blackening skin , very very soft .
Googling , I found <URL> , presenting a chemical and technical analysis of curcumin . Skimming through it , it seems that degradation of the substance should not be a problem due to temperature , although the report does n't say much about it except that it should n't be a problem : Curcumin is stable in dry food . It is relatively stable to heat so it can be used in thermally treated foods . However , it warns about using it in solutions of a high pH , without stating which of the degradation products may be unfortunate to ingest . Furthermore curcumin is sensitive to light , so if you want as little as possible of it to degrade it is probably a good idea to keep a lid on the pan while you 're heating the solution and consume it fairly quickly afterwards : In native form curcumin is not suitable as a colouring agent in aqueous solutions of pH > 7 The principal colouring components of curcumin are not particularly stable to light , especially in solutions . After the photo-irradiation of compound 1 , a cyclisation product was detected , as well as decomposition products , such as vanillic acid , vanillin , and ferulic acid ( Sasaki et al , 1998 ) . Commercial formulations of curcumin are available that are designed to minimize the inherent light instability . With regards to the pH of your solution I do n't think that should be a problem , as it is probably fairly acidic from juices of the lemon .
Absolutely not . A honing steel is significantly harder than the blade of a knife and is specially textured for honing . Rubbing two knives together is more likely to dull or knick the blades than anything else . The blade of a knife should never touch anything harder than a wooden cutting board . Not glass , not granite , and certainly not steel ( except for honing/sharpening ) .
Unless the recipe specifies " heaping " , read spoon measurements as level . That goes for cup measurements as well . Unless the recipe specifies another method to fill your measuring spoon or cup , use yet another implement to fill the spoon or cup , then level it by scraping with a knife . That is the most precisely repeatable way to measure ( especially flour ) with a cup or spoon . The one exception to the " spooned and leveled " technique is in the measurement of brown sugar . Recipes will usually call for brown sugar to be " packed " , which is just as at sounds . Press the brown sugar into the spoon or cup to squeeze in as much as you can and still have a level top . It 's far more accurate to measure by weight but most non-professional recipes in the US are written with volumetric measurements . For baking especially , consider converting volumetric measurements to weight using sources like this : <URL> , and measuring with an accurate digital scale . Depending upon the methods used in developing the recipe , measuring by weight the first time you make a recipe may not get you any closer to the measurements the author of the recipe intends , but at least your results will be accurately repeatable and tweakable .
I 've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking , and the outside for freezing . In other words , do you want to reflect the heat into the food , or away from the food ? However , common sense ( which fails very often ) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved , any benefit is marginal , if it exists at all . The only time it might matter , is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun . Then it might make a difference . EDIT : From The Straight Dope : The truth is that the shiny side is not treated with a dangerous chemical . Mineral oil is used as a lubricant during the rolling process , some trace of which may remain on the finished foil -- but it 's not dangerous . The shiny side is shiny because of the way foil is made . During the last pass through the rolling mill , a double thickness of foil is run between the rollers . The side of each sheet that comes in contact with the polished steel rollers comes out shiny . The other side has a matte finish . <URL> ALSO The official word from the Reynolds aluminum people is as follows : " It makes little difference which side of the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you use -- both sides do the same fine job of cooking , freezing , and storing food . There is a slight difference in the reflectivity of the two sides , but it is so slight that laboratory instruments are required to measure it . "
It really depends on what your goal is ; that is , what you are doing with the pasta . If you are making most authentic Italian pasta dishes , the slightly under cooked pasta is transferred to the pan in which the condiment was prepared . It is then tossed with some water from the pot that that the pasta was cooked in , along with some butter or olive oil ( depending on the region of the dish ) . This finishes the cooking , emulsifies the sauce , and mixes in the the condiment . The final dish is not about pasta or the condiment in isolation , but rather the combination . Just like a salad is not about the lettuce , per se , but the combination of lettuce and dressing . It is true that pasta will potentially absorb the sauce and get mushy if stored in fridge . This is less of a problem if sauced appropriately , but still , it is possible . First choice , prepare only enough pasta for the meal . Depending on the type of pasta , you are only looking at a maximum of 10 - 12 minutes of cooking and often less . So , it 's not really about convenience . If you find you have cooked more than you need , you could always chill and reserve non-sauced pasta , then reheat it in condiment at another time . But , in my opinion , this would be inferior to freshly cooked , and take almost as much time . If your goal is a cold pasta salad , by all means , cook , chill , then mix with dressing whenever you need it .
YES ! If food is quickly heated and kept above 140F/60C , microorganisms ca n't grow in the food . Professional kitchens use steam tables to keep food warm at this temperature throughout a day 's service . If the product is cooled quickly ( generally using an ice bath ) , then it can be used for more than one day . Another approach is often used for stocks and soups : heat them to 165F/75C daily or every two days , to kill microorganisms , then cool them quickly with an ice bath to under 40F/5C . This can be done 2-3 times to extend the fridge life of the product . The most important part of both approaches is to use a food thermometer to verify that food is fully heated/cooled , and Another trick to extend the fridge life of food is to immediately transfer it from a still-hot pot to a cool container , and then leave the top of the container open to allow steam to escape . This greatly reduces cooling time ; even in a refrigerator , a sealed container may take over an hour to cool down to a safe temperature .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
Can you get leached iron from cast iron ? Yes Is it consistent in the amount that you get ? No Is it dependent on the food in the pan ? Yes How much ? <URL> . More liquid , acidic foods leach more . How long its in the pan also plays a role . 3 oz of spaghetti sauce could leach as much as 5mg - that 's almost 1/3 of the <URL> . So you can cook with cast iron to get more iron , but it will vary wildly on what you cook in it . It will also likely increase/decrease based on how well the pan is or is n't seasoned .
Escallion = scallion = green onion . I think it 's possible to substitute regular onions in some situations , but there are a lot of variables . First off , scallions have a sharper , more grassy flavor than onions , though they 're not as strong . Then there 's the question of which kind of onion you want to substitute . White onions have some of that same sharp flavor , and are quite strong . Yellow onions are much milder and sweeter , and might not be such a close flavor match . Red onions are somewhere in between , in my experience . I would probably try white onion , but in much smaller quantity than called for of scallions . It 's also important to consider how the scallions are being used . If they 're being cooked into the recipe , that 's very different than if they 're being added right at the end , or even as a garnish . I think the substitution is less of an issue if the scallions are to be cooked . If they 're to be more or less raw , I 'd suggest white onion , not too much of it , and sliced very very thinly , as a raw white onion is really strong . Whatever you try , bear in mind that it wo n't be exactly the same . But that certainly does n't mean it 'll be bad -- just different .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
Most small bakeries use small rotary mixers ( like a Kenwood that stands as high as a man ) that handle batches up to about 100lb - using a dough hook for bread . The really big bakeries use trough mixers with blades that turn along the length of the trough . A typical batch is around 600lb .
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
There are dozens if not hundreds of kinds of cheese in the world . Several kinds of non-shelf-stable cheese do not contain any added salt , just the natural salt content of the milk . Quark is a prominent example , paneer can also be made without salt . Of course paneer will reflect the taste of the acid that was used , for example lemon juice - it is up to you whether you consider it to be a seasoning or not . Cheeses that have a ripening time need salt for conservation purposes , so they are all salted . If you want to taste a low-salt cheese of this type , try Emmentaler - the traditional ones go as low as 0.5 % salt , and I am not even sure if this is added or not , so maybe it does n't even fall under your definition of " seasoned " . In addition , there are cheeses which also contain seasoning specifically meant to change their taste , for example wild garlic cheese or pepper cheese . These are added to the curds before pressing . Other types of cheese , like some cream cheeses or American cheeses , have seasoning added in an additional processing step . The seasoning in this step is highly varied , and can include not only the traditional herbs but also things like fungi or bacon pieces . And quarks are frequently seasoned with fruit at this step . So , there is a huge variety , and you can have seasoned or unseasoned cheese as you prefer .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
Yes , you can , as long as it 's a decent quality blade grinder . It 's how I fill my moka pot , which I 've been using 5 days a week for the last 4 years . You ca n't do actual espresso in a blade grinder ( it 's not possible to get the grind consistent and fine enough ) . But moka pots are a lot more flexible in the grind of coffee that they will accept . Just grind it almost as fine as you can -- this takes about 30-40 seconds of grinding in mine -- and put it in the basket .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
end question
start question
What 's the name of this slow cooking technique ?
This would be what I would call stewing . From the <URL> : " A dish cooked by stewing , especially a mixture of meat or fish and vegetables with stock . " I suppose you could also coin your own , new term call " modified-reduction-stewing . " Oh , wait , that 's mine ! Make up your own ; -- )
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
Poor honing on a blade that was already in true can reduce the sharpness , as you have discovered . This happens if your angle is off , and you knock the edge of the microscopic burrs or teeth over , presenting a duller cutting surface . It is likely that proper honing will correct this , although it may never be quite as perfect as the blade fresh from the whetstone or factory . In any case , you will not do any permanent harm to your blade with a honing steel ( short of using it as a bludgeon ) , because absolute worst case , you can always have your knife resharpened , or do it yourself . This may be somewhat inconvenient or costly , but is much less expensive than replacing a blade .
It is certainly a fermentation . A simple chemical neutralization would n't need that much time , and would n't produce lasting fizz . You can be certain that there are wild yeasts everywhere : in the air in your kitchen , on your elderflower , probably on your utensils , etc. . It is impossible to say which ones prevailed in the fermentation , the ones you brought in with the elderflower or the ones which came into it from some other sources .
In the UK , single cream is a milk product with at least 18 % butterfat . Double cream has 48 % butterfat . Neither are common in the US . If you can find clotted cream , which is 55 % fat , then there is a chance of making double cream at home by diluting it . As some clotted creams have a cooked taste , there may be other solutions .
It depends on what type of lettuce it is -- part of the issue is that if the lettuce is touching plastic , it will rot quicker , so I wrap it in paper towels , then bag it ( but not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . For whole heads of lettuce ( iceburg , butter , red leaf , etc ) , I just wrap the whole thing in dry paper towels , then shove it back into the bag from the grocery store or farmer 's market . I then pull off leaves as I need it , and re-wrap it . It stores for well over a week this way . For mescalin mixes , arugula , or other individual leaves , I 'll wash them , dry them , then unroll enough paper towels to spread the leaves on , then roll up the whole thing , and bag the roll ( again , not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . I can probably get a week out of it this way . ( all times assume you 're not buying from a store where it 's been sitting on the shelf too long before you buy it ; I get my lettuce when I can from the local farmer 's market ) So , to answer the specific questions : keep the bag open ; you do n't want moisture to condense inside the bag , as it 'll make the lettuce rot faster . I get better storage time with heads of letuce keeping them whole . If you 're going to be eating it all within 2-3 days , it probably does n't matter , and for loose lettuce , I find it more convenient to wash it as I re-pack it anyway . You never want to store lettuce wet ... you might be able to store it completely submerged , but damp will lead to it rotting faster .
I 've done it in the husk , when it 's fresh ( ie , the husk is n't dried out ) , but I do n't like the grassy flavors that the husk imparts . My neighbor 's clued me into a box of dry wax paper sheets to cover food for the microwave ( so I can be lazy and not have to clean the microwave as often ) , so I wrap the corn in it after it 's been husked and the silk removed . I just roll in around the corn , twist the ends like the paper wrapping on taffy , then microwave it for a few seconds . I have n't done it recently , so I ca n't remember exact times ( and the wattage of microwaves differ , anyway ) ... you just want to warm it through , though . If you were going to try to get it hot , I 'd consider dropping to medium power for a much longer time , so you do n't overly cook the outside , as I vaguely recall having an incident once .
Yes , it is called a toque . I do n't have a copy of CIA Pro Chef handy at the moment , but it was in the first chapter IIRC . Wikipedia and a casual googling will confirm this .
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
You can heat clarified butter to a higher temperature for two reasons -- you remove the milk solids , which can burn , and you remove the water , which will boil at 100 ° C and cause spattering . In baking , clarified butter 's lack of water means that it ca n't develop gluten as you would with simple melted butter . It 's actually more similar to other oils than it is to melted butter when baking . In the case of ghee , my understanding is that because it 's from a warm country , part of the reason for making it was as a preservative , as the ghee would have a longer shelf-life ( months ) than standard butter in the local climate .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
Cook 's Thesaurus recommends <URL> . As I do n't tend to make fish stock , I 'd probably either use shrimp stock ( take the shells and heads , simmer in water for about an hour ) , or crab stock ( just use the shells , and maybe the smaller legs if you did n't extract the meat from them ) If you can find it , some stores will carry ' seafood bullion ' or ' shrimp bullion ' . As they tend to be salty , I 'd probably only use them at half strength , like the recommendation for substituting chicken stock . In a real pinch , you might be able to use water + fish sauce , but I have no idea what the proportions would be . ( I 'd probably compare sodium levels , and try to match that . So 1400mg/TB vs. 120-280mg / 2oz ... so averages 800mg/cup , so about 1.5 tsp fish sauce + water to replace a cup of clam juice ) .
The term " dog " has been used as a synonym for sausage since 1884 and accusations that sausage makers used dog meat to at least 1845 . According to a myth , the use of the complete phrase " hot dog " in reference to sausage was coined by a newspaper cartoonist in 1900 , but there were several earlier references , but no specifics on the origination of the phrase .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
It 's very difficult . The trapped moisture can keep the meatloaf from drying out sufficiently to brown well . ... but if you vent the steam , you 're also releasing a lot of the heat , so it might cool off too much . I 'd personally try turning up the heat to high and leaving the lid askew for the last 15 minutes or so of cooking , and see if that gives you the desired effect . You may also want to remove some of the liquid ( but not all , as it 'll help to regulate the heat and prevent the bottom from getting too far overcooked ) I suspect that the laws regarding ' food styling ' as it applies to recipes in magazines are n't as vigorous as for advertising a product they want to sell you in stores or a restaurant . ( where they have to use only the same techniques and ingredients as what 's being advertised ... although if it 's for cereal , they do n't have to use milk ... and if it 's pie , that does n't have to be real ice cream , etc. ) . If you just want it ' brown ' , then a spray of soy-sauce will do it . If you want it actually ' browned ' ( ie , with an actual crust ) , you can take a propane torch to it . ( although I 'd do it out of the crock pot -- ceramics do n't take well to high heat from one side only )
The party line from <URL> is to : Cut out the stems , wash , and blanche for about 2 minutes Dry Store in freezer bags with as little air as possible They indicate you will get about a year of storage from this method . That being said , the method you propose is well known for herbs , and kale is certainly much heartier than an herb . It should work very well , given that the application is a smoothie and you do n't mind having the kale pureed already . It should keep the kale usable for a year or so as well . So the main issue with the traditional method is , are you willing to blanche your kale ? I know not everyone is . If you use kale for other dishes and have to blend your daily smoothie anyway , you might use the standard method , and store it in daily sized batches , thus giving you the ability to use it for either a smoothie or some other dish .
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
I think you 've answered your own question . It adds an elusive flavor that most people feel enhances the creamy flavors .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
end question
start question
How can I tell if the food inside a pressure cooker is done cooking ?
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
who determines that an item should be classified as this You do . There is no official list of delicacies . No authority on deciding what food is tasty . If , to you , lavender chocolate is a delicacy , then you can say so . Others will say that it is n't , that it tastes like soap and , and they ca n't bring themselves to eat it . Saying " I like bacon " is just a personal statement about your preferences . Saying " Bacon is a delicacy " is a personal statement which carries a bit more information , namely that you find bacon tasty , but also consider it a luxury food item , as opposed to an everyday food ( although this second semantic distinction is somewhat lost nowadays ) . As tastes tend to be shared within a culture , you will probably find that the people around you tend to agree somewhat on what is a delicacy , although it 's not a complete overlap . This can appear as if there a universal agreement on what is a delicacy . And I do n't doubt that somebody , somewhere has compiled something they call a list of delicacies , the same way that a movie fan will compile a list of " really funny comedies " . Both have equally little validity - what is funny to that person will not always be funny to you , even though there will be a correlation if you grew up in the same culture .
It 's very difficult . The trapped moisture can keep the meatloaf from drying out sufficiently to brown well . ... but if you vent the steam , you 're also releasing a lot of the heat , so it might cool off too much . I 'd personally try turning up the heat to high and leaving the lid askew for the last 15 minutes or so of cooking , and see if that gives you the desired effect . You may also want to remove some of the liquid ( but not all , as it 'll help to regulate the heat and prevent the bottom from getting too far overcooked ) I suspect that the laws regarding ' food styling ' as it applies to recipes in magazines are n't as vigorous as for advertising a product they want to sell you in stores or a restaurant . ( where they have to use only the same techniques and ingredients as what 's being advertised ... although if it 's for cereal , they do n't have to use milk ... and if it 's pie , that does n't have to be real ice cream , etc. ) . If you just want it ' brown ' , then a spray of soy-sauce will do it . If you want it actually ' browned ' ( ie , with an actual crust ) , you can take a propane torch to it . ( although I 'd do it out of the crock pot -- ceramics do n't take well to high heat from one side only )
How to see if your pasta is " al dente " : If your pasta cooks about in 10 minutes ( for example ) , when you put pasta into the boiling water take one pasta after 8 minute ( about 20 % before the time of cook ) , bite it and observe the pasta : the external is more yellow than the internal that is white . When the internal white disappears the pasta has cooked " normale " , when the internal white is small the pasta is " al dente " . Greetings from Italy Everybody know cooking , not everybody speak english very well
I have worked in two professsional kitchens . The main kitchen itself ( all the work tables , stoves , floors , refrigerator fronts and so on ) is cleaned after each service , and very thoroughly each night with hot soapy water and sometime sterilizing solution . The insides of refrigerators and other storage areas do n't need to be cleaned that often because everything in them is in sealed containers . They should normally be emptied and wiped out at least once a week , and of course immediately if there is any kind of spill .
Enzymes which degrade proteins , called proteases , are found in many fruits . There is no simple test for it other than holding some in your mouth and seeing if it " eats " your flesh away after a few minutes Commercial test are not practical or portable as they require maceration , heating , centrifuging and using florescent dye markers . Or just make some in gelatine and see what happens :-) A quick list would be : Fig - Ficin Ginger - zingipain Kiwi fruit - Actinidin Papaya ( Pawpaw ) - Papain Pineapple - Bromelain Also to a lesser extent Banana Guava Mango It is in many other fruits , but at levels where they will not be a problem , of course at different levels depending on the specific fruit variety etc. .
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
Buying local honey is one way to be sure that what you are getting is " honey " . I 've never heard of people passing off something else as honey . Is n't that why we have the fda ? If you are buying it in the store , check the lable ... my honey has one ingredient ; honey .
As a rule of thumb for a whole fish , and not a fillet - the gills should be bright red the skin/scales should be bright and shiny like metal this fish should n't really smell of anything except ' watery ' the flesh should rebound quickly when pressed the eyes should be bright and clear really fresh fish is also quite slimey to touch if it 's straight out of the water . I remember being quite surprised at this from my first fishing trip a few years back .
Food processors are wonderful kitchen tools , but they have only existed for a relatively short while . The techniques used prior to their invention still work , but are much more labor intensive . Use a <URL> . Use a mortar and pestle . The results can then be forced through a sieve of <URL> if desired to get a smoother result . You have not mentioned in your recipe whether the beans are cooked . I am guessing that they are from the other ingredients they were to be processed with . If so , the food mill should work very well . If they are not , and you are essentially making a bean flour , the mortar and pestle would be more appropriate , although a lot of work .
What you need for the conversion of collagen is a certain amount of energy . It is a complicated process - the melting point is around 70 ° C for the type of collagen contained in beef , but the melting does not happen instantly once the meat reaches 70 ° C . In a pressure cooking , you can apply the same amount of energy in a shorter amount of time . This is not bad , as opposed to slow roasting of collagen-poor meat . In collagen-poor meat , you have two types of protein , which are soft and wet . Under heat , they curdle , becoming tough and dry . The perfect meat is when the first type has curdled ( so the meat is not raw ) but the second has n't , so it still holds juices inside . If you curdle both , your meat gets tough and you ca n't take it apart with your teeth . In collagen-rich meat , you curdle both proteins - the collagen itself is tough and you want to melt it , but this happens long after the meat has curdled . But because the muscle fibers are not clinging to each other , but separated by collagen , you still get tasty meat . For that , you melt the collagen into gelatin , and serve the meat warm , so that the dry fibers are separated by the smooth , juicy melted gelatin . Unlike slow-roasted meat , you do n't have to tear the juiceless fibers apart , and the gelatin makes up for the missing meat juices which were expelled from the cells during curdling . So , in slow-roasted meat you do n't want to cross the temperature limit for curdling a certain protein , this is why you have to apply heat slowly until the center of the meat has cooked , without the outside getting overcooked . In collagen-rich meat , there is no upper limit at which the meat gets non-tasty , so you can push the energy needed for the collagen-to-gelatin conversion quickly into your meat . The pressure cooker can do this better than the normal boiling process .
There are two common categories of Japanese korokke , one made with potato or another starchy vegetable ( kabocha , a Japanese squash , is also common ) , and the other made with a roux , typically with corn and/or crab , called a cream korokke . In a vegetable-based one , which may have additions like ground beef , sesame seeds , certain pickled vegetables , or other seasonings , the basic texture is the same as any other vegetable puree or mash . The cream korokke should have a texture of a thick bechamel , but when hot , will be " almost " melted , and should come across as creamy . For the vegetable ones , the texture is trickier to master than it may appear . Mashed potatoes are deceptively simple ; mash at too high a temperature , and you may end up with a gluelike texture that is n't pleasant . Mash at too low a temperature , and you 'll end up with hard , dry chunks instead . There 's a magic temperature range , which if I remember right is around 160F , at which mashing produces a very nice texture . I may add salt and pepper while mashing , but usually not other ingredients . I prefer to use a potato ricer for this now , though I have done ok with a fork in the past . Once mashed , I 'll integrate the other fillings . If the texture of the potato mash seems too dry when you 've prepared it , you may consider adding an egg yolk to the puree , which I 've done on occasion . Too much may make the dough hard to form into balls , so be conservative about it . Although it does n't appear to be the specific case you 're concerned with , for the cream korokke , the ideal balance of the thickness of the bechamel is probably subject to some debate , but basically you want to balance the illusion of liquid creaminess with the ability to work the chilled bechamel into a shape that 's sturdy enough to bread and not prone to exploding in the fryer . For reference , there are also variations with boiled eggs in the middle , and there are some made from okara ( soy mash leftover from tofu making ) but that 's another story .
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
When they say " probiotic " , what they mean is that there are microbe cultures present in the kombucha . It 's really nothing more than a sweetened tea which has been <URL> . The odor and distinctive flavor is the result of a low alcohol content and acetic acid ( the same acid found in vinegar ) produced by the fermentation process . While these cultures do tend to edge out other bacteria that would spoil the drink and potentially cause illness , it can eventually go bad like anything else . More to the point , because the cultures are still alive , they 'll continue the fermentation process as long as they can , especially once you open the container and start introducing oxygen . This can throw off the balance of the culture , but it can also just make the kombucha unpleasantly acidic . Once it gets to that point , it might still be effective from a probiotic stance , but the acid could have an adverse effect on your digestion . If you keep it sealed and refrigerated , it 'll last a couple weeks , but a week or so is probably the effective maximum when you 're opening the container frequently . You 'll want to stick to purchasing an amount that you can drink within a week or so , but do n't worry overmuch if it has a slightly vinegary tang and odor .
Cantaloupe should feel heavier than it looks and smell musky and sweet . Also you should be able to press your thumb in slightly on the bottom and there should n't be a lip around the stem . If it smells over-sweet it 's most likely over ripe . You can let a cantaloupe ripen on your counter top if you get one under-ripe
Probably not . Cans are generally marked at point of filling , not at point of manufacturing The plastic liner looks plastic ' y in all cases , it 's very hard to tell . Epoxy is harder than other plastics , but there are epoxies that are BPA free anyway Aluminium cans are more likely have a epoxy liner that will give off a trace of BPA Many steel cans do not use epoxy or other BPA plastics Having said that the tested BPA release from a can is 100 's of times lower than the recommended maximum daily dose . So in theory there is nothing to really worry about The common sense answer is , if epoxy dissolved into the cans contents they would n't use it would they . The whole reason it 's there is to stop the contents ' eating ' the can
General food safety guidelines give you four hours of time between 40F and 140F ; more than that , and unsavory bacteria exceed nominally safe limits . So , there 's your safety limit . Total time counts , that is , in a bag back from the grocer for 2 hours , then in the fridge and back down to 34F and then out for 1 hour on the counter = 1 hour left until it needs to go over 140 for ten minutes ( or 165 for 1 minute ) or into your mouth . And of course , there 's the amount of time it was left on the dock , etc. etc. . That said , if you left fish in the fridge for a week , it would be mushy and bad tasting raw -- so you also must use your tastebuds and nose to see if you want to eat it raw ; food safety is n't the only concern .
The only way to test for capsaicin besides tasting is chemical testing , namely liquid chromatography . Problem is , the same kind of chili can be quite different in heat , even on the same bush it can be quite different from my experience . No idea why , though . Here is one tip on how to check the heat of a chili without actually eating part of it , but still cutting it apart : Cut through the chili below the stem , touch the membranes , touch your tongues , feel the heat . <URL> You can adjust the amount of heat a chili adds to the dish by removing the white membranes . Just add the colored flesh , check for heat , and add membranes until the desired spiciness is obtained . Capsaicin is only produced in the white mebranes in the center . It may move inside the fruit , though . Areas closer to the membranes will be hotter ( like , the seeds ) , than other parts .
No <URL> : " There are no outward characteristics that all poisonous mushrooms have in common , so picking and eating wild mushrooms requires the utmost caution . To be absolutely safe , the only mushrooms you should eat are those found at supermarkets and restaurants ! All the old wives ' tales about how to tell if a mushroom is poisonous -- such as whether it tarnishes silverware or turns blue when bruised -- are dead wrong . There 's a saying that there 's no such thing as an old , bold mushroom hunter . "
end question
start question
What is the source of smoky flavor for barbecued foods ?
The smoky flavour of barbecued foods is best achieved through burning lump charcoal or hardwood . In the scenario you 're describing , yes , burning hardwood and then cooking over the coals would give you a smoky flavour Store bought briquettes actually probably give you less of a smoky flavour because instead of using wood , many briquettes use other materials/binders that do n't give you the smoky flavour you want .
The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 ° C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
There is a possible case that the butter is n't old . McGee writes that butter made from unpasteurized cream should be eaten within 10 days , else its unique aroma is lost . Maybe the addition of salt and/or other preservatives stretch that to over 20 days , or the manufacturer is being optimistic . On the other hand , even if the butter is old , there is no need for concern . Butter does n't catch germs or molds . It can go rancid , but this is a chemical change , which happens slowly . The affected parts are visible , and after removing them , there is no problem with the remaining butter - this is no invisible penetration as with mold . The butter must get really old ( maybe > 6 months ) to get small pockets of rancidity on the inside which are too much trouble to remove . And even if they are n't removed properly , eating small amounts of rancid butter is n't a health concern ( although the taste is ruined ) . Butter also does n't undergo signinficant changes when it ages - it is n't like eggs , which are good to eat for weeks , but behave differently when fresh . So eating old butter is n't worse than eating fresh butter ( with the exception of the raw-cream butter mentioned above ) . For these reasons , I would n't worry about the butter . Unless it was sold as raw cream butter , it is probably old stock . But it is still good to eat , and will be good to eat well past its stamped date . If it should develop an oxidized layer on the outside , just cutting it away will be good enough .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
Pickled ginger is the proper palate cleanser to use with sushi , which helps keep flavors from mixing when you 're trying several different kinds of rolls . So at least with sushi there 's a specific palate cleanser , and I imagine there are others for other types of food .
There are actually quite a few differences between the different types of flour . The number of different types you store will really depend on your particular requirements . All purpose ( or plain ) flour is a blend of different types of wheat and has a relatively low protein content . Bread flour is typically made from a single , high protein wheat . It also has a higher gluten strength . It may also contain ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) Cake flour is also typically made from a single type of wheat ( different from the wheat used in bread flour ) and has a high starch content , it also has the lowest protein content . There are many other types of flour , all of which server specific purposes , for example ; Self raising flour , Whole wheat flour , Chick pea flour , Rice flour , Semolina flour And others . Essentially it 's important to use the right type of flour for a give recipe .
From a food safety perspective , the most important thing is that you get your leftovers cooled as quickly as possible , so that they do n't spend too long in the <URL> . This can be tricky , because you essentially have to move from cooking temperatures to refrigerated temperatures within two hours ( generally less because the time is cumulative , and includes time that the ingredients spent in the danger zone before you cooked them ) . Here 's what I do at home : Separate into smaller portions . For me , this usually means individual servings , but you can package 2-3 servings together ; the point is to avoid having a single large mass of food . I do this for a couple of reasons . First , it makes reheating convenient ; rather than heating up more portions than you 're going to be eating , or scooping out a single portion for separate reheating ( dirtying some extra dishware in the process ) you can simply grab as many portions as desired and go . Second , by separating the portions you are increasing their surface area , and therefore how quickly they will cool ( another reason I like individual servings is that it maximizes this effect ) . This is a basic trick from my restaurant days ; experienced professional cooks will know that to cool a large batch of soup safely , you need to either get the whole thing into an ice bath , or break it down into smaller portions . ( A thrifty tip here : you can use dedicated plastic or Pyrex food storage containers , but commercial containers are cheap and effective as well . There are all kinds of <URL> and <URL> containers intended for food service that are microwave-safe and which can be safely cleaned in the dishwasher . You 'll often have to buy them in bulk , but per piece they 're very inexpensive , they tend to stack very well , and if you 're lucky you can find a decent local takeaway or delivery place that uses them instead of styrofoam . Save whatever you get , wash them , and reuse . It 's possible to ruin these with excessive heat , but they 're so cheap that it 's not too much of a loss . ) Allow to cool on the counter , uncovered , for 10-20 minutes . The goal here is simply to let steam escape ; water carries a lot of thermal energy with it ( which is why you can easily burn yourself over a pot of boiling water ) and letting it get away will cool your food rapidly . The portions do n't need to cool completely at this point ; if they 're warm but no longer actively steaming , that 's fine . Put the portions in the refrigerator . As @Jefromi notes in comments , <URL> , and a lower external temperature will help your portions cool quickly and safely . Where possible , it 's ideal to leave these uncovered and spread out into a single layer so that they will cool quickly . Quite honestly , this is n't always practical , so if you need to cover and stack the portions due to space constraints , cool them a little longer on the counter before putting them into the fridge . Freeze the portions if you 'll be storing them for more than a couple of days . <URL> ; if you need to keep them beyond that , the freezer is your friend . This does n't work well for everything , but hearty foods like pastas will often freeze reasonably well . Reheat thoroughly in the microwave . For all that serious cooks might discount the microwave , it 's a very effective and efficient reheating device . ( Especially if you follow my advice about using microwave-safe plastic containers ; if you use something like Pyrex that 's oven-safe , you could certainly use that too . ) Make sure you heat everything so that it 's evenly hot ; this may mean stirring a couple of times . Overall , it 's most definitely possible to safely store leftovers , so long as you cool them quickly and reheat them thoroughly . Not only that , but I heartily endorse the practice . Leftovers can be practical , tasty , and a serious time saver . There 's no reason to be paranoid about them if you embrace a few simple rules .
There are several major factors that affect the texture of ice cream or gelato in the absence of stabilizers or gums : Air mixed in during the churning essentially creates a foam , which is softer than a solid product would be . While this air may be only 10 % by volume , it makes a huge difference in texture . The churning and rapid freezing also minimizes the size of ice crystals , so the non-air phase is essentially a syrup of sugary water with emulsified milk fat , with very small ice crystals suspended in it . Since it is not solid , it is easier to cut . The serving temperature for gelato I believe is traditionally warmer than the serving temperature of ice cream , which provides a softer texture ( more syrup , less ice ) allows the flavors to be perceived more easily as they are more aromatic at warmer temperatures . The gelato may contain ingredients with alcohol , such as Franglico in a hazelnut gelato ; this contributes a small anti-freeze effect . Similarly , the pectins from some fruit ingredients will also naturally interfere with ice crystal formation -- but these influences are specific to a given recipe . The lower milkfat percentage makes the flavors in the gelato more apparent , since they are not drowned out by the richness of the diary .
Chocolate is an odd substance when it comes to melting and hardening . When chocolate hardens , its melting point will end up being just a few degrees higher than the hardening temperature . When chocolate crystallizes at high temperatures , it forms a strong , dense crystalline structure that , texture-wise , is quite brittle . Most bought chocolate ( baker 's chocolate and chips ) is already tempered , but when you melt it , you break down that crystalline structure , and if you harden it at room temperature then it ends up forming very weak crystals that will melt in your hand . If you use a special coating chocolate ( couverture or the lower-quality compound chocolate ) then you do n't need to worry so much about tempering ( although it 's still a good idea ) , but if you use ordinary chocolate and do n't temper it then your coating will end up being messy and wet and rub off on your hands while you eat it . It might even melt while stored . Tempering is the key to making a room-temperature-stable chocolate coating . If you do n't do this , you 'll need to keep your pastries refrigerated until they 're ready to consume .
What you are looking for is called wholemeal flour . Here 's a quick US to UK baking translation guide . US on the left , UK on the right : All-purpose flour = plain flour bread flour = strong flour ( both have extra gluten ) whole wheat flour = wholemeal flour 1 stick of butter is 113g ( get a scale , trust me ) 1 large egg = 1 medium egg
There is no single ideal . More sugar and butter will mean a more crunchy crumble top ( and one that browns or burns more quickly ) , more flour will make it more sandy - they each have their place . The juicier the fruit , the sandier I like the topping to absorb some of the juice . The longer the fruit needs to cook , the more resilient to cooking the topping needs to be . And of course for a tart fruit like rhubarb , you might like more sugar in the topping to balance it - or you might just add sugar to the fruit and leave the topping alone . My goto mix is 1 cup flour , 1 cup sugar , 1/2 cup butter . But play with it a bit and vary it according to the fruit you are using - and I do n't just mean " rhubarb " or " apples " but taste a bit of today 's fruit to see how sweet it is , how soft it is , etc. .
Searing on a grill to " seal in juices " has largely been disproven . Meat loses juice at roughly the same speed regardless of searing the meat first . Searing does produce the Maillard reaction and caramelization which enhances flavor ; however , searing first does n't produce better results . A test performed by Alton Brown in 2008 demonstrated that searing at the end of the cooking process loses less water than searing at the beginning . For more information see <URL> . For the Alton Brown results see <URL> ( video ) .
<URL> has a list of Umami-rich foods along with natural concentrations of glutamate . I 've copied some of their list below ( included some meats for comparison ) in case the link disappears ( concentration number is mg glutamate/100g food ) . There 's also some information at the above link about how to prepare the foods to maximize the umami taste . Food/Concentration : Beef/107 Tuna/188 Nori/1378 ( not a typo ) Tomatoes/246 ( the riper the better ) Fresh Shiitake Mushrooms/71 Dried Shiitake Mushrooms/150 Enoki Mushrooms/22 Soy Beans/66 Potatoes/102 Sweet Potatoes/60 Chinese Cabbage/100 Carrots/33
There is no single universal answer to this question , as it depends on the specific food and outcome desired , but there are a couple of common themes that influence whether starting from cold water or boiling water is the preferred method : Larger foods that need to cook through may overcook on the outside before the inside is cooked , if started in boiling water . For example , potatoes are usually started in cold water so that they cook through to the center . Some foods contain enzymes that will be deactivated at boiling questions , but may act more quickly at lower temperatures . Starting in boiling water would be for when it is desirable that the reactions be inhibited ; starting in cold water facilitates the reactions continuing . Sometimes it is simply for precision to get a repeatable recipe . Boiling water is always the same temperature ( at least for a given altitude ) , so beginning cooking at the boil is reliable and repeatable compared to starting with cold water which may have an unknown temperature curve as it comes up to the boil .
Purpose of Seasoning protect bare cast iron from rust make the pan surface non-stick How often to season the pan ? You 'll need to season it more when it 's new . Use it frequently and you 'll need to season it less often . Do n't cook beans or tomatoes in it at first ; if you do so later , you may want to re-season it . Regarding adding butter , you 're right : that would be for taste , not necessity . If seasoned properly , a cast iron pan is non-stick .
Since most are pre-cooked ( in US Supermarkets anyway ) , and you are just re-heating , your ( still tasty ) options are pretty limited with respect to beer brats From the perspective of UW Madison ( self-proclaimed " Brat Capital of the World " ) : Simmer in beer first , then grill . <URL> ; this method would definitely be the preferred method for upping the intake of moisture without losing it during grilling ( so long as you do n't lose the brat flavor by wasting the beer you boiled them in ) For an <URL> : I have found that if you cook the brats on the grill first , then put them into the beer they do n't shrink as much . Here 's how I do it : I brown the brats lightly on both sides , then I place them in ' warm ' beer for a few minutes . Repeat several times until brats are cooked thoroughly . Now you can put the brats into ' hot ' beer to hold for individual serving ... When I said brown the brats lightly , I meant about 20 seconds per side on hot coals then into a 180 degree beer bath . Any hotter and they will shrink . I continue alternating the grill and beer bath until they are fully cooked . It 's a lot of work but my brats weigh almost as much cooked as when they went on the grill . Another thing you might try is adding chopped onion to your beer bath . " In a non-tailgate , just getting them cooked in a hurry setting : For grilling , I put them whole on the rack , otherwise you will lose moisture . Adding beer ( while grilling ) wo n't really do anything but cool them and the charcoal down ; but you could make a <URL> For stovetop , I barely cover the brats in beer ( typically watery domestic like Miller High Life ) in a pot/pan that can accomodate the quantity of brats being cooked and heat until beer reduces like a glaze . Wait until casing browns up a bit , then enjoy . In this instance I fork them a few times to absorb beer . For microwave , same as stove basically , fork and nuke covered with beer . As for type of beer , I think watery domestic does it best for the boiling since the carbonation is high and the sugars glaze up nicely before the brat is over-done . For the beer mustard pale ales are recommended by some , but I like brown , spicy mustard and might try something sweeter like a porter and banging heads with some punch from horseradish .
I 'm going to step out on a limb here and declare that you 'll need to add more of the other ingredients . Even then , you 're likely to throw off the overall balance of flavors because they have not all cooked together . Here 's a <URL> that suggests there are about 6 compounds that primarily contribute to the flavor and aroma of celery . However , as a home cook , I have no idea what any of these are or how to suppress them specifically . It may be possible to do so , but that solution is likely to be impractical for the home chef . Another problem is that celery has a very flavor-enhancing effect ; this is why it shows up so often in traditional vegetable bases like <URL> and <URL> . Here 's another <URL> summarizing a paper that identified the specific compounds responsible for this ; the odd thing is that these " phthalides " are largely tasteless . In short : the balance and overall tastiness of your soup might have been reached specifically by adding so much celery . I think you 're going to have to chalk this one up as a learning experience and adjust your recipe next time . One thing you could try ( if you 're not already , which would surprise me a little ) is <URL> the celery . I find that this makes the flavor overall a bit milder , with less of the vegetal-bitter flavors while still getting the umami-enhancing effect .
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
end question
start question
Why can food be left out to cool ( 140F to 40F in < 6h ) but not to defrost ?
Cooked foods are starting with a very low bacterial count , because the cooking process killed everything . Defrosting foods are starting from an unknown count , because they picked up some during the cooling process before they were frozen . Bacteria multiplies exponentially , so the starting point matters greatly . I 'm glad you asked for theories because I do n't have anything to back this up .
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
I suppose that depends on what you 're defrosting it for . The microwave ( on low power ) is safe and quick . The downside is that you 're using a microwave , which means there 's a good chance you 'll actually cook the outside slightly in the process , and you 're killing enzymes that are normally part of the flavour . The lower the heat , the less the impact of this , but it 's still a problem . If I 'm preparing the meat for marinating , stir-fry , etc. , something with a powerful or thick sauce , then I would n't worry about it , but if it 's going onto a grill with just a little bit of seasoning , you might want to avoid this . Running it under warm water would seem to work , but I 've found that it takes forever to defrost this way ( the exterior will loosen up but the interior stays stubbornly frozen ) , and you 're soaking it in the process . This really is n't suitable if you need to pound or fold the meat or do anything complicated with it . I would use the microwave if desperate , but it 's really best to thaw the meat in the refrigerator or , if you 're in a bit of a hurry , the sink . It takes longer , but it 'll turn out much better than the microwave in terms of flavour and tenderness . P.S. . One other word of advice : If you 're making a dish that requires the chicken to be cut or sliced , it 's best not to defrost it all the way . It 's easier to cut when frozen , and will defrost very quickly once it 's in pieces . I 'm mainly talking about the breast here , this does n't work so well with meat stuck to bones . Update : I 'm noticing a lot of recent hubbub about the dangers of defrosting in the sink / on the countertop or using warm water and I wanted to clarify something . Please note that that the advice above applies to chicken that will be immediately cooked after defrosting and that the defrosting is done over a period shorter than 2 hours . Raw chicken must not be kept at any temperature above 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) for more than an hour or so . Do not defrost a chicken breast in the sink and then toss it back in the fridge . Definitely do n't try to defrost a whole bird this way - stick to the refrigerator or very cold running water . As long as you follow the above precautions and cook the chicken thoroughly ( up to an internal temperature of 165 ° F ) , you 're not in any serious danger of salmonella poisoning , even if the original piece of meat was contaminated - and most chicken sold today is contaminated , for the record . If the meat is going back in the refrigerator for marinating or you plan to delay cooking for any other reason , then you need to either thaw it very fast ( using the microwave ) or at a very low temperature ( using the refrigerator or cold running water ) .
I found this very informative article from the Crown Prince company , an anchovy canner and distributor . Apparently the reason for cold storage has to do with the preservation process and product quality : <URL> Anchovies are a " semi-preserved " product . This means that they are not sterilized by either cooking or pasteurization . Instead , anchovies are preserved by a salting process whereby salt is used to control bacteria which would otherwise render a canned product unusable . The anchovies remain in the salt until just before canning . Therefore , suppliers do not pack ahead of order . Our anchovies are not packed until just prior to shipment . Because they are " semi-preserved " , anchovies will eventually break down and become mushy . The cans may even puff . This occurs because there is a non-harmful bacteria that survives in salt . This bacteria can be inconvenient because when it grows it can eventually form a gas which will puff the can . We repeat that this is not harmful to humans , but is most inconvenient . Heat will hasten the growth of the non-harmful bacteria . Anchovies should always be stored in a cool place , preferably in the refrigerator . Their shelf life when refrigerated is about 18 months . If you do not plan on consuming the anchovies or paste immediately after purchasing , we recommend storing them in the refrigerator . It is important to note that puffed anchovy cans are not indicative of a faulty canning procedure , but rather of improper storage subsequent to canning . Occasionally , customers complain of a white substance in the can . Often , salt collects around the edges of the fish . This is harmless , as it is only salt .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
If you soak your beans in brine ( 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water , or 1.5 % salt by weight ) it 'll help soften the skins by replacing calcium and magnesium ions in the skin . After soaking for 8 -- 24 hours , drain and rinse . ( Source : <URL> , login required ) . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking also mentions this ( p. 488 -- 489 ) and suggests 1 % salt by weight . McGee also mentions that 0.5 % baking soda will further reduce cooking times ( but may lead to unpleasant taste &amp; mouth feel ) . Alternatively , <URL> that dried kombu can be used to similar effect , without needing the soak . Even after brining , taste them when nearly done cooking : you may need to add some salt -- it does n't always penetrate that far into the beans . At least , that 's been my experience . Quick summary : Create 1 -- 1.5 % salt ( by weight ) brine , approx 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water . Sort ( remove rocks , deformed and damaged beans , etc. ) and rinse dried beans . Drain rinse water . Soak rinsed beans in brine for 8 -- 24 hours . Beans will noticeably swell . Drain brine , rinse beans again . Cook beans normally . Towards the end of cooking , season to taste . You want to season towards the end of the cooking because it results in creamier texture and also eating some beans which have n't been heated to boiling for 10 minutes is ill-advised due to phytohaemagglutinin .
Cooked foods are starting with a very low bacterial count , because the cooking process killed everything . Defrosting foods are starting from an unknown count , because they picked up some during the cooling process before they were frozen . Bacteria multiplies exponentially , so the starting point matters greatly . I 'm glad you asked for theories because I do n't have anything to back this up .
Flouring the beef does two things : It facilitates the development of a crust on the outside of the meat that is brown and flavorful ; It contributes to the development of the sauce , as the starch will dissolve off of the meat into the sauce , where it will swell at about 180 F , helping to thicken the sauce . In this particular recipe , the flour is the only source of thickening , so it is being used for both purposes , but mostly for the second , where it is essentially creating a roux as your brown the beef , because you are also cooking the flour in the olive oil . In this recipe , omitting it would give you a much thinner sauce .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
According to <URL> , it should be stored in containers opaque to ultraviolet light for long term storage : The UV rays from sunlight , florescent lights , and other sources accelerate oxidation process . The storage container container for ghee must be opaque to filter out UV rays . Preferably ghee must be stored in a dark place I was unable to find credible sources with more detailed information that indicate exactly how this affects storage life . In fact , it was hard to find any references at all -- most were far more concerned with keeping it from being exposed to air ( oxygen ) . However , as it is such an easy thing to arrange -- just put the jar in a cabinet for example , or use an amber glass jar -- that it seems worth doing . My guess is that in practice , unless you are using your ghee very slowly , or have an extraordinarily large amount , that it makes very little difference , but again its easy , so why not ? I did find lots of references to using <URL> -- this is the power of Google ! :-)
@Adisak I was able to find one <URL> , although there may be many more . I also found food grade paraffin wax , but it seems that it has a much lower melting point . After a little reading it seems that making canelés can be a quite tricky and meticulous process , so you probably want to stick with the beeswax . They do sound delicious !
My best recommendation is to taste as you go . Taste the initial product ... raw vegetable , ingredient from the can , bottle , etc. and then continue to taste and sample a dish throughout the cooking process to see how flavors develop/diminish and enhance one another through the cooking process . Learning to season food is a process of educating your palate and developing a " flavor memory " One of the most important factors is to use enough salt . Food that is properly seasoned with salt should n't taste salty but will have a brighter more vibrant flavor of the ingredients that are in the dish . Food must be cooked with salt for this to occur . Food that is seasoned at the table will merely taste salty as the salt does n't have a chance to dissolve and pull the juices out and help them mingle with one another as happens during cooking . The more of the basic flavor profiles that you can incorporate the more lively and flavorful anything will be . Even before cooking you can take a look at a recipe and " disect " its flavor profile by determining which ingredients will add sweetness , sourness , etc. . If you notice that it 's heavy in one direction or another , the flavor profile of the item ( s ) missing will likely improve the dish . Then it 's a matter of deciding what ingredient with that flavor profile would be best to add to that particular dish . Shameless ( but applicable to the question ) plug : If you 're ever in Savannah , GA I offer a class called " Flavor Dynamics " . It is focused entirely around understanding how flavor develops , what affects our perception of flavor , and how to create well rounded flavor in your food .
Folding is almost always done when you have one ingredient like whipped cream , egg whites , meringue , or similar which has had a lot of air whipped into it , and you are incorporating that with another ingredient . The folding motion is meant to disturb the whipped ingredient is little as possible , in order to retain the whipped in air , and thus the volume of the mixture . If you simply whisk , or beat , the air would be beaten out . Whipping the egg whites or whipped cream alone forms a foam with nothing but the air and the fat in whipped cream , or the protein network in egg whites . It us unstable much like the bubbles we used to blow as children . If you add another ingredient , like flour , it can act as an abrasive , popping the little bubbles and deflating the foam . Ingredients which can dissolve fully , and so wo n't be abrasive to the buddies , can still dissolve into the foam walls , and change their chemistry to the point where they do n't hold air any more , again collapsing them . So even though the motion still might be called whisking or whipping , the result is not the same . There are only a few ingredients , such as sugar for whipped cream or egg whites , that can dissolve into the foam walls and not disrupt it , and these ingredients are best incorporated in the original whipping phase where the air is incorporated . Even with folding , there is some volume loss ; the goal is to minimize it .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
A quote from the below link ; " Do not thaw frozen seafood at room temperature . Thaw in the refrigerator or defrost in the microwave oven . If thawing in the refrigerator , allow one to two hours per pound of seafood " . <URL> &amp; Another quote from the link below ; " ... If food is allowed to remain at room temperature for two hours or longer , bacteria can multiply and cause food poisoning . - Even a tiny amount of contaminated food can cause severe illness . If you have any doubt about the safety of the food , throw it out ! " <URL>
Ah , the worsening pancake debacle . I know it well . We have all been there , even after training for countless hours to make the perfect soufflé at the Culinary Institute . The pan is getting too hot . You should cool the pan with a quick rinse . This will also have the effect of resetting the surface , to get rid of any built-up grime or grease . Good luck and happy cooking !
The existence of gas in a vacuum-sealed environment could be a sign of microbial activity . I would assume that , since the package appears to be sealed , that the gases in it were introduced from within . I would toss that one and feel OK using the other two .
You may convert evaporated milk into condensed milk by adding sugar to it . For each cup of evaporated milk <URL> . Pour the mixture in a pan , stir while heating on the stovetop until the sugar completely dissolves . Let cool . The heating of evaporated milk is similar to the treatment condensed milk undergoes , so the evaporated milk with sugar should be a perfect replacement .
A few things ... I brine for 12-24 hours . It really does make a difference . Do n't bother browning the meat ... you do n't want a crust , you want the meat to break down . Make your own barbecue sauce ! There 's a zillion recipes , and it always tastes better . When I make pulled pork , I take the cooking liquid ( you are cooking in liquid , yeah ? ) and reduce it right down to almost a demiglace , and use that as the base for my bbq sauce .
end question
start question
Why do fresh mandarin oranges get very bitter when baked ?
The white , pithy part is a source of the bitterness . Either peel more thoroughly , or trim off with a knife . The pulp of some oranges ( of the navel variety ) , can turn bitter when exposed to air . <URL>
Charcoal can get to 700 degrees F but in normal use you 're more likely to be in the 500F range . In order to get to the higher end of charcoal 's abilities there are a couple things you can do : Use natural <URL> , not briquettes . Lower the grill grate to within 1 " of the hot coals If 1 &amp; 2 do n't get you enough heat , consider using the Alton Brown <URL> ( Setup starts around the 8 minute mark )
The fleshy party of the fruit of <URL> is is supposed to be sweet and pleasant . However , it does not taste like chocolate . Chocolate is made from the nibs or seeds within the fruit of theobroma cacao , after it is fermented ground , and processed , and is in no way sweet . The nibs themselves are very low in sugar , and contain alkaloids ( such as caffeine or theobromine ) which are bitter . This probably evolved to discourage predation or disease to the seeds themselves . This is very similar to the way peach kernels ( the seed within the pits ) are not terribly sweet , although they certainly grow within a fruit that is . So no -- there is no such thing as naturally sweet chocolate . A related tree , Cupuaçu ( <URL> ) is cultivated more specifically for its fruits , which are sweet and said to taste something like pineapple . Again , the fleshy fruit is not analogous to the seed which eventually becomes chocolate .
Tea contains a lot of flavinoid compounds notably tannins . Tannins are astringent and have a very strong bitter flavor . The tannins are released much more slowly compared to the other flavor compounds . So when brewed for too long or too hot , much more tannins are released into the brew along and hence the resulting tea is much more bitter .
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
There are a number of reasons why the flavor of tomatoes changes during both the cooking and drying processes . The first is that when drying the tomatoes , farmers and processors will dust the tomatoes in fairly high levels of salt , which helps to keep harmful microbes and insects from eating into the fruit and causing rot and infections . The second is that when drying anything , you need to remove the water from the flesh of whatever it is you 're drying . This causes all of the flavor molecules to become more concentrated . The resulting flavor is more intense because there is simply more flavor per bite . The final and probably most important ( and beautiful :) reason is chemistry . Tomatoes play house to something like 400 volatile aromatic compounds - that is , molecular structures that change and break apart during the acts of heating or drying . While I do n't have the EXACT science in front of me right now ( and ca n't seem to find it on the interblags ) there 's strong indications that it has quite a bit to do with the structure of sulfur-heavy amino acids , c6 volatiles , and glutamic acid breaking down over the course of the drying process - due to the evaporation of water and introduction of salt - and changing into different aroma molecules . All of these , taken together together have a profound impact on the flavor profile of sundried tomatoes .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
There 's another reason for not boiling liquids , besides the possibility of making a mess ( boiling over ) or ruining it ( scorching , etc. ) . You actually reduce the amount of flavor by boiling . As <URL> : But here 's the deal : when simmering , water is not the only thing escaping . Ever notice how when you come home to a pot of sauce simmering on the stovetop or perhaps a beautiful pot roast braising in the oven , your entire home smells of it ? Guess what : if those flavorful aromatic compounds are reaching your nose , it means they are leaving the pot . So ... if the only goal was to make there be less liquid , boiling 's fine . But if you actually want to concentrate the flavors , you want a slow simmer . The article also goes into more details about reducing alcohol , and some problems with boiling tomato sauce ( which I believe applies to most pectin &amp; other hydrocolloid thickened sauces ) .
It definitely sounds like you had some water on whatever you stirred the oil with . When water droplets get in the oil , they sink since oil is lighter than water . Then the water droplets turn to steam because the boiling point of water is much below the boiling point of oil . At this point , the steam rapidly rises out of the oil and escapes with a noise and a splashing of oil . It 's good to be aware of the temperature of your oil when deep frying , but the oil will start to smoke long before it spontaneously combusts . Use a thermometer , and know the smoke point of the oil you are using , and you will be OK . The real danger is oil touching the burner , or the oil spilling on you , rather than the oil in the pot exploding . Stirring is unnecessary because the density of oil reduces as temperature increases , allowing the hotter oil to make its way to the top ( but in a nice controlled manner , unlike water ) .
Poaching is a gentle process - the milk is n't boiling so there is no risk of it burning or the like . It will of course not spoil in the sense of it going off , that 's a totally different process . Fresh milk is better because , well , it 's fresh . Powdered milk would probably work , but if you have fresh , use that .
You can try a few things . Use just the zest from the peel , and then slice and remove the pith and use just the inside . Pre-boil the lemon peels , then add them to your main dish . Remove the lemons before the bitterness gets too strong ( i.e. when you tasted the dish the first time ) but while there 's still a strong taste . This works because the citrus oils ( which are a major primary flavor contributor ) are just in the top layer of the peels , while the acid is in the inside . The pith is just plain bitter .
What are the primary causes of this ? The steam and other hot gasses that were puffing the cookies up either escapes or condenses . Without heat to create more steam , the cookies deflate . You get exactly the same effect with bread , quiches , and other baked goods . You can hear bread start to make a crackling sound almost as soon as it comes out of the oven , and the sound continues for some minutes until the bread has cooled a bit . Quiches are always quite puffy looking when they 're in the oven , but they start to shrink a bit as they cool . If you want your cookies to shrink less , you might try cooking them at a slightly higher temperature , or cooking them a bit longer , or perhaps not chilling them so much prior to baking . Bumping up the amount of egg white in the cookie may help , too . The idea is to get the structure of the cookie to set a bit more by the time you remove the cookies from the oven . That will , of course , cause the cookies to be less chewy and more crunchy .
Here are some suggestions : To make the frosting whiter : If you use butter , eliminate it . Use all of the other standard ingredients but substitute heavy whipping cream for the butter . Add until you have the consistency you want . While I ca n't say I would do this , a viable option would be to substitute a good brand of vegetable shortening for the butter . Rather than pure vanilla you may consider imitation clear vanilla . Try adding white food coloring . Regarding food coloring I would recommend a good gel or soft gel/paste formula . To make the frosting shinier : If you use butter in your frosting you can try adding more butter . While I have never cooked cream cheese frosting , there are recipes available online that use corn syrup or glucose syrup and are supposed to produce excellent results in regard to gloss . After you finish frosting your cake , take a butter knife ( non-serrated ) or metal frosting spatula and dip in hot water and dry . Go over the frosting again dipping the knife as needed . This should melt the very outside of the frosting only creating the gloss you want .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
Sadly , baked potatoes are one of those foods that are only truly at their peak when first baked . Either re-baking them or microwaving them will give the least bad results for reheating . Your better bet , however , is to give them a new life , for example as potato pancakes , hash browns , as an ingredient in a hash , or similar application . While they wo n't have the same quality as a fresh baked potato , these can be very good dishes .
First off I want to point out the term " fresh " . While some containers might keep milk from spoiling for longer , it may not taste as nice . Several things might be why : 1 . ) Plastics leach flavor and odor into the milk . <URL> , not wax since about the 1940s . I would say this is likely the biggest impact -- I 've always found plastic containers make drinks and food taste downright funky . <URL> are made of <URL> . The FDA considers this material safe , but just because something is safe does n't mean it does n't impart a flavor . <URL> showing glass having least effect on taste : " ... overall , the development of water off-taste occurred least in glass containers and most often in high density polyethylene containers ... " 2 . ) <URL> Ice cold milk tastes better ( fresher ) to most people . The thing is , it 's not actually colder while in the fridge . <URL> That means heat can transfer through it faster than plastic . The <URL> demands equilibrium , so while your hand makes the milk hotter , the glass of milk makes your hand colder . Because of glass 's higher thermal conductivity , it does this faster than plastic and we sense the glass as being colder . So while it 's not - actually - colder and would n't keep the milk from spoiling for longer , it would affect our perception of how cold it is and therefore also the taste . Packaging of milk varies so a thicker glass bottle might also keep the milk colder while it 's sitting on the counter vs most thin plastic milk jugs . There are a lot of variables with packaging so it really depends on what you 're comparing . 3 . ) <URL> Permeability : <URL> Starting in 1937 the <URL> used to be one of the main statutory tests for checking if milk was bad by checking how much oxygen is present in the milk . This lets you know how much aerobic bacteria is in the milk ( bacteria that requires oxygen ) . <URL> While we do have newer , better tests for handling milk in bulk refrigeration these days , it 's important to note for a long time this was a large part of measuring milk quality . 4 . ) It just takes time to process , test , and ship milk . You mentioned it yourself -- usually to get a glass bottle you have to get it from a dairy , something local and closer to home . So it has n't traveled as far . Also , while it 's not legal everywhere , some people will sell raw milk in glass bottles so there is n't even time wasted <URL> or testing the milk . <URL> . Still , some people might prefer the taste while it 's still good . Processing is done to kill bad bacteria ( so it 's not a bad thing ) , but it does take time that eats into shelf life . Milk delivered to you may only be a few hours old . The processing itself can effect the flavor of the milk . Processing plants can hold milk for up to 3 days . 5 . ) In many areas , the companies that bottle with glass are the ones that are making higher quality milk in the first place . Glass is expensive , and usually only people who are willing to pay more for higher quality milk are going to be the same ones who pay for a higher quality bottle . Glass bottles are good for the environment and so some people are willing to pay more for that . <URL> uses about half as much energy vs plastic counterpart . Note here that glass does n't automatically mean " better milk " . 6 . ) <URL> In a 1980 study , subjects were blindfolded and asked to tell whether the beverage they were drinking was flavored orange . Only one in five could . But when they were allowed to see what they were drinking , each of them identified the orange flavor . And when a lime-flavored drink was colored orange , nearly half of respondents thought it was flavored orange You also see this with high-end restaurants -- they put a lot of value in how the food is plated , going as far as using a ruler to get a perfectly straight line , and wiping up small drips to make the food look perfect . Our vision influences our taste . Since most glass is translucent and most plastic containers are not , there 's a good chance this influences taste as well .
The biggest thing you can do is peel it . If a cucumber 's bitter , it 's much more in the peel than in the flesh . It 's also usually more bitter at the stem end , so you might want to start from the other end , and possibly ultimately discard an inch from the stem end if it really is too bitter for you . Unless you 're unusually sensitive to the bitterness , that ought to cover it . Bitterness is also fairly variable from cucumber to cucumber , so it 's possible that you could shop for less bitter ones - maybe a different variety - or buy them only during more favorable seasons .
I had to return and answer this myself . The tea towels broke first , and then the shirts ( even heavy cloth ones ) . They broke under the stress of squeezing the coconut milk out . Then I realized I had an immersion blender . The resulting milk after using the high setting , was smooth and delicious . A fool-proof method : Blend in normal blender , to make a gritty milk . Finish smooth with an immersion blender .
The texture of frozen herbs is going to be totally different after thawing . In my opinion frozen herbs are fine for using in cooking , but they do n't work well as a garnish or as an addition to a dish at the end of cooking . The taste is definitely better than dried , though .
The white , pithy part is a source of the bitterness . Either peel more thoroughly , or trim off with a knife . The pulp of some oranges ( of the navel variety ) , can turn bitter when exposed to air . <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to freeze Eggplant Parmesan ? If so , better to freeze before or after baking ?
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
Soup freezes great in my experience . To freeze it for long term storage , you 'll probably want it to be vacuum sealed . In order to do this I freeze individual sized portions in Tupperware-style containers ( make sure to leave enough room for expansion ) , and as soon as they 're solid , vacuum seal those large " cubes " . They generally stack pretty nicely in our garage freezer . In general soups should thaw and taste very good , some flavors even seem become stronger or seem to enhance and meld better with the freezing . If you vacuum seal them as above you can throw them ( still sealed ) into a pot of boiling water for hot soup relatively fast ! As an aside , another great option with a leftover turkey frame would be to save it with previous odds and ends ( carrot/celery ends , onion pieces , etc ) in the freezer , and when you have enough make a simple stock . You can then freeze the stock into cubes ( in ice cube trays ) for soup-making later , sauteeing veggies , in place of water for more flavorful rice , and a ton of other things .
Hot gasses such as steam and CO2 trapped inside the dough by the crust are important to help properly bake the bread , as well as to give it form and structure . If you cut a slice off the end of the bread before the bread has finished baking , you completely change the conditions under which the bread finishes baking : steam will escape rather than building up , the internal temperature probably wo n't rise as much , and the bread will tend to dry out rather than cook . If you 're not sure whether your bread is done , you should take its temperature . An instant-read , digital thermometer with as fine a probe as possible is best because it compromises the crust the least . For the same reasons , you should let bread cool as @justkt suggests before cutting into the loaf . Bread smells great when it 's hot , but it tastes best when it has cooled somewhat .
I can honestly say I 've done this on many occasions . Especially for pizza dough , I defrost in the fridge for 24 hours in a cling filmed bowl which allows it to prove slowly through the day . Never once had an issue with it .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
Yes , I 've done this . The key is to ensure that the jam is n't filling the glass container completely so that as it freezes it has room to expand . I used a typical Ball canning jar , which sealed well enough to keep ice crystals out for several months . From what I understand , freezer canning is useful when you do n't have a pressure canner but want to can lower acid items which otherwise might be dangerous to your health ( if not pressure canned ) .
I would say it depends . I find once you freeze an item the flavor/texture/propeties of the item is changed ( for better or for worse ) the next time you goto use it . If your using caramelized onions in a soup , or stew , something where flavors blend together for a longer period of time , then yes go ahead . however if your using the caramelized onions on top of a steak or something similar . Then my answer would be no .
A lot of dairy products become watery or start to separate if they 've been frozen or defrosted : pastries with cream fillings , cream cheese , sour cream . The <URL> does not recommend that eggs or canned foods be stored frozen . Eggshells can crack easily , and even if the shells remain intact , the consistency of egg yolks makes them difficult to use for anything other than hard-boiling . Canned foods that are frozen accidentally could pose health risks , so the USDA recommends inspecting to see if the can has rusted or burst . If the can is swollen , thaw it but check to make sure it does n't look or smell off before eating . The FDA also has a <URL> ( pdf ) on which foods do n't freeze well and how long you can freeze other foods . ( Note : when there is a recommended limit on how long a food should be frozen , it indicates when the quality of the food will decrease - NOT when it will " expire " . You could theoretically freeze most foods indefinitely . ) The only other thing I would avoid freezing is any sort of raw green ( lettuce , spinach , etc. ) . Greens wilt and turn brown when you freeze them . ( If they 're cooked , they should be fine to freeze and thaw . ) EDIT : Apparently , <URL> , including pepper , cloves , garlic , green pepper , imitation vanilla , and onions , paprika and celery taste different .
It 's called honeyjack when freeze distilled . I have n't seen any specific name for steam distilled mead , so it 's likely fine to use the same name for both products . Mead can also be distilled to a brandy or liqueur strength . A version called " honey jack " can be made by partly freezing a quantity of mead and straining the ice out of the liquid ( a process known as freeze distillation ) , in the same way that applejack is made from cider . <URL> Unfortunately there are a number of " honey brandies " and " honey liqueurs " that are simply other liquor bases with honey added for flavor and sweetness . Also , see the discussion on <URL>
If it 's high quality , store it in the refrigerator in an air-tight container and try to use it as quickly as possible so you can enjoy it while it 's fresh . There are always excuses to use loads of parmesan : cheese plates , pasta dinners , fondue , scones , grilled cheese sandwiches , etc. . It should last for 3-4 months in a sealed container in the fridge . As time goes on it will get drier , but that 's to be expected . If you ca n't eat it in time , consider giving some away to a friend . If you wanted , you could freeze it as well , but I would only use it for baking or melting once thawed as some flavor and a lot of texture will be lost .
Several sources as <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> practically insist that you salt steaks before cooking them . I do n't think McGee experiments with or discusses exactly when to season/salt a steak in his books , but <URL> that he is also in favour of pre-salting . The fact that so many people seem to prefer this technique would seem to indicate that there 's at least some merit to it , even if the science is n't well-understood . All of the arguments I 've heard against salting steak ( or beef in general ) before cooking seem to be <URL> in nature . When pressed for an explanation , many of these people claim that the salt draws out moisture which will subsequently dry out the cut . In practice , the amount of moisture it draws out is practically negligible unless you actually cure it , which means using lots of salt and letting it sit that way for a long time . I do n't know anybody that does this . Well , <URL> ( warning : do not follow the advice on that page unless you are fully prepared to ruin a perfectly good steak ) . When pressed , most of these people ( including Anita Lo , above ) say that the water it draws out to the surface will inhibit the <URL> . This is true - the presence of water does inhibit the Maillard reaction and any significant quantity of water will give you a steamed gray steak instead of a delicious seared brown one . But the key word here is significant . No reasonable amount of seasoning will draw out so much moisture that you actually end up with a puddle of boiling water underneath the steak , and even if it did , you would simply pat the steak dry before searing it . You do pat your steaks dry , do n't you ? Also note that this applies to dry seasoning . When marinating a cut of beef it is another story entirely . Salt in a marinade really does create brining and that will tend to make the meat juicier . When meat brines , it absorbs extra moisture - the meat still loses moisture when cooked but the added moisture from the brine helps to offset it ( this , again , is all in McGee ) . A saline solution also dissolves a portion of the tougher proteins in the meat , resulting in a more tender result . Salt is a great thing to have in a marinade , which is why some of the simplest of marinades - soy or teriyaki sauce - are so effective . Just , again , make sure to pat that beef dry before pan-searing it if you want to get any sort of browning going on . Anecdotally - for what little that 's worth - I find that there 's very little difference in tenderness whether seasoning with salt briefly before or shortly after cooking ( before resting ) . I 've done both and I honestly do n't think I could identify which was which in a blind test , except perhaps for the consistency of the " crust " that forms when you really pile on the salt - this is a favourable result for many , and I 'll often do this if I 'm in the mood . But all in all , the scientific data on this subject is scant ; the results are very inconclusive . And it just does n't matter that much ; the debaters seem to put entirely too much emphasis on this point when there are far more important factors in preparing a great steak or roast , such as additional seasonings , what it 's seared in , temperature and heat distribution of the pan , and let 's not forget the cut and grade of meat . These things have profound effects on the final result , and if I were obsessive about beef to a fault , then I would concentrate my efforts more on finding better quality ingredients and equipment rather than fussing over the salt issue .
A basic Google search hit on numerous sites all which agree that almond paste can be frozen with no deterioration of the product . The key is to wrap it up in several layers of plastic bags or plastic , then aluminum foil to keep out other flavors from the freezer as my experience has been that ground nuts will absorb odors if improperly wrapped . Once in the freezer , hopefully in manageable-sized packages for easy thaw and use , the almond paste should keep for several months at least . I 've stored ground almonds in the freezer for a year with no harm to the flavor . Best of luck !
You may be able to find vegetarian Grana Padano style cheese , but I do n't think you will find the real thing in vegetarian form . This is because the making of Grana Padano is still a traditional process and true GP cheese is only produced in certain regions of Italy . It in fact has P.D.O. ( Protected Designation of Origin ) status , which means that only those cheeses produced in certain regions and using certain methods can legally be called Grana Padano . I imagine one of those methods is using animal rennet . I would be surprised that there is n't some form of substitute available in Italy , as they have the highest proportion of vegetarians in Europe at 10 % . I get the feeling , however , that they are perhaps less zealous about it than others if it means giving up good cheese . The only suggestion I have found as an alternative to GP as something to sprinkle on pasta etc is nutritional yeast powder , which apparently has a similar nutty , creamy taste . Not ideal , but if you make the choice to be veggie you have to take the rough with the smooth ! I see from your profile that you live in the UK ; we are lucky in that we have a lot of fantastic small local producers , so it may be worth looking up some local dairies or cheesemakers and seeing if they can offer an alternative .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
Depends on the type of cabbage , but I 've had success with prepping as if I was about to boil , and then freeze on a dry cloth ; Once frozen , transfer to an air tight freezer bag , and use as fast as is practical .
Yes , you can freeze stew . You may find that the vegetables are a bit softer or broken into smaller pieces after thawing . If you used a thickening agent ( flour , cornstarch ) , it may separate as it thaws in the refrigerator overnight . To remedy that , remove a bit of the liquid , simmer with a bit more thickener and whisk so that it stabilizes . Then , gently stir into the stew as you reheat it . And , you 're correct , ' do n't refreeze ' applies to the raw meat , not to when it has been cooked .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
Nutella is over half sugar by weight ; peanut butter might be more like 5-10 % depending on brand/style . That already sounds like enough that it wo n't make a good one-for-one substitution in most things , especially anything that 's not already pretty sweet . It probably also means that it 'll have a slightly different resulting texture ; nutella is already a bit less thick ( probably again affected by the sugar ) , and I believe this is pretty obvious when heated , though it 's been a while since I tried .
I am afraid that it is quite hard to prepare it yourself . And you do n't start from phylo dough . Kataifi is not shredded , it is spun . You need a hot metal wheel for that . It is made from a batter which is thrown on the wheel , and because the wheel is spun , it bakes on the wheel in threads . You need not only the instruments ( this wheel ) , but also quite a bit of experience to throw it in even threads . Kataifi makers are a popular attraction on middle-eastern markets . If you ca n't visit one , you have to visit an ethnic grocery store to buy the prepared kataifi noodles .
end question
start question
How can I get a corn tortilla to be pliable enough to work with ?
You need to warm them up a bit . There are a number of ways to do this 20 or 30 seconds on a griddle ( or a <URL> if you have one ) wrap a stack in foil and place in 325 oven for until warm wrap a stack in a clean towel and steam them using a steamer slightly moisten a towel and wrap it around a stack and microwave them for a bit If you 've warmed them and they are still tearing then your tortillas are no longer fresh .
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
I like my chocolate chip cookies chewy too and I do it all the time . Here is what I do : Flour : I use a higher gluten flour instead of AP , such as Bread flour . Eggs : An additional egg yolk will help Sugar : A bigger Brown Sugar to Sugar ratio helps but not vital if you do not have brown sugar at hand . Butter : Butter should be melted . I think this is the key to chewiness . The recipe is straightforward : cream butter with sugar , add wet ingredients , incorporate dry ingredients slowly and lastly add the chips . Be sure to chill the dough for at least 30 min . The more you rest , the better . See <URL> for effects of resting the dough .
If you 've baked your puff pastry in the past at 375 then it 's probably not a temperature problem , however I usually bake it between 400-425 degrees ( 400 convection or 425 in standard oven ) . Lower temperatures are n't a problem for the baking aspect as it will still cook through . The problem lies in the fact that the heat wo n't be significant enough to generate the steam needed for expansion . Egg wash could be a culprit as it should only be used on the top and not allowed to run down the sides where it will seal the edge together and keep it from rising unevenly .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
Baking soda seems to work well for me , but the best thing is to get rid of old food that is causing the smell , and seal strong-smelling foods in airtight containers .
With every ( edible ) part of an animal , you should consider the former duty of the piece of meat at hand . This will influence the internal structure and thus the best method to prepare it . So throwing all chicken offal into one pot at the same time is probably not the wisest idea . Lets " dissect " what we are dealing with here : Liver and kidneys Basically no muscle fibers , just a very tender large gland . Keep in mind that there are no fibrous parts that " melt down " during a long cooking process , just tender stuff that gets very hard and dry when overcooked . So short is the key here - a quick sear in a hot pan and you are good to go . Depending on your personal preference , slightly pink or " just not pink any more " would be a good point to serve . Note that especially for organs from larger animals careful preparation is important : remove all hard parts like " vessels " and excess fat and wash kidneys well or soak them for half an hour to an hour . Some suggest soaking in milk . Hearts and stomachs Just the opposite - a hardworking muscle , garnished with a good amount of collagen . Here , you need time to break down the collagen . When you heat heart or gizzard , first the muscle parts toughen up , then the collagen breaks down and the piece gets tender again . Braising is a common method to acchieve good results . For chicken hearts , sources vary between 15 and 25 minutes braising after roasting/frying them in your pan . It may depend on the quality of meat at hand , where your personal " just right " is . Larger animals ' hearts may need much longer , a very old cook book of mine suggests 1.5 hours for beef hearts . Chicken gizzards are even tougher than hearts : did you notice the white lump of collagenous fibers on each side when cleaning them ? Give it time to get tender . It may take from thirty minutes to over an hour - sources vary .
Cheaper spirits can certainly be used in culinary applications . The results wo n't be identical , but inexpensive liquors are a lot more cost-effective since the subtle differences in flavor between middling and quality spirits tend to get masked by other flavors . This is especially true when you 're applying heat , which will burn off much of the alcohol ( though not all ) and change some of the volatile flavor compounds in the spirit . For things like a tomato sauce made with wine , a pan sauce deglazed with brandy , or a dessert flambeed with rum , the difference between bottom-shelf and high-end product will be evident only in the cost . Poor-quality vodka will have some " rough " flavors if you 're drinking it straight , and those might carry over into the liqueur in particular . Chilling will help , so you probably wo n't notice much difference in your borscht , and once you bake the liqueur into something I doubt any flavor difference will be noticeable in the final product . As a rule of thumb , the more you manipulate the spirit , the less you 'll notice its provenance . I can say confidently that using free , leftover plonk in a culinary application will be a much better use than drinking it !
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
You need to warm them up a bit . There are a number of ways to do this 20 or 30 seconds on a griddle ( or a <URL> if you have one ) wrap a stack in foil and place in 325 oven for until warm wrap a stack in a clean towel and steam them using a steamer slightly moisten a towel and wrap it around a stack and microwave them for a bit If you 've warmed them and they are still tearing then your tortillas are no longer fresh .
There are two common varieties of pickled ginger in Japan ( and a bunch of less common ones ) . The " gari " is " amazu-shouga " ( 甘酢生姜 or 甘酢しょうが ) it 's usually thinly sliced and often , though not always , left uncolored , or just colored enough to leave it slightly pink instead of yellowish-white . Due to generous use of sugar or other sweeteners , it 's usually somewhat sweet , and that 's right there in the name , which roughly translates as " sweet vinegar ginger " . It 's generally made with a young ginger that has a pretty thin , moist skin . Another variety , which typically comes in the shape of thick matchsticks , is a bit saltier and , because of the thickness , a bit firmer . It 's called " kizami-shouga " or ( きざみ生姜 or きざみしょうが ) . Kizami refers to the shape , not the flavor . Occasionally this will be labeled " beni-shouga " ( 紅ショウガ ) , which means red ginger . I believe that more mature ginger is used for kizami-shouga than is used for amazu-shouga . It 's generally used to garnish and season things like yakisoba or okonomiyaki , but is not typically served with most types of sushi . The amazu shouga is more common for most sushi . So it 's possible that you 've picked up kizami-shouga instead of amazu-shouga . While there 's nothing stopping you from adding sugar or other sweeteners from the brine , that probably wo n't help that much . If you do have amazu-shouga , it 's also possible you 've just found one that does n't taste that good . The quality of packaged Japanese pickles I 've found in the US is n't all that great , though I 've occasionally found decent umeboshi . You might try a different brand , or consider pickling your own ginger . The basic process for pickling the ginger is a hybrid between salt pickles and vinegar pickles : You peel and thinly slice the ginger , and rub it with salt , leaving it for at least an hour or overnight to sweat . You 'll then add a solution of sugar and rice vinegar , occasionally with a little bit of ume-zu , which is the salty brine extracted from umeboshi-making , or beet juice , if you want to guarantee a pink color .
I had the same problem before , but I learned this great trick from Larousse : Try sprinkling slices of your eggplant with plenty of salt on both sides and let rest for about fifteen minutes . The salt will draw out a lot of water from the vegetable , making it less spongy . Then , dry off the slices before adding them to very hot oil in a frying pan . The hot oil should help make a nice sear , sealing off the eggplant , so it does n't soak up anymore oil . If you need to , turn down the heat after the eggplant is browned to let it finish cooking .
So , there 's maybe a few things I found to reduce the astringency or bitterness of spinach . If you can reduce the bitterness to a flavor you like first , rather then relying on the sugar to mask or balance astringency ( which it does n't hide so much ) - you can probably end up with a better dessert . One thought is that <URL> the spinach will help counter bitterness . briefly boil your washed spinach , and discard the water . If you 're intending to further cook the spinach afterwards ( as in making a fruit-based halwa ) , cold shocking it might not be needed - It 's possible that discarding the water will be enough , though of course you can try with and without the cold shock to see what works for you . Another thing is astringency can be countered or hidden by soaking in <URL> - Adding a bit of <URL> to your final recipe ( as in some of the fattier nut-style halwas ) should help balance a little bitterness , Pre-soaking the spinach in milk and discarding might work to draw out some of the astringency . Soaking in food grade lime or absorbic acid like lemon juice or vitamin C , might also work . Another option is to consider the source of your spinach - <URL> ( for example ) will likely not have as much of the bitterness in it to begin with , compared to a cooked full grown spinach . Baby spinach is mild enough to be eaten straight in a salad , mild enough that it might even be candied , like <URL> , for a garnish after your dish is complete . You might also consider whether the spinach will work better as a flavoring agent or as a bulk agent in your halwa - many fruit based halwas ( which seems the easiest method ) simply stew the fruit with sugar for a long cooking period , so you need to make sure the spinach as a whole is not going to turn bitter or change while cooking . Other types of halwa may use different ingredients , for different effects - a jelly based or nut-based halwa might easily be flavored with spinach juice ... juice which can be extracted at any point along the process , from raw to well-boiled . Leaving the solids behind may help reduce unwanted flavors - or just make the juice more controllable ( that is , extract the juice when it is a flavor you like , and the lack of the rest of the plant might keep it form changing overmuch ) . You might even consider pairing your spinach with another fruit or vegetable , something complementary or neutral for the bulk removed if you go the juice route - something mild and vegetal might mellow the spinach taste without overriding it ( especially if you watch the proportions and use more spinach flavor , less other flavors ) . Maybe watercress , or celery , asparagus , or bellpepper , something like that that tastes green , or tastes good with spinach . Or you could find a flavor that goes well with the spinach - citrus , or apple , or berries - the kind of flavors that show up on sweet dressings for fresh spinach salads .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
That 's your meringue weeping . You could either make a very unstable meringue , which will weep uncontrollably , or you can replicate the effect with caramelised sugar - the latter is probably better for consistency and not-having-a-sloppy-mess-on-top-of-your-cheesecakeness .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
The idea of creaming is definitely to incorporate some air into the fat-sugar mixture , which should give the final product a lighter texture . So perhaps your cake was a little heavier than it was supposed to be . Good creaming also helps distribute the fat well . But maybe you managed to mix some more air in later in the recipe - certainly I imagine you could do better beating the batter with a stand mixer than I can by hand ! And with a stand mixer I 'm sure it was all mixed fine , too . So if the cakes were n't too heavy for you , it 's not anything to worry about .
I use a liquid oil instead of a spray oil ; you 're far more likely to get hot spots with a spray , which is bad for any kind of cooking . That stuff works better as a grease than an actual cooking oil . I also tend to have pretty good success by frying the tortillas up to just a hint of golden-brown ( dark brown spots is overdone ) and then finishing it off ( i.e. to melt the cheese ) in a low-heat oven . As an added benefit , if you 're making a largish batch then that makes it easy to keep them warm until they 're all ready to serve . YMMV , but I find this to be the case for a whole lot of stovetop cooking ; with the direct heat , it 's very easy to dry foods out before they 're cooked to the stage you want . It 's far easier to control the heat in an oven and just use the stove for an initial ( or final ) fry/sear .
Storing Tea You tea should never become bitter due to your storage methods . The only thing that should happen to tea as a result of how you store it is general loss of flavor or loss of the complexity of flavor ( in a green tea , you might lose any honey or fruit notes of a tea that has been improperly stored , but it 'll still taste like green tea ) . There are a couple of factors at play when storing tea . The first is light . Exposure to light will degrade the quality of tea , stripping it of both color and flavor . Light also sets off <URL> . So , you should store your tea in a light-blocking container ( like a typical metal tea tin ) . The next factor is air . Tea needs to be stored in a place that does not have any strong-smelling other foods or chemicals because it absorbs other odors very easily . In addition , tea absorbs moisture from the air , so it needs to be stored in a dry place . Moisture can cause several different problems with your tea : it could start binding to the tannins and make your tea taste bitter when you eventually brew it , and excess moisture could provide breeding grounds for bacteria or fungus , which would make your tea unfit for brewing at all . So , store your tea in an airtight container that blocks moisture and any other nearby odors . Vacuum sealing is not necessary , unless you want to keep a batch of tea for a long time without using it at all . I have n't found any evidence supports claims of oxidation affecting taste more than moisture or light . Different types of tea are created by oxidizing tea leaves ( white teas are the least oxidized , black teas the most , and greens and oolongs are somewhere in between ) , so oxidation is not inherently bad for tea . To sum it up : Protect your tea from the harmful effects of light , moisture , ambient odors , and air by storing it in an airtight container in a cool , dark place . If stored properly , most kinds of tea leaves should retain most of their flavor for about two years , though fresher is always better . ( Some teas , like Japanese green teas , are traditionally only stored for about 3 months . ) Brewing Tea In order to achieve the best taste , brew tea according to the processor 's instructions ( at least to start with - once you become more familiar with tea and what you like , you can adjust according to taste ) . The tea manufacturer 's want their tea to taste good , and they are experts , so you can rely on them to provide decent instructions . I 've never bought tea that did n't have instructions for brewing right on the package , but in case you find some that do n't have instructions , here are some general guidelines . I 've taken this from Upton Tea 's <URL> , and it corresponds to my own experience with making tea and chatting with tea importers / shop owners , too . Whole Leaf Teas black teas : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 3-4 minutes ; if serving with milk or lemon , steep 4-5 minutes green teas : slightly less than boiling ( 180 F ) , steep 2-3 minutes oolong teas : lighter oolongs use warm ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes white teas : less than boiling ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes herbal tisanes : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 5-8 minutes Fanning , Crushed Leaves , or Powder This is what most pre-bagged teas are , and since they have been processed to be finer , they require a shorter brewing time . ( Finer leaves means more surface area , so you get more tannins per second when brewing , compared to tea leaves in larger pieces . ) Use guidelines above , but brew for 1-1 .5 minutes less than whole leaf teas The bitter taste comes from <URL> . There are two ways for tea to become unpleasantly bitter : steeping at too high a temperature , or steeping for too long . ( It 's also possible that if your water is heavily chlorinated or otherwise impure that it could be making your tea taste bad , but that 's far less likely than improper brewing . ) If you 're making tea from loose tea leaves , using too many leaves could also make your tea bitter ; a good rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon of tea per 8 oz of water , though this can vary depending on the type of tea you 're making . Generally speaking , the longer you brew tea , the more tannins will be released and the bitterer the tea will be . If you use the times above as a starting point , you should n't get any overly bitter tea , but remember : each batch of tea is unique , and each tea drinker 's taste is different . Experiment until you find what you consider to be the perfect cup of tea . Lastly , start with good quality tea . Some tea is poorly processed and the flavor is ruined before you 've even opened the package . If you start with a high-quality tea , you 're much more likely to get good results . :)
end question
start question
How do you properly wash hands after dealing with raw chicken ?
As I recall from all my food safety training : to properly wash your hands , wet them with warm water ( at least 100 F ) , apply soap , scrub all over your hands and in between your fingers for 20 seconds and rinse . That should thoroughly remove the bad bacteria and any other debris clinging to your hands . That should be all you need .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
The purpose - as with any cooked meat - is to let the meat firm up so it does n't release juices when you cut into it . In the case of a turkey it also helps to let it cool enough to not burn you when you are carving and eating it . Both of these goals will be met in 30 minutes to an hour . I do n't know why that chef would recommend 3 hours . At that length of time the turkey would start to approach room temperature and would be less appealing to eat as well as start the clock on the danger zone .
If you want to turn your cold butter spreadable quickly , patience is about your only option . You can try microwaving it very briefly , and maybe on the " defrost " setting , but you run a strong risk of melting it too much . If I 'm thinking of the same thing you are , a butter conditioner is really just a unit that allows you to keep your butter in the fridge but still keep it closer to room temp -- so that 's more about storage than turning hard butter into spreadable butter on the spot . A storage option that allows you to keep your butter fresh for a pretty long period , but still leave it out on the counter so it 's soft , is a butter bell . You can look them up online -- many shops have them . It 's basically an inverted cup that sits inside a larger one with a little water at the bottom . The butter is packed into the inverted cup and stays put when you place the cup so the edges are under the water in the other cup . The water keeps air out so the butter stays fresh even at room temperature . You could do the same thing by mashing a bunch of butter into a teacup , then setting it upside down in a saucer full of water . If it 's too hot in your house , though , the butter will slip out of the inverted cup , so I mostly only use our butter bell in the winter . One thing to note about butter itself : Some butters are more spreadable at cooler temperatures . The Irish and French butters we can get here are much closer to spreadable at refrigerator temperatures than the regular US supermarket brands . I 'm not sure what the difference is , though .
Have you tried using a marshmallow recipe that is only made from gelatin and cooked sugar syrup ( sugar , water , and light corn syrup to soft ball stage , 240 degrees F ) ? I have made various piped marshmallows that will hold swirly shapes using this type of marshmallow recipe . It is a bit more stable than the egg based recipes . The most important thing is to make sure that the marshmallow mixture is whipped to a nice fluffy , shiny , smooth stage ( about 7-10 minutes on high speed ) and piped very quickly into whatever form you want before it sets up using a large round tip . Timing is of utmost importance here and you may lose some marshmallow during this process at home . I would also recommend piping onto a silpat ( silicone ) lined sheet tray or a piece of wax paper that has been lightly dusted with a mixture of cornstarch and confectioner 's sugar .
Myth busters beware , are you ready ? Go ! No brining nor seasoning will make your chicken too salty . 5 % , 7 % , 10 % , The only sodium saturating process known to men is the injection , the needle injection , the so called " added solution " . If you 're only brining , you 're miles away from needle injection consequences , yet another misunderstood process . Brining is not to be feared , injections is . Edit ( after all these comments/questions showed up ) : Brining is a complex subject which I can not address here , and a lot of myths are floating around , mostly related to nuances , while people do not understand the enormous impact of : osmosis vs. diffusion , which ingredient are real actors in brining and which are not , among salt sugar fat acids alcohol herbs/flavors spices/Pungency / [ scoville scale ] what happens during passive brining vs. active cooking , including the effects of slow cooking vs. high heat the type of meat , the thickness of the meat , the duration of the brine/marination . You can debate this thing for days and years , but what matters here is the question . The assumption is " I marinated ( 5 % ) a chicken and now that my marination is over , I 'm thinking of seasoning ( salt ) before cooking . Am I running a risk to saturate the end product with sodium ? " The clear answer is NO , as long as your brine did n't last weeks , or your meat was not previously injected with a sodium solution , e.g 12 % or 15 % . The only time you have to worry about salt seasoning is when your meat has already been salted with injection , or if you just managed to cook a peace of meat with a higher than 5 % salt solution for more than a week , which wo n't happen unless we are talking about dried cured meat , which is an aberration as I 've never seen it . Please be careful with references to articles , books , so called scientific published papers . You really need to read them slowly and carefully , interpretation is key , understand where they came from , who wrote them , who paid for it , who 's getting paid for it , which is the source , ... etc , even if the almighty gods of molecular gastronomy are named on it . FYI : I 've been fighting a few USDA/FDA strict rules for years ( e.g. caning , meat temp ) , while believing their overall work is awesome .
It is possible for mold to form on cashews - or any other nuts - but only if there has been moisture penetration into the container . If the moisture is at a safe ( low ) level , then mold wo n't grow . See for example , <URL> , which refers to the maximum acceptable moisture content of 5.8 % for retail storage/shipping , although if you look at their data table , it appears that you may still end up with non-trivial amounts of mold in the low 5 % range ( which is why you are supposed to store nuts sealed and in a cool , dry place ) . Honestly , cashews are hard enough such that you would almost certainly see mold on the surface if it were present in harmful quantities . Most likely what you 're smelling/tasting is simply oxidation of the fats ( the process which causes rancidity ) without actual full-blown rancidity . Mold requires moisture but all oxidation requires is light and maybe a little air exposure . If you really want to be on the safe side - e.g. if your home is particularly hot or humid - then store your nuts in the refrigerator or freezer ( sealed , to prevent contamination or off-odours ) . Although most ( all ? ) nuts are considered shelf-stable , they do keep longer in the fridge or freezer .
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
There are many myths surrounding yogurt making : UHT milk is bad . This is simply not true . I have made yogurt with whole fat UHT milk for years and it comes out nice and thick . In fact for the past several months I have been using a high quality whole milk powder that makes a lovely , thick yogurt . Store bought yogurt will always be thicker because of additives . Also not true . My yogurt is as thick as a high fat sour cream and contains no added milk powder , gelatine , etc. . You need many hours of ' fermentation ' to make yogurt . Again I do n't agree . My yogurt sets in 3-4 hours , after which it goes in the fridge to cool and finish the culturing process . The milk must be exactly x temperature when you add the starter . This is only somewhat true . As long as the milk is at or below 45 ° C it is fine . If you can stand the temperature , so can the bacteria -- ie , if you can hold a finger in it for ~ 10 sec , it 's ok . That said , too low and you 're losing some effects of the protein denature explained below . Everything must be sterilized . This is only somewhat true . Clean everything carefully , of course , but you are adding a starter with billions of cultivated bacteria into an ideal environment for it to grow . It will easily dominate other bacteria that happen to get in -- and they will , since there are bacteria in the air all around us , so even post-sterilization there will be plenty of foreign stuff entering the yogurt . That said , an over-long incubation will give other bacteria a chance to express themselves , so best to avoid that . Do n't move , touch , or cause the yogurt to shake in any way during incubation or it will fail . I used to believe this myself but it 's really not that sensitive . Obviously less agitation is better , but it will not fail even with fairly substantial movement during the incubation . Drinking yogurt is shaken quite violently during incubation in order to keep it liquid and even then it 's still quite viscous . The keys to making good thick yogurt are : Protein . The milk becomes solid because of a protein in the milk , and for that to happen , the protein must first be heated to above 70 ° C. I heat it to 75-80 ° C for just a few minutes and it still turns out very thick . A milk with high quality protein will make a great yogurt . Incubation temperature . If you want to make good yogurt in 3-4 hours ( beyond which it will not get thicker , only more sour ) , it must be incubated at a steady 40-45 ° C . A lower temperature will also produce yogurt , but you are in a race with other bacteria , so the quicker it 's done the better . Buy a 75-cent indoor thermometer and start looking for ways to create the right temperature environment . Time between generations . Try to bake a new batch every 4-5 days . After a week in the fridge the bacteria are starting to suffer and will not be as strong and active when introduced into the next batch . A short generation cycle will let you go on making yogurt with the same culture for dozens of generations . Sugar quantity . This is my own personal guess based on bread making , etc. . A little sugar will boost the bacteria , but too much will slow it down . I use 2 tbsp per litre of milk and it works very well . Tart with a hint of sweet . Up to double this amount should be fine but more could affect it . Like I say I 'm guessing here but it seems to make sense . Two final notes . The " water " that separates out of the yogurt is whey protein -- generally seen as a very healthy thing to eat . A firm yogurt will let you pour it or spoon it off if you do n't like it , but there 's no reason not to just scoop it out with the rest or stir it back in . Fat content is important , but the milk protein is what will make or break the yogurt . I have made a very thick yogurt with skim milk powder or skim milk with added skim milk powder . Soy milk , which has quite a bit less fat than whole milk , makes a very solid yogurt . It 's all about solids . Of course a > 3 . x % whole fat milk will produce a tastier yogurt , because milk fat is oh so tasty ! Further reading from an industry source : <URL> Additional tips : <URL>
Short answer : Brining after boiling wo n't do much ( if anything ) , and you probably do n't want to boil all parts of the chicken anyway . One primary purpose of brining is to hydrate the cells of the muscle tissue before cooking , which allows the cells to hold on to more moisture during the cooking process via denaturation of the proteins . If you cook the meat first , then the heat will permanently denature the proteins first , so the brine will essentially be useless . The reason why you want to pre-cook chicken wings is that ( a ) they have a lot of fat which melts off into the cooking liquid , and ( b ) they have a good amount of connective tissue ( collagen ) which needs to be cooked low and slow to soften into delicious gelatin . Most of the other parts of the chicken do n't have nearly as much fat and collagen , so boiling them would likely only serve to overcook them .
For Easter , a friend and I cooked rabbits . We marinated for 72 hours in buttermilk , dijon , rosemary , and sage ( NO SALT ) . Then boned them out and spatchcocked them ( sort of a butterfly , with skewers to hold the flat spread out shape ) , seasoned , and roasted at 350 until done . Moist , flavourful . Served with parsnip puree , rosemary potatoes roasted in duck fat , and sorry but I forget the other veg we used .
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
The exact time and temperature will depend on the size of the breasts and your oven . You should always use a meat thermometer to verify that the chicken is cooked all the way through . For breasts , you want to make sure they 're around 160 F on the inside ( they 're actually safe to eat a bit earlier , but 160 F leaves you with a margin of error ) . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , you 'll need to cut them open to make sure they 're not pink on the inside , and the juices run clear . I 'd start the oven at about 375 F , and start checking on them after about 30 mins .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
end question
start question
How can I remove mold stains from a pan ?
I use bleach to remove mold and mildew stains from my bathroom and while the process would be gross , I would think that once thoroughly washed the bleach would n't cause any harmful effects to the pan or to future snacking humans .
In terms of commercial food processing , there are more efficient ways to extract gelatin than slow-simmering the bones , generally by treating the organic matter with a strong acid prior to boiling , then using commercial evaporation and filtering equipment which is far more efficient than anything a home or even restaurant cook has access to . According to <URL> ( see the " Gelatin Manufacture " section ) it can also be first treated with a strong base solution before acidifying it , which lowers the isoionic point . It 's kind of difficult to explain exactly what that is if you do n't have a background in organic chemistry ; technically speaking it 's a relationship between pH and electrical charge - but applied to extraction it refers to the pH at which the solubility of a protein ( such as gelatin ) is the lowest . Lowering this is a good thing in extraction , because it means that the gelatin will be easier to filter out in an acidic solution . Thus I have to point out the question is actually a bit contradictory ; if your goal is the extraction of gelatin then you want to decrease the solubility . But I think this is all going to be beside the point anyway , because none of this applies to stock making ; the goal in food processing is to extract the pure gelatin , not to get a flavourful stock . When making a stock you definitely do n't want to use an acid solution , it 's going to ruin the flavour . Realistically , when it comes to stock-making , especially at home , the only way you 're going to be able to extract more gelatin is to simmer it longer . That 's it . When the bones break without any resistance , that means you 've denatured all the collagen and you 've got all the gelatin you 're going to get . I would n't worry about solubility because typically in stock-making you 're already using more than enough water to dissolve all the gelatin that you could possibly hope to extract .
Assuming that you want to serve the casserole hot and the streusel crispy , keep the casserole and the streusel separate until almost serving time . This means you will have to bake the streusel on a cookie sheet until crisp and ready , then let them cool uncovered and transport them in a separate container . Your casserole base contains eggs , so it must be baked . You want to avoid a " skin " or " crust " , so cover with foil at least part of the time or even the whole 30 minutes . ( Depends a bit on how wet the mash is . ) Depending on the logistics at the destination , either keep your casserole warm in your carrier or pop it in the microwave for a bit to gently ( ! ) reheat it . The right time to put the streusel on top of the base is a short while before serving - long enough that the hot mash can warm them up and that they can get a tiny bit soft at the bottom ( more authentic ! ) while staying crisp on top . A few minutes should suffice , but a quarter of an hour would still be fine . But keep the casserole uncovered .
If your " whisk ( e ) y stones " are actually stones , they are pourous all the way through . You 'll need the thouroughly saturate them with water and a bit of vodka to rid yourself of the water - and alcohol-soluble flavors that have been absorbed . If you do n't have the patience for the repeated soakings that will be required , I had good luck putting mine through a self-cleaning cycle in my oven . You have to make sure that they 're completely dried out or they 'll crack/explode .
TLDR ; Yes . Sugar does inhibit growth of mold . How does this work ? Several reasons : Sugar prohibits growth through osmosis / dehydration . " The most notable is simple osmosis , or dehydration . Salt or sugar , whether in solid or aqueous form , attempts to reach equilibrium with the salt or sugar content of the food product with which it is in contact . " Source : <URL> Sugar weakens the molecular structure of pathogens ' DNA Salt and sugar 's other antimicrobial mechanisms include interference with a microbe 's enzyme activity and weakening the molecular structure of its DNA . Sugar may also provide an indirect form of preservation by serving to accelerate accumulation of antimicrobial compounds from the growth of certain other organisms . Source : <URL>
Sauté / stir fry : When you 're just below the smoke point of an oil , it 'll shimmer ... but that 's only useful for a precise temperature if you know what the smoke point for that oil is , and you actually want to use oil for cooking . Grilling : I ca n't remember if it was an episode of Good Eats or on Alton Brown 's first book that he recommended that if you had an automatic ice maker , so had consistent sized ice cubes , that you time how long it takes them to melt at different temperatures , so you could use that to judge how hot a grill is . Grilling / Pans in general : For grilling , and campfire cooking , I 've always gone with the hand near the cooking surface to gauge how hot it is , but I do n't know that it 's all that accurate ... and people have a different tolerance for pain , so you 'd have to do some tests to calibrate . It does n't work as well for cooking on a stove except for cast iron ; I suspect it requires a more radiant heat source . Deep / shallow frying : I like the wooden spoon test -- dip something wooden into the hot oil , and as there 's moisture in the wood , you should see small bubbles rapidly form if it 's hot enough . Searing : Listen as you add food ... After you 've added a bit of oil , touch the food to the pan , and ou should hear sizzling . If it does n't , pull it back and wait a few more minutes for it to heat . * Breadmaking ** : If I need warm water for making bread , I 'll run the hot tap against the inside of my wrist ... once it feels slightly warm , but not hot , it 's just above body temperature , so should be good ( around 38-40 ° C / 100-105 ° F ) None of these are going to be completely precise , but there 's lots of ways to gauge temperature other than a thermometer .
" Instant " coffee typically is disolved in hot water , so I 'd think that just stirring it into a cold product would be less than ideal . You might try <URL> ( as you 're adding sugar anyway ) or try steeping the instant coffee in hot milk or water first , cool it down , then mixing that into the yoghurt .
If you want to be really lazy about it , just get yourself a <URL> . Pour in the soup , the fat will rise to the top , and you can do what you want with it ( i.e. dump it ) . If you 're reading this in an emergency , you can do this with just a strainer . You 'll get better results if you chill the strainer before each skim , i.e. by rinsing it with very cold water . The fat will tend to congeal on the cold strainer the same way it congeals when it 's actually chilled . I 've also heard that the fat will cling to certain leafy vegetables , like lettuce . If you have a lettuce head kicking around , try peeling off a leaf and dusting the top of the pan with it .
I use my roasting pan ( either with or without a rack ) at least once a week to roast vegetables - either for salads , for sides , or ( for instance with pumpkin for soup ) to get a slightly different and more concentrated flavour before blending the veges . I find the vegetables cook more evenly in a roasting pan than a baking pan - perhaps the higher sides help to create a kind of microclimate around the veges ?? Not sure about that one . When making roast vege salads , you can take the pan straight out of the oven and take advantage of the high sides to mix your other ingredients in ( pasta , greens , dressing etc ) then serve from there if no one is looking at your serving dish ! I also use it as a water bath when cooking souffles , puddings etc. .
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
Chickpea puree with sesame paste would be hummus . Hummus can be served warm or cold , so you could serve it straight out of the can if you wanted . To warm it up , I 'd avoid heating it with any kind of direct heat , but it should be fine microwaved briefly . When it is served warm , it 's not hot by any means , so a gentle heating is all that 's needed .
You should n't heat a non stick pan without the oil , because it is too easy to overheat it and ruin the coating . So , I put oil inside first , and tell by the state of the oil . It smells , looks and flows different when it is hot enough . You can also learn to judge if there is sufficient heat when you hold your palm at a given distance above the pan , but in my experience , you learn to judge by the oil before you have gotten good enough to keep the same distance and to distinguish " enough " from " not enough " heat . If you do n't have enough experience to know when the oil is ready , you have to do it repeatedly until you learn it . It takes a few less-than-great meals if you do it purely by trial and error , and goes better if you use an infrared thermometer . You can also try floating cubes of stale white bread and watch their browning behavior , but I find this method too involved logistically - you have to have the bread , cut it , then deal with messy pieces of oily bread , and end up with slowly charring crumbles in your pan .
From a cooking perspective any imitation sauce or marinade is never going to deliver the quality that venison has to deliver . We have a massive deer farm close and the price is still ridiculous . My suggestion is that you find a good butcher that will age beef for you on the bone , or you could age it yourself if you have a climate control area to keep it at the correct temperature . Anything over 30 days on the bone will start to give you the gaming flavour you are craving . Nothing is going to match deer , but aged beef or really any type of cattle ( eg buffalo etc ) will give you the gaminess if it is aged . Restaurants are getting up to 180 days , which I could only imagine would melt in your mouth but the flavour would be intense .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
When I cook zucchuni I slightly scrape the skin with help of a knife to reduce the bitterness . Also for some meals prepared by mashing , I peel the skin off .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
As posted in comments by members of the community ( and adding my own ) , several tips can help you get good warm tea in your thermos at wake-up : Choose loose leaves instead of tea bags to avoid tea dust that would overinfuse your tea in the thermos . The small amount there is in tea bags , is heavy enough to sink to the bottom very quickly , so if you pour the tea slowly into your thermos , you can discard it . You can also rinse the tea before brewing with cold water to help expel any excess dust , or ( as done in many tea-drinking countries ) throw out the first cup of tea made with new tea leaves . If you 're just using tea bags , why not just keep the thermos bedside and then toss the tea bag in in the morning ? You could try heating cold-infused and strained tea in the evening and put it into the thermos ; it has a brewing time of 8 to 12 hours , so you 'd have to start this around noon . If you have a microwave close enough to your bed , you could also use cold infusion to make your tea during the night and then give it a blast in the microwave in the morning .
Beetroots do have an earthy smell , that 's normal and can get stronger if you just cook them in water . I can think of two approaches to work with this : Try roasting them in an oven ( optional : wrapped in some aluminum foil ) until tender . They will develop a sweetness whith perhaps some earthy undertones . Add an acidic component like vinager or lemon juice to the cooked beets and let rest for a few hours ( or pickle them ) . But you might consider how/where the beets were grown : If the " soil " smell is too strong , it might be because there was too much fertilizer or manure in the soil , which beets tend to absorb .
Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up ; it will attract the broken bit . Also , if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs , you should revise your cracking technique . Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface ( countertop or plate ) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl .
end question
start question
Can active dry yeast be substituted for a compressed yeast cake in baking ?
Yes , those cakes are typically 0.6 ounces , and when substituting you should use one packet of active dry yeast .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
Ingredients : Potato starch , tapioca flour , leavening ( calcium lactate [ non-dairy ] , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , cellulose gum , carbohydrate gum Ener G Egg Replacer has always worked well for me . I keep it in the house for times when I do n't have eggs on hand and want to bake something . There is also recipes like <URL> for vegan pancakes .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
From what I can find , it contains ' dough relaxers ' so you can shape the dough without it springing back . It also claims you do n't need to let it rise , but it then tells you to bake your pizza for 30 minutes ! So it essentially rises in the oven . Compare this to ' proper ' dough which you let rise for a couple of hours , pull into shape and then bake in a screaming hot oven for 5 minutes tops . It strikes me that using pizza yeast is ' pizza for dummies ' ; claiming ' it stops it rising too much ' is nonsense because if the amount of yeast is correct in your recipe you control the rise anyway . So it depends on whether you like doing things easy or doing things right . You can bet your pepperoni slices they do n't use ' pizza yeast ' in Naples . Personally I cheat just a little and use dried fast-action yeast as it has a longer shelf-life and you do n't fuss around proving it , and my pizzas come out great .
Yes . You can also substitute 1 cup molasses with 3/4 cup packed brown sugar + 1/4 water , or 1 cup pure maple syrup , or 1 cup dark corn syrup .
I presume you 're talking about active dried yeast . In that case , the granules of packaged yeast have some nutritive content to them , so what you observe when you add warm water is a weak form of priming . Priming is the addition of both warm water and a food source , typically sugar or flour , to dried yeast with the goal of ' waking-up ' the yeast from their dormant , packaged state . The warm water dissolves some of the food in the granules and warms the yeast up to a temperature which is favourable to fermentation .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
Yes , those cakes are typically 0.6 ounces , and when substituting you should use one packet of active dry yeast .
I ca n't see any possible way it did n't reach 138F inside after that length of time ! I think you just had way too much liquid .
First off , it 's good to understand the difference between active dry yeast and rapid rise yeast . Active dry yeast is a larger granule of yeast in which the outer shell is composed of mostly dead cells entombing the dormant nougaty goodness inside . It has to be proofed to seperate out all the cells and rehydrate the interior active cells . Rapid rise yeast is a typically a combination of 2 different strains of yeast ( so those with a very discerning palate might be able to tell the difference , I 've never really tried ) . The granules of yeast are smaller and dried slower to preserve more yeast cells . Ascorbic acid is also added to push the yeast into overdrive a little faster . A great video that helped me a lot is <URL> I have noticed before issues with Rapid Rise yeast not proofing very well the second time around . Apparently it 's designed to give you one really good proof and then die out ( play hard and die young ) . Instant yeast however is Rapid Rise yeast without the hardcore party attitude . It 's what they use at the King Arthur bakery test kitchen , so that 's good enough for me ! They say to use them interchangeably , but many other sites I see show a difference of about 20 % . 2 Tbsp Active Dry yeast ≈ 1.6 Tbsp Instant Yeast
You can proof your yeast to see if its still alive : Heat approx . 1/2 cup ( 100ml ) of water to about 115 ° F ( 45 ° C ) . Add a tablespoon ( 10g ) or so of sugar , stir . Water should still be above 105 ° F ( 40 ° C ) . Add a teaspoon of yeast , stir . Within 5 minutes or so , the mixture should be thoroughly foamy . If its not thoroughly foamy , yeast is bad ( dead ) , dispose of it . ( Note : Metric conversions above are rounded , just like the imperial units . Do n't use these conversions for baking , but proofing yeast does n't need anything exact . )
<URL> describes the process by which yeast is commercially prepared in good detail for an overview . There are several stages of cultivation and growing and increasing the yeast biomass , culminating as its final steps : Treatments and packaging The yeast in the final trade bioreactor is concentrated by centrifugation and finally harvested by a filter press or a rotary vacuum filter , until it contains 27 -- 33 % of dry cell mass . The yeast cake is blended with suitable amounts of water and emulsifiers and cutting oils ( soybean or cottonseed oil ) to obtain its extrudable form . The yeast is then packaged and shipped as compressed fresh baker 's yeast , or thermolysed and dried to form various types of dry yeast . The dried yeast is packed under vacuum or nitrogen atmosphere . The packaging method varies among manufacturers and depends on the type of yeast product . Note that this process requires assorted items of industrial or laboratory equipment which may not be suitable to the home environment , including centrifuges and filter presses or vacuuum filters . If you really only want to preserve your starter strain without maintaining an active starter , simply drying a sample and then storing it in the freezer may be a better option . This process is described at <URL> .
Of course you can use jaggery in all of these recipes or in any recipe in lieu of sugar , but like all substitutions , they may not be perfect or one to one . The outcome and flavor profile will be slightly different . Consider what jaggery is made of ( per the infamous wikipedia ) : Up to 50 % sucrose up to 20 % invert sugars moisture content of up to 20 % remainder made up of other insoluble matter such as wood ash , proteins and bagasse fibers The parts that are not sucrose are the parts that are interesting . How will they affect your recipe ? What adjustments should you make ? Invert sugars taste sweet , but are even more hydrophyllic than sucrose , and interfere with crystal formation of the sucrose . This may be an advantage or a disadvantage depending on the recipe . Candies dependant on sugar crystalization will be trickiest to manage . Moisture means water , you might have to reduce longer or reduce water content elsewhere in the recipe , or it could be a non-issue . Other content will lead to the unique flavor profile , which may be why you want to use it in the first place In regards to the specific foods you have mentioned : Gajar ka halwa -- You would have to adjust the ratios , but no reason it would not work based on how this dessert is described in the wikipedia article Barfi -- I do n't have any personal experience with barfi to know how much it depends on crystalization versus denaturing of the milk proteins for its texture -- you would have to experiment . The descriptions I have read sound like it is more about the milk . Ready made custard powder -- I do n't know what ingredients are in the " ready made custard powder " -- the result would certainly be safe . Assuming the custard powder contains proteins and starch which thicken the custard when you add it to milk or water , then I see no reason why the jaggery should not work , although the result may be somewhat less thickened . Milk tea - no issues other than the flavor profile Cake -- with appropriate adjustments ( mostly for the water content ) it should work fine , except possibly those made by the creaming method Note that everything I have written is based on the science , and internet descriptions of local food items I am not familiar with . You should also consult local recipe books , and find variations which use jaggery -- or the lack thereof . That should give you some idea what is common , and how recipes using jaggery vary from those that do n't for the same item .
I 'm writing this so it helps someone else . I decided to freeze my fondant because I did n't have time to air dry the fondant like @Sunishtha Singh suggested . I did n't want the fondant to become too dry either by adding the tylose/CMC powder or use the gum paste/satin ice because personally , I prefer the flavour of fondant better than gumpaste . So , I found <URL> link and <URL> one and decided to follow the instructions . But I did add a bit of guess work and common sense and instead of freezing the fondant panels for 15-20 minutes , I only froze for 10 minutes and did n't open the fridge/freezer until the 10 minutes were finished . I also put the panels in the freezer at the same time and worked very quickly to attach the panels once the 10 minutes were finished . Once I attached the panels , I switched on the aircon but not for more than 15-20 minutes and it seemed to be fine , even considering that it had been raining all day . I do n't know what role does the fridge play in this but I have a frost free fridge . I also used black fondant for the panels and even though I personally find it much more moist than the white fondant , the panels attached nicely and the shoebox looked very smooth , at least from the sides . I hope this helps someone and I give the fondant freezing a thumbs up :)
Peanut and canola are vegetable oils . Vegetable oil is a catch-all term , it 's not asking for a product labelled " vegetable oil " although you can buy it in the store . Oils labelled vegetable oil are blends and can be any proportion of things like canola ( rapeseed ) , peanut , corn , sunflower , etc. . Just do n't use Olive oil , it is a vegetable oil but it wo n't be good for cakes ! Different vegetable oils will give different properties although most will give you about the same result . Canola is flavorless and relatively light while peanut is a bit richer and , well , peanut-y . The differences in your cake will be subtle , however .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
<URL> I found some baking times for specific sized cakes . For me , I just use the toothpick method . If it 's a spongecake , you can check by pressing down on it and if it " bounces " back it 's done .
There are three major things that will cause collapsed yeast raised breads : Underdeveloped gluten ( possibly from insufficient kneading ) , which does n't create enough of the gluten network to hold the gas from the yeast , especially during oven spring . This may be exacerbated by using low-protein flours , which do not generate as much gluten as high-protein flours ( called strong flours in Europe ) . This tends not to manifest as a collapse , so much , as a failure to rise . Considerable overkneading , to the point where the gluten network begins to break down , and can not hold the gas ( this is quite unlikely , unless machine kneaded ) Over-proofing ( allowing to rise or ferment too long ) , which creates more gas than the gluten cells can hold , leading to their rupture and collapse when the heat of the oven causes expansion and oven spring . This leads to collapse of the loaf . Without more information , it is difficult to tell which of these you are experiencing .
end question
start question
Should I let stock cool with the bones/veg still in it ?
You need to strain the stock and cool it until it 's 40 degrees F. or below before you refrigerate it . Leaving it to cool overnight on the stove is going to create a bacteria cesspool . The temperature danger zone is between 40 and 140 degrees . This is the range that is prime for the growth of bacteria . Food safety guidelines require that it cool to 70 degrees or below within 2 hours and then below 40 degrees within another 4 hours time . Total maximimum time that it should take to get to 40 degrees is 6 hours . Even if you get it cooled down now with all of the vegetbles and bones in it , the problem will be that you have to heat it back up in the morning to strain it as it 's going to gelatinze overnight ( provided it 's been cooked long enough to extract a good amount of gelatin - usually about 4-6 hours for a good chicken stock and 12-16 hours for veal/beef stock ) . When it 's reheated you 're running the risk that the carrots and other vegetables will break up into smaller bits and end up clouding the stock . Strain it and cool it down tonight before putting in the refrigerator . To cool quickly , either divide amongst several pans ( greater surface area is better than depth as it will dispel heat quicker ) or if you do n't have a BIG pot of stock , strain it and put it in an ice bath ( water and ice cubes ) in your plugged kitchen sink . If you make stock a lot , you can save plastic milk jugs and fill them 3/4 with water and keep in the freezer . After straining the stock you can place one of those inside the pot of stock to also help cool it from the inside out . In the morning you can then skim the layer of congealed fat from the top . If it 's chicken stock , save the fat for frying potatoes with extra flavor !
You can store it with the stems in a glass of water , like a bouquet , preferably not in the refrigerator . A few black spots that are n't moldy or slimy does n't make it totally unusable , but it is n't very appealing to eat .
No , you do n't have to freeze it at all . The recipe you linked is indeed for puff pastry . It is rather tedious to create it , so it is available in supermarkets as a pre-fabricated food , just like pizza dough and other doughs . But it does n't have a long shelf life in the fridge , so it is sold frozen . The recipe assumes that you will buy it frozen , and warns you to let it come to room temperature before you start baking . If you are making your own , the end product can be used in cookies immediately . Just pay attention to follow proper technique and work with a very cold dough and butter while making the puff pastry . The link you posted probably explains it - if not , search for better instructions .
What is wrong with a regular ice cube ? As you state that the tea is not yet ready , you just use slightly less water and then add the ice cube , which has a fixed temperature . I use this for large scale ice tea production . As I use 1:1 hot water : ice cubes I simply brew a double strong tea .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
Brief answer : no , you should n't be worried . Slightly longer answer : you only should be worried if your stock/broth displays characteristics of unskimmed stock ( i.e. , cloudiness , particles , or odd color ) and that bothers you in your particular application for the stock/broth . Long answer : There are lots of things that can reduce the amount of apparent foam , including : Roasting , poaching , or otherwise cooking meats or bones before making broth/stock Boiling the liquid ( which will sometimes break up the foam before it becomes noticeable enough to skim ) Putting lots of floating items into the stock at the outset , especially vegetables that may absorb or break up the foam on the surface Starting with warmer water and/or heating the stock quickly initially Different types of bones or cuts of meat will produce varying amounts of foam With the exception of pre-cooking the meat , most of these wo n't actually result in less foam/scum in the final product . They just will cause the foam to break up more and be dissolved into the stock/broth so it is n't as noticeable during the initial cooking and ca n't be skimmed easily . ( Boiling the liquid will in fact increase the amount of dissolved particulates , which is why many recipes insist on keeping the heat to a very low simmer . ) If you really want to skim the maximum amount of foam , then start with cold water , heat very slowly , wait to add vegetables and other floating items until after skimming is complete , and never have the temperature above a very slow simmer . But ultimately the question is whether you should care about removing the foam . There 's an <URL> that addresses this point . Very briefly , there are three main negatives when you do n't skim : Stock will appear cloudy and/or grayish . This is n't a problem when you 're making a hearty soup in the end , but if you plan to serve the broth alone or with minimal ingredients , it may be nicer to have a clear stock with a nice color . ( This can become more noticeable if you plan to refrigerate the broth/stock before using again . The particles will precipitate out and form some grayish stuff , some of which floats near the top at the boundary of the fat layer and some of which will sink to the bottom . These larger particles may not redissolve completely when reheated and may be more noticeable in a clear broth . ) If you plan on significant reduction of the stock to make a demiglace or something , the particles will be concentrated and may mar the texture and flavor of sauces made from it . Most home cooks do n't do such extreme reductions , so this is unlikely to be relevant . Unskimmed stocks/broths tend to spoil slightly faster , and the dissolved particles will acquire an " off taste " a bit faster . This is generally not a problem if you plan to use the liquid within a day or two . ( And , generally speaking , this is best practice for food safety : broths and stocks are excellent growth media for bacteria , even in the fridge , and should optimally be used or frozen within 2-3 days . ) If you do n't care about these , there 's no reason to worry , whether your liquid foams or not . And if you do care about these , you can also clarify your stock afterward ( e.g. , with egg white ) .
Once my starter was established ( started with organic whole wheat flour ) I 've been feeding it with unbleached AP flour ( King Arthur ) and that 's worked fine . I do this simply because it 's the flour I buy in large quantities to stock my pantry , and so it 's generally the cheapest flour I have on hand . If you want to " switch over " to a different flour you can always scoop out a bit of starter a couple days before you bake , and feed it with the different flour . Start with a small amount so you do n't have to throw any away ; just double the volume with each feeding . I do n't usually bother , though .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
This step is not about food safety , it 's about consistency and in fact about three properties of your jam : Jam comes in a wide variation of consistencies , one parameter is " stiffness " , another " water content " and a third " smoothness " . In baking , you want smooth ( no lumps ) jam that is speadable enough to form a thin layer ( especially if used as a " glue " ) , yet thick enough not to " bleed " into your baked layers . What you basically do is play with the <URL> in your jam - a warm pectin solution ( aka jam ) is soft , cold pectin solution is solid , softening goes quickly , re-solidification takes some time . But enough " kitchen chemistry " , here 's the practical approach : Warming your jam makes it liquid enough to be easily spreadable and , if necessary , to strain out any lumps of fruit . Sometimes a good stir can give similar results , but stirred jam wo n't solidify again afterwards . Boiling the jam lets water evaporate , thus thickening or " hardening " the jam ( once it solidifies again ) . This can be advisable if you have a rather thin or soft ( " watery " ) jam in the beginning . Especially under marzipan you want no excess liquid in the jam to avoid softening the marzipan layer or cause it to slip . The boiling is optional , it needs some experience to determine whether it 's really necessary for the specific brand of jam and the specific use . Cooling down the jam again has two reasons : Not all baked goods take well to being drenched with hot liquid and the possible thickness of a layer is partly determined by the consistency of the jam . Especially sponges etc. tend to soak up liquid jam , resulting in a coloured stripe of dough instead of a distinct layer of jam . ( Note that there is also the technique of brushing hot baked goods like danishes with hot apricot jam for a glossy sheen , but that 's not what we are talking about here ) But you also do n't want to wait until the pectin has solidified the jam again , because then you would be back to square one . Depending on the intended use , you let the jam cool until it has reached the desired consistency - still rather liquid under marzipan ( as it will solidify on the cake quickly ) or almost solid but easily spreadable for a distinct layer in your sponge that still can hold the cake layers together . Note that most recipes say " cool " but not " cool completely " .
<URL> , but even long after that , they 're still safe to consume . They just might change colour or flavour . If your tea has an expiration date then it 's just for best quality , not safety . I 've personally found tea bags sitting at the back of the pantry that were more than 3 years old , the packaging had even started to fade , and the tea was still fine . I just had to steep it for a little longer .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
I very quickly found nutritional information for storebought ( Swanson ) <URL> and <URL> . As you 'd expect , neither one contains all that much protein . The stock does contain substantially more : 4g per cup compared to 1g - this should also be expected , since stock has some gelatin in it , and gelatin is mostly protein . Of course , it 's commercially made ; I imagine you 'd be hard-pressed to find good nutritional data for homemade stock and broth .
Well , if it comes directly from Southern Italy you could use it to make some Southern Italy specialty like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , all of which require candied fruits . Traditionally pastiera is done with a mix of candied citron and orange peel plus candied pumpkin ( cucuzzata ) which however is not the easiest ingredient to find . Citrus is definitely a must for sfogliatelle . There are two types of sfogliatelle ricce and frolle . Sfogliatelel ricce are better tasting in my opinion , but can be challenging to do at home . <URL> Sfogliatella riccia Sfogliatella frolla Cannoli traditionally only have candied orange peels , but I guess citron would do well in them anyway . Cannolo siciliano Note : the pastry in the Wikipedia photo for pastiera seems way too thick and crumbly . The pastry should be very thin , there just to keep everything together , and should not be the dominant taste .
An0r4k , I assume that you 're making a cup of black ( ? ) tea and steeping some lemongrass in it . If so , perhaps you should make the black tea very weak as its tannins might be amplifying the ( pleasant ) slight bitterness of the lemongrass to distasteful levels . Alternatively , if you are steeping the lemongrass in hot water , try removing the outer layers of the lemongrass stalk . If they are old or tough , this can increase the bitterness of the drink . In any case , check that there is n't any dirt trapped between the layers of the lemongrass . Some recipies call for putting the lemongrass into water , bringing it to a boil and then letting it simmer for 10-15 minutes . I have n't tried this . Even if it does produce a smoother taste , then the boiling might well degradge any health-giving nutrients from the lemongrass .
Roasting the bones first will add a deeper flavor . The roast flavor may or may not be desired , it depends on your preferences . This is from the article I 've posted below : " Roasting caramelizes them , heightening sweetness and deepening flavor . But any blackening will make meat stock bitter . ' You do n't want that burned bone thing , ' cautions Keller . " <URL>
Any halfway competent chef should indeed be tasting . The only way to know whether you 're putting up good food is to check it yourself - and you 'd better be consistent if you want to continue getting paid for it . That 's not to say that all chefs do , nor that there 's any one standard for how frequently to taste or what method should be used . It 's pretty obvious that using your hands to taste or double-dipping is frowned on ... but shortcuts do happen when it 's the middle of the rush and you have 30 things to be doing at once . The best practice I 've personally seen in a commercial kitchen was to have a large set of spoons at each station , kept with the " business end " submerged in hot water with a mild sanitizer solution . Each chef also carried a few clean towels which they changed out copiously throughout the evening ( these have a million uses , from wiping hands dry to cleaning plate rims to handling hot pan handles ) . When tasting , we 'd grab a spoon , tap off excess water , wipe with a clean towel if necessary , take a small taste , and discard . This got to be as much of a habit as washing your hands after handling raw meat or wiping down your cutting board . The used spoons would be collected and washed regularly along with used pans and so on , then returned to the line . With a system like this there 's minimal risk for contamination and relatively little waste , except for frequent washing . At home , you can play things a bit looser , unless you like washing all of your spoons every night . Double-dipping is n't a big concern unless you 're ill , in which case you should n't really be cooking for people . You 're probably introducing your friends and family to just as much contamination in the form of dust and such simply by having them in your home . EDIT : I agree with Jefromi 's point in comments , so I want to emphasize this further . Safety aside , I strongly believe that tasting is necessary to make you a better cook . It teaches you how to make corrections on the fly and balance flavors , rather than simply following a recipe . As a matter of fact , even if you 're following a recipe , you will need to account for variation in things like produce . Fruits vary in their flavor depending on how ripe they are , where they were grown , whether it was a good season ... The vegetables that I get at my local market may be a slightly different variety from yours ... Meats vary widely depending on how the animal is fed and raised , even if you 're using the same cuts . Even when using packaged ingredients , you ca n't guarantee complete consistency unless you use the exact brand as written in a recipe . ( And I dare say that if your recipes uses only packaged ingredients , you can do much better . ) Recipes can not account for this sort of variation in anything but the broadest strokes . It 's up to you to balance all of this , plus the preferences of yourself and your guests . If you 're only tasting when you 've finished cooking , it 's probably too late to correct any problems . Like any skill , cooking ability is improved by practice and feedback . Tasting as you go provides you with immediate feedback on how the dish tastes and what it needs , rather than just at the very end when you sit down to eat . Learning how flavors interact , how much seasoning is enough , and so on are fundamentals . They 're what help you get creative , go beyond cooking someone else 's dishes , and start coming up with your own . So : yes , you should taste , and you should taste often . There are many ways to deal with safety concerns , but there is no other way to get better at fixing your mistakes before they hit the table .
From the description " Rock-solid " you guess correctly that you have overcooked your jam mixture . The process of overcooking your jam mixture results in most of the water content evaporating . In candy terms , your jam is probably somewhere between Hard-Ball stage to Caramelized stage . For jelly/jam you want the temperature around 220 degree F. Hard ball stage is about 250 degree F. Depending on how far your " jam " is into these stages you may be able to save your " jam " by introducing more water back into it . Try and out a small portion of it into a sauce pan and adding a little bit of water to it . If you are able to turn that mixture into something resembling jam by adding water , that means you have n't cooked it beyond saving and you can do that to the rest of your jam . Note that fruit flavors are volatile so cooking further will result in the blackberry flavors deteriorating . Otherwise treat your jam mixture as a candy .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
Most of the ice creams I 've made have been custard-based , meaning that egg yolks are cooked together with cream and sugar . The mixture is chilled and then churned . For a custard-style ice cream recipe including cocoa powder , the cocoa would likely be dissolved during the cooking step . If you are following a no-cook recipe that includes cocoa powder , I would at least use a whisk to mix the cocoa in as thoroughly as possible . However , dissolving the cocoa in a hot liquid would likely result in a smoother ice cream . Not sure what kind of recipe you are following , but you could probably heat the milk/cream , stir in the cocoa powder to dissolve , then chill the mixture before churning it .
There is n't anything that is necessarily " bad " or should always be avoided in stock , but some ingredients have qualities you wo n't always want . Dark greens ( spinach , kale , etc ) can make a stock bitter and of course greenish in color . Cabbage also can impart a overwhelming bitterness . Potatoes can cloud a stock from their starchiness , so they are not good when you want clear stock for something like a soup or consomme . Tomatoes may overpower flavors in a light stock , but are a critical component in most dark stocks ( browning tomato paste improves the color ) Onion skins add a deeper flavor , but yellow or red skins can change the color of a light colored stock dramatically . Skin and extra fat from the meat used is sometimes avoided to reduce the amount of skimming required later on ( I personally do n't skim , the extra fat does n't bother me ) The bones of very oily fish ( mackerel , salmon , and trout for example ) are usually avoided because they can make a stock too strong in specific flavors to work in any other dish . Oily fish stocks also tend to have an unpleasant odor .
end question
start question
What to look for in a pot ?
Modifying your original terms : Size : 2-3 quart/liter . I consider 2.5 quarts to be ideal . Material : Two options : hard-anodized aluminum nonstick , OR stainless-steel interior/exterior . With stainless , it should have either an encapsulated aluminum disk base or a tri-ply construction ( aluminum layered with stainless ) Bottom : Thick is good , and you absolutely must have aluminum here for conduction Handle : stainless is good , as long as it stays relatively cool . The handle absolutely must be riveted on , with thick rivets . Screws , glue , or welded handles do not last long-term . Tack-welded handles are the bane of the restaurant I work for right now ; we 've had several handles snap off in the last year . Additional things to look for : Weight : HEAVY . You want fairly thick cookware for even heating , but most of that weight should be from thickness of the aluminum disk . Design : A flared lip around the pot , to facilitate clean pouring . Shape : I 'm partial to shallow designs , which flare out at the top . Although it 's nonstick and not stainless , I love my <URL> for it 's extra-flared design . This lets it transmit heat more efficiently from the range , and allows it to safely hold a larger capacity of food . It also allows for faster and cleaner reduction of sauces . Lid : TEMPERED GLASS with a handle on top , and a flange to help seal tightly on the pot/pan . Tempered glass is very durable and lets you see the progress of your cooking without releasing the steam . The handle also remains cool , so you do n't burn yourself on it ; this is the second problem I have with solid stainless lids on many premium cookware lines ( All Clad , and most manufacturers ' tri-ply products ) .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
There are lots of styles of bread , which of course different people have different preferences for , and which lend themselves to different applications . First , what do the holes indicate ? The holes are pockets or cells in the gluten network in the loaf -- so the stronger the gluten network , the larger the holes can expand during proofing . similarly , the more active the yeast , or the longer the proof , the larger the holes will have the potential to expand . So large holes tend to be found in breads with strong gluten networks , which have longer proofing times . These loaves will have chewier texture , and yeastier flavor , which can be very delicious . For other applications , such as a typical US-style sandwich bread , the desire is for a more tender product , which is indicative of less gluten development ; also , large holes would let spreads or condiments soak through the bread more easily , which is not so desirable in a sandwich to be eaten out of hand . So these loaves are typically ones with smaller holes . So the holes are either a factor themselves ( as in sandwich bread ) , or indicative of other qualities of the loaf ( as in so-called artisan style bread ) -- but either way , they are a very visible indicator of the nature of the loaf , and so getting the desired holes will help get the desired loaf qualities . I am sure there are many more qualified bread experts who will give you a more detailed answer ...
The bowl is n't absolutely essential ; it 's part of the aesthetic . The shape does serve a purpose , as most of them have nicely curved bottoms that will minimize the chance of the powder from clumping near the edge of the bowl . I 've used a normal whisk when preparing " matcha latte " drinks for a client of mine back in the day . There 's an advantage to having the 80-120 " tate " ( bristle ? ) because they make it easier to break up beads that form as moisture contacts the tea . But a normal culinary whisk will do the trick , perhaps with a bit more work . I do n't see how the silicone brush would help whisking ; they tend to be pretty floppy ( and mine has occasionally had some of the silicone strands break off when I 've used it for brushing food ) .
This is perfectly normal for waxy potatoes ; their skins are soft and easily scraped off , especially if freshly harvested and handled roughly . I saw it just the other day with a batch of new potatoes fresh from the CSA . The potatoes were just fine . If you see this with thick-skinned , starchy potatoes it may be a sign of fungus , especially if accompanied by dried out or roughened patches . Green colors in the peel are also a problem , because they indicate exposure to light and an elevated level of the toxin solanine . Solanine can cause upset digestion and headaches if consumed in quantity . Do n't eat potatoes that are very green .
I am answering my own question with information I have gathered after doing some of my own research . Several hand mills claim to make peanut butter , but the mill that seems to have the best public following and reviews for flour making , the <URL> , does not claim to make peanut butter in their marketing literature . I contacted the manufacturer , and got this reply : We do not recommend doing nut butters in our mill . However , we are applying for patents on a nut butter attachment for the Country Living Mill that does a superlative job . . We hope to have it available by this Fall . We have noticed that other grain mills on the market claim nut grinding ability and even show butter coming out of their mills . We have purchased these mills and tested them and quickly realized that it was an arduous task at best to produce anything resembling nut butter ... we can do the same with out mill but feel that it is misleading and certainly unfair to make such claims . Hope this helps . Of course their answer has every reason to be biased , and not tell me if there is a good peanut butter hand press available on the market . Another popular press , the <URL> claims to make creamy peanut butter with their stainless steel burrs , and one Amazon <URL> agreed it was possible , but too messy to be worth the effort . Reviews of two different griners at <URL> seem to agree with the general consensus that hand-made peanut butter is n't the state of the art ( yet ) : The nuts would n't feed , so I had to mash them into tiny bits . At this point the bits began to feed into the grinding plates . Unfortunately , those bits never exited -- even when I loosened the grinding plates . The only peanut butter that I managed to produce was the goo stuck between the plates . -- <URL> And : My test with peanuts resulted in the grinding plates clogging almost immediately , and I produced only a few flecks of peanut butter during the five minutes of grinding . Many companies claim their handmills will grind nutbutters and oily seeds , but I 've yet to see one that was n't a miserable failure in actuality . -- <URL> I have not been able to find a single first-hand account of making peanut butter with a hand mill that said it was worth it . As already mentioned , the amazon review mentioned above said it was far too messy . Many other reviews I 've found have said the end result only vaguely resembled peanut butter -- and never creamy peanut butter . In an effort to directly answer the question at hand , though , the only feature I so far have been able to find that is required specifically for peanut butter is that the mill have steel burrs , as opposed to stone which are desirable for finely ground flour , as the stone will absorb oil from nuts , causing the system to clog . EDIT : I got an additional reply from the Country Living Grain Mill manufacturers , explaining ( in no great detail ) what is required for a nut-grinder : There are a number of factors such as the mill must reduce the nuts to a manageable size prior to grinding , and propel them with enough pressure to be squeezed out between appropriately designed grinding plates . It sounds simple , but the reality is that it 's a very tricky thing to manage .
Since ovens cook by heat radiation , you want to expose as high a proportion of the surface area as possible , which is why most roasts are vaguely cubic or cylindrical in shape . Any part of the meat that 's pressed against the pan ( i.e. the bottom of the roast ) is n't going to get that nice brown crust . It 's also very important with slow-cooking methods that require you to put some liquid at the bottom of the vessel ; obviously you want as little of the meat as possible to be in the water , so that most of the work is done by steam . Tying ( or more accurately , trussing ) the meat is simply how you maintain the shape in the oven . If you do n't truss it , then you 'll not only end up with a very flat roast , you 'll also end up with uneven cooking , and only the top will be browned since there are no " sides " to speak of . It 's similar with chicken and other birds ; you truss the legs so that the oven has a chance to crisp them up on all sides , not just the top .
Look for a strong motor and thick blades . If the blades are thin , they 're likely to warp over time . The motor needs to be able to spin those blades through the liquid . Look for a thick glass container . The plastic ones are unlikely to deal with the heat of things like soups and sauces being dumped in . Check the gasket between the glass container and the piece that attaches the blades . A thin , flimsy gasket is likely to start leaking before a thicker , softer gasket . Look at the number of teeth on the connection from the motor to the blade . The more teeth , the greater the surface area being used to distribute the power to the blade mechanism and is less likely to wear out . Overall , as with many things , one of the quickest ways to tell a good one is to weigh them both . The heavier item is better . No one pays for shipping extra weight unless it 's there for a good reason . ( note that the " heavier " rule does n't apply to electronics like cellphones/computers , etc. where the cost of making it small is actually higher )
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
Cast iron is ideal , but any pot that can take the heat and has a tight lid will work . Like @talon8 said in his comment , it does n't even have to be metal . This article from <URL> specifically uses terracotta for sourdough , not cast iron . Just as an FYI , this related question deals with preheating ( for no-knead bread , not sourdough ) , and the differing answers are interesting . To me it just goes to show that bread-making does n't always have to follow super-strict rules . <URL>
In the past when I 've cooked in the ground I put rocks into the fire . Do n't really know what sort of rocks , but I 've been involved in sessions that use bricks . Point is that you needs some way to " envelope " the heat around the thing you are cooking so what we did was put the rocks into the fire to heat them up . Carefully remove the rocks before putting the lamb in and then put the hot rocks on top of the hessian covered meat before putting the dirt back on top . Let it sit for a while and you should get a much more even result
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Every tea can have potentially various grades and different teas will have different qualities . I 'm not sure what is available where you are , but if you 're fairly new to drinking loose leaf teas , I 'd for starters find a store that lets you see , smell and possibly sample various teas . Once you have a better idea of what you 're looking for , then online dealers will be easier to navigate . So , firstly , find a reputable store , one where they are knowledgeable about their product , and difference in grades . Ask to smell the teas . Please DO NOT stick your head in the tea , waft it with your hands or the lid of the tin . If you like the aroma , it 's a good starting indicator of how you 'll like the tea . Look closely , are the tea leaves fairly even in size ? An unbroken leaf is generally graded higher than a leaf that is broken/crushed . Though since you 're specifically asking about black teas , note that certain black teas are deliberately cut , to encourage a stronger flavour . If the leaves are torn , crushed , it may be a sign of a rough machine harvest , or poor handling . This could result in bitterness . The lower grades ( small crumbs and dust ) generally end up in tea bags . So , note that . Most importantly , taste it ! If the store offers a few different sampler sizes , go for that . Ask the people there , about how they 'd recommend you prepare it . And try a few different kinds and grades . Note , if you 're new to loose leaf tea , it should taste different than what you 're used to . Trust your taste buds and your nose first ... Regardless of what it looks like and the price and what the description says , if you do n't like the way it tastes &amp; smells ( which is often subjective ) the rest is pretty meaningless .
well veggie/cheese wise , i would recommend either of : Chickpeas drained in salt water and paprika and grilled in the oven for about 10 minutes Portobello mushrooms cut into large chunks fried halloumi large chunks of celery sauteed in salt pepper , and chili
Modern non-stick pans should not have problems with coatings flaking off . Spend $ 50 on a non-stick pan and it will last you for a very long time . Coatings on good pans should hold up to any non-metallic utensils . Very expensive pans suggest that you can hit them with a hammer and not hurt the surface .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
You are looking for what is called a <URL> which is essentially a bundle of herbs tied together for easy removal . There are three basic ways to do it : For herbs like thyme or sage which are on twigs , simply tie together the twigs with some food-safe string . Wrap the bundle of herbs in cheese cloth , and and tie together Use a tea ball type device to hold the herbs . When the dish is done cooking , you can then remove the herbs all in one go simply by removing the bouqet garni .
Ehow has an article on the specific dangers non-stick coatings can cause to humans and pets including fumes from heating a pan to too high a temperature , which I was unaware of . Of course , if the coating is flaking or fuzzy-looking , actual coating material , which is a carcinogen , can leach into the food cooked in the pan . Link to the Ehow article : <URL>
I have used a rice cooker lid as a replacement on an old crock pot . It has a small venting hole as you described . I have been using this lid for years now and have yet to have a dish dry out . The hole is just too small to let much water out .
end question
start question
Why is 180 degrees C so common in recipes ?
Ovens are by their nature a high-heat cooking method , and thus create a temperature gradient in the food . The outside of the item is the hottest , because it is in contact with the hot air , and exposed to the radiant ( infrared ) heat coming from the oven walls , ceiling and floor . Heat from the outside then conducts into the inside overtime . The effect of this is that the surface of the food will be the hottest , and the center the coolest. , 180 C ( 350 F ) is a moderate oven . It balances : Cooking the food through Overcooking the outside It is suitable for a wide range of baked goods and other dishes , although often within limits ( especially for non-baked goods ) you can trade temperature and time off . Note that a single oven can only have one temperature , and a moderate oven is good for many cakes and cookies ; for baking and heating through casseroles ; for roasting root vegetables ; for maintaining a braise ; and for roasting many meats ; and many other tasks . If you want to have multiple items in the oven at the same time , it is a good temperature to choose that will give good results for a wide variety of items , even if it is not ideal for every item . Still , it is not ideal for every cooking technique and food item . Low and slow roasting ( for tremendously succulent pulled pork , brisket , and so on ) is done as low as 200 F ( 93 C ) ; some people favor high temperature roasting of certain meats to get a crispy exterior while maintaining a rare interior with temperatures of 450 F ( 232 C ) , or even higher . Many breads are baked at higher temperatures -- and of course , pizza infamously is ideally done at temperatures home ovens can not even achieve , so at home they are often baked at the maximum oven setting around 550 F ( 280 C ) . Deep frying is a separate matter , and it is a complete coincidence that the ideal temperature for deep frying matches that of roasting . The way deep frying works is that the heat of the oil heats the outside of the food , but it is hot enough to nearly instantly vaporize the water at the surface of the food . This water creates a small pocket of vapor around the food , preventing the oil from entering and making the item completely oily . In order for this effect to happen , the oil must be sufficiently hot which starts around 180 C / 350 F. On the other hand , again , you do n't want the food to burn on the outside before it cooks through , but more importantly , you do n't want the oil smoking , and developing off flavors ( many culinary fats have a smoke point starting not too far above these temperatures ) . For these reasons , frying much above this temperature is generally not a good idea . Most ideal frying temperatures are somewhere in the 350 F - 365 F ( 180 C 0 185 C ) range . I suspect many recipes indicate 350 F simply because it has become common and conventional .
The historical purpose of jam is to preserve fruit from a time of bounty to a time when it is less plentiful . Therefore , to be a candidate for jam making , the fruit must be reasonably plentiful in the region where it would be preserved . Technically , in order to form a jam or a jelly , there must be sufficient pectin and sufficient acid in the fruit to thicken it . In some regions , there are traditional combinations of high and low pectin fruits , in order to get a viable jam from the low pectin fruit . Some fruits need acid , in the form of vinegar or lemon juice usually , added in order to help them gel ; others need additional pectin . <URL> has lists of high , medium , and low pectin fruits . Other than this , it is down to the cultural preferences in a given region .
The flip answer is that sauteed food will taste good , and the microwaved version you 're describing will not . A more useful answer , however , would consider physics and chemistry . Microwaving excites molecules , resulting in heat , presuming an adequate supply of water molecules to excite . Sauteeing conducts heat from the heat source to the food by way of the pan . Microwaving falls somewhere between radiant heating ( like an oven ) and steaming , though the results from conventional methods are generally superior . Sauteeing can transfer enough heat quickly enough that desirable effects like caramelization and similar effects like browning are effected with the help of fats and sugars ( often referred to as a <URL> ) , which produces volatile compounds that are very aromatic and contribute a lot to our perception of flavor . It 's exceptionally hard to create the same effects with a microwave .
Umami is the result of glutamic acid ( ions ) getting in touch with the tongue . Glutamic acid in fish sauce is the result of a fermentation process , which involves bacteria doing the work of breaking down fish components . Glutamic acid easily dissolves in water though . This is after all , how it was detected millennia ago and centuries ago verified by creating glutamic acid salts : Cooking seaweed in water and boiling the result down . The wakame is added due to its natural content of glutamic acid . There is n't anything special the pineapple can/has do to it that regular water ca n't do . Therefore the answer is : No , the purpose of the pineapple is not to increase the glutamic acid of the substitute .
As a child , I used to hate the feel and taste when I conciously bit on a piece of onion ( strongest offender : medium-sized chunks , sautéed glassy but still firm ) . Sometimes that still happens . However , I use onion a lot myself now in cooking . Lots of dishes really need the kind of taste onions can supply ; even though that taste may by itself be a bit gross , it 's really useful in the mix . ( This is true for many other ingredients as well ! ) I can only speak for myself , but very likely , there are some dishes where you do n't even notice that onions are in , but they are -- and you would n't like it if they were n't ! Do use onions , just do it consciously . There are broadly three ways of preparing them that I consider effective , each suited to different cases : Disperse them throughout the dish . Either chop them really fine and saut&eacute;e ( with the right technique and a decent knife you can get the chunks down to only a few millimetres ) , or boil with other vegetables and then pur&eacute;e . You 'll get all the good taste , but nowhere too strong and without any unpleasant mouth-feel . Ideal for light/creamy sauces or soups . Caramelise them boldly . Frying changes the taste of onions a lot , it makes them much sweeter , gets rid of the pungency in exchange for a really concentrated savouriness , and almost completely tames the consistency . Browned onions play great together with strong seasonings like garlic and pepper , as flavouring for chewy mushrooms or meats . Or the opposite : keep them mostly raw ! The freshness and crunch of raw onions can also be very useful without evoking what I call the bad onion effect -- albeit in a completely different way . Thinly sliced in salads , or very quickly stir-fried in rice dishes , you keep the raw pungency in check while staying clear of the uncanny softness . Again , it 's a good idea to define the taste heading with other sharp flavours : vinegar or chilies work well . Perhaps you wo n't be able to befriend yourself with all of these preparation methods , but you should give them a try .
It 's semantic nitpicking . Tofu is defined as soy milk , curdled and pressed . Some people who do n't care about oriental culinary tradition think of tofu as any non-dairy milk that is curdled and pressed into a curd . Technically your almond tofu would be almond milk curd or some such . In reality your coworker is being pedantic and I would accept the term " almond tofu " as a perfectly understandable , non oriental , colloquialism .
There are three major properties of the liquids : Fat based ( oil , melted butter , bacon drippings , and on ) versus water based ( milk , juice , water , and so on ) . Flavor - some liquids , juices and to a lesser extent , milk have a distinct flavor that will effect the bread Acid - Some liquids , like orange juice , are more acid and affect the pH of the dough Not every liquid falls neatly into these exact categories . Milk , for example , is about 87 % water , 4 % fat , and the rest is sugars and proteins . These differences are often insignificant compared to the overall bread recipe . In general , you can substitute fat-based liquids for other fat based ingredients , and water based liquids for other water based liquids . Most breads also have the capacity to carry additional fats and sugars ( called enrichment ) , which at its extreme leads to breads like brioche which are very sweet and fatty . Eggs are a complex ingredient in that the whites are mostly water , with some protein ( albumin ) , and the yolks are about 50 % water and 50 % fat . See related : <URL> Note that in a bread recipe , with so few ingredients and a deceptively complex chemistry , all of the ingredients have a role to play in the chemistry , so the major factors you are looking at are the overall total ratios of fat , sugar , and water to the flour . Accent ingredients would be add ins like carway seeds in rye bread which do n't incorporate into the dough . In regards to your desire for more olive oil flavor , you almost certainly can substitute olive oil for any fats already in the recipe with comparable results . Most dought can even carry a little more fat , although this will inhibit yeast growth and gluten development , so that you will need more kneading and more proofing time . You can also brush the crust with olive oil before or after baking . The very best way to get olive oil flavor into your bread is to dip it in oil when you eat it . This also allows you to get the full flavor of a quality oil , as many nuances would be lost if it was baked into the bread .
You are asking a surprisingly lot of questions . First , to deal with this question , you need to understand " creaming " . So look <URL> and <URL> . Nothing " creams " as dramatically as granulated sugar with room temperature butter . Those particular ingredients are special for that . Brown sugar does n't accomplish nearly the creaming effect of granulated sugar , but combined with granulated sugar the combination is greater than the sum of its parts . In other words , a 50/50 mix of brown and granulated sugar can achieve nearly the leavening effect of granulated sugar only with room temperature butter . The sweetness of brown and regular sugar are pretty much equal . In the US and I think almost everywhere else , brown sugar is just granulated sugar with molasses added . Brown sugar adds the molasses flavor , and not surprisingly , some browning . To use non-sugar sweeteners , choose recipes that do n't call for <URL> , they simply wo n't work right . If you want to use a sweetener other than sugar , pick a recipe with a fat that is unsaturated ( liquid at room temperature ) , or melted butter . Also , be sure that your sweetener of choice will maintain its sweetness if baked .
I can not speak to the historical trends in the UK , but in the US , the rise of commercial , sandwich style bread is part of a larger set of food trends that took place after World War II , into the 1950s . Housewives were looking to reduce the amount of labor they spent in the kitchen , such as baking from scratch , while simultaneously there was a trend towards processed " scientific " products that were seen as pure and wholesome at the time . See this article from <URL> for more information . I would argue that the modern is actually moving away to this with the " slow food " and " whole food " trend , and the rising availability of more traditional loaves in regular grocery stores , and increased awareness again of home baking . In fact , recently , whole wheat and whole grain bread has passed white bread in popularity according <URL> from the Chicago Tribune .
One answer to this is that Americans have a reversed understanding of the relationship of pasta to sauce compared to Italians . In Italy , the sauce is called the condimento , meaning literally it is a condiment to the noodles , which are intended to be the main source of enjoyment in the dish . When you begin to understand it that way , it makes sense that you would want to have a wide variety of sizes , shapes and textures . ( What Taeraresh said is also true , there are functional differences in how the different shapes hold sauces . )
What happens to bread when it is done Yes , there is something particular what happens at a temperature in the mid-90s . Not all details of it are proven , but the major outline is , and the hypotheses about the details are solid enough to make it into textbooks . Starch is contained in tiny granules , a few micrometers in diameter . When heated in the presence of water , there is a specific temperature at which these granules burst . The molecules of starch come in contact with water and the water molecules get lodged in the nooks and crannies of the much larger starch molecules . This process is called gelating . You can observe it easily on the macro level . Just cook a bechamel or starch pudding on stovetop , stirring constantly . The liquid will stay rather thin until all will thicken at once , just before you see the first bubbles of boiling . This is when the starch gelates . The same thing happens in bread too . This is why you want to heat the bread to this temperature . If you do n't , you will have raw starch inside , which does n't taste well . The exact temperature at which this happens varies a bit with the type of starch . It is not the same for rice and wheat , for example , and I think that it is also a bit different between different wheat cultivars . But the range within this variation occurs is not so wide , all references I have seen move somewhere between 94 and 98 degrees Celsius . So the recipe author just picks a temperature he knows to work for the flour used in the bread , maybe also accounting for some additional heat transfer after taking out of the oven . Can you use temperature as an indicator for doneness The theory says yes . My personal experience also says yes . Why did you feel that your bread was too doughy ? There are different reasons why this could have happened . You could have measured it wrong ( with the probe being too close to the surface , where the temperature is higher ) . You could have cut it too early . ( Bread is always doughy before the first starch retrogradation , which occurs maybe 1 hour after baking ) . It is also possible that the bread was actually done in the sense of gelled starch , but that the recipe produced a rather moist bread and that you have grown accustomed to dry breads if you normally bake your breads for a very long time , so your brain perceived the unaccustomed texture as " not right " . Or it is possible that something went wrong with the leavening , making the bread too dense . Dense bread is always doughy , you can not bake the moisture out of it . technical criteria for bread doneness There are two big chemical changes which happen to bread while baking . The proteins in bread ( the gluten ) have to harden . Before that , they are soft and pliable . At some temperature , they become rubber-like . The hardened gluten gives the bread structure . The second change is the starch gelation I explained earlier . When this happens , the liquid part of the dough ( dough consists of a liquid phase suspenede in the elastic gluten mesh ) thickens . Gelated starch gives bread a fluffy , soft body . As the starch gelates at much hicher temperatures than proteins denature , bread is taken out of the oven when the starch is done . The third step is the starch retrogradation . In retrogradation , starch loses the water which it took during gelation . There are three big stages of it , after each the texture changes drastically . The first happens at about an hour after getting out of the oven . This is when the bread is considered done by textbooks . In practice , there are many people ( including myself ) who like the taste of the moist hot bread just out of the oven , and they consider it done at the previous step . The second happens after about 24 hours ; after it , the bread is considered stale . The third step takes several days , and after it , bread is considered inedible , because it becomes hard as wood . So technically , bread is considered done after it has been baked to gelation temperature and then left alone for 1 hour .
Folding is almost always done when you have one ingredient like whipped cream , egg whites , meringue , or similar which has had a lot of air whipped into it , and you are incorporating that with another ingredient . The folding motion is meant to disturb the whipped ingredient is little as possible , in order to retain the whipped in air , and thus the volume of the mixture . If you simply whisk , or beat , the air would be beaten out . Whipping the egg whites or whipped cream alone forms a foam with nothing but the air and the fat in whipped cream , or the protein network in egg whites . It us unstable much like the bubbles we used to blow as children . If you add another ingredient , like flour , it can act as an abrasive , popping the little bubbles and deflating the foam . Ingredients which can dissolve fully , and so wo n't be abrasive to the buddies , can still dissolve into the foam walls , and change their chemistry to the point where they do n't hold air any more , again collapsing them . So even though the motion still might be called whisking or whipping , the result is not the same . There are only a few ingredients , such as sugar for whipped cream or egg whites , that can dissolve into the foam walls and not disrupt it , and these ingredients are best incorporated in the original whipping phase where the air is incorporated . Even with folding , there is some volume loss ; the goal is to minimize it .
I found this on <URL> and I think it explains it quite well . RAY < > A " 50/50 " usually references an edge . So on the cutting edge , it is an even 50/50 " V " . It can be 50/50 at 12 degrees or 50/50 @ 20 , but each sides angle is equivocal . A double bevel is a knife design created by grinding . So from the spine to the cutting edge , there is a blade face that has been ground ( most of the time ) . It can be a flat grind , a convex grind , a hollow grind , and any of these grinds can be symmetric ( 50/50 ) or asymmetric . So for instance , my Ginsanko Hiromoto Western Deba has an asymmetrical semi convex grind . It has a flat ground left blade face at around 30 % of the total included angle and the right side blade face has a distinctly convex grind that is the other 70 % of the total included angle , but the actual cutting edge has an asymmetry , as well . The actual cutting edge does not look like a " V " as it is , in fact , a 60/40 right-handed bias . It 's a particularly unique blade , but exemplifies your point , quite well . : mrgreen : In short , the numbers like 50/50 or 70/30 represent the percentage of the included angle on each side of the blade . So , for a 50/50 knife with an included angle of 50 ° , it would be ground to a 25 ° edge angle on each side of the blade . See diagram below :
Supply and demand . Supplies of avocados are declining due to droughts and unusual weather patterns . Not only drought can reduce crops , but unusual cool weather patterns can as well . Avocados dislike temperatures lower than 10 ° C and have absolutely no frost tolerance . Demand for avocados is going steadily upward as more people enjoy cuisines in which they are popular , such as Mexican and many South American dishes . Avocado oil is becoming more in demand as people consume it for its healthy omegas , and cooks use it due to its high smoke-point . Declining supply + rising demand = high prices .
There are a couple of places where the ability to get to 120 ˚C might be useful . You 've already touched on one , which is cooking sugar . With a range up to 120 ˚C you get up to the firm ball stage , allowing you to make syrups , fudge , caramel , fondant , butter creams , marshmallows , meringues , and toffees . You can get some caramelization ( mostly of fructose ) at that temperature . I do n't know how practical it would be with the machine in question , but you can get Maillard reactions at <URL> if you use prolonged cooking time and/or optimize the environment by adding alkaline . This machine does not seem to have a pressurization feature , but that would be another place where the higher temperature would be useful . At a pressure of 1 bar / ~ 15 psi above the existing atmospheric pressure , water in a pressure cooker can reach a temperature of up to 121 ° C ( 250 ° F ) , depending on altitude . Pressure cooking can be used to quickly simulate the effects of long braising or simmering .
I think it 's because freezing tend to dry things out . At lukewarm temperature , it 's still ' steaming ' a bit , which means evaporating liquid , so losing moist . If you can stop the drying out process at that point , the pastry wo n't be as dry as when you let it cool completely . Of course , a too high temperature can do harm to already frozen things , or would cause condensation in the package , so that there would be ice formed . This could be the reason , and therefore , the statement can be true .
There is a lot of water in the milk . The high heat turns the water into steam . The egg and flour contains proteins and gluten that forms a " net " . The steam ca n't escape without pushing the net upwards . This makes the dough rise . It helps that the container is a narrow cylinder .
Those are the flavorings . Just like dill pickles have dill in them , those are what give the flavor profile that people expect from bread &amp; butter pickles .
Baking is a complicated process and requires precision ; you start out with complex molecules , and transform them into something has to have many qualities precisely right . The common quality of all baked goods is the foam structure : each baked good is best when its foam is right . Example : for a cake , the " right " foam has lots of tiny , regular bubbles , and the bubble walls support the foam , but are soft , not elastic . The ideal foam for a bread or pie crust is different . There are other criteria for the cake layer to be good : Evenly baked Regular shape and surface , no cracks or doming Neither overcooked nor undercooked , starch gelatinized but not retrograded Moisture content correct , should n't be dry or melt in the mouth like a brownie Color Balanced flavor : not too sweet , eggy , salty , or bland This list is just for the layer itself , frosting and combining layers makes it even more complicated ! With so many qualities to balance , you need a precise process to get reliable results ; however home bakers do n't want to monitor precisely . Most lack probe thermometers , and Americans often use volume measures for dry ingredients , rather than the more accurate weights . Finally , most home bakers do n't understand the theory of baking . Great bakers draw on both theory and practice when they bake , and their recipes rarely fail . Theory teaches them the significance of each step , and the hidden assumptions made by the recipe . Practice teaches to judge what is happening before his eyes , and how to recognize when something has gone wrong . Theory and practice together let great bakers identify when something has gone wrong and rescue the project . A novice will have neither practice nor theory aid them . He is even likely to misunderstand steps . For example , he may stir vigorously when the recipe says " fold " . He may also omit key steps when pressed for time , without realizing their significance . For example , using fridge-cold eggs when they should be room temperature . Of course , everybody has to start somewhere , and not all baking recipes are created equal . Some have more room for error than others . For example , making a genoise for the first time is very hard . The egg yolks start foaming at around 50 ° C , but ca n't build a good enough foam at below 65 ° C . They curdle irreversibly at 85 ° C . So a genoise has to be created in a water bath at a temperature around 70 to 75 ° C , and when the yolks are foamed , the flour ( which has to be low-gluten ) is added and mixed well enough to not fall to the bottom in lumps , but not well enough to remove the air from the foam . After that , the layer is baked , and it glues itself terribly to the pan , unless the baker had the foresight to use parchment combined with proper flouring technique , and then used proper technique to remove the layer when it is still warm enough to separate but not so hot that it gets irreversibly squished . There are so many things to get wrong with a genoise that a novice will run into them without ever realizing what happened . Recipes that " never fail " are the opposite ; they are robust , and do n't rely on precision . Simple muffins are one example : The chemical leavening of the baking powder works well in many conditions , unlike the fickle yolk foam leavening in the genoise . Muffins even work if the cook just beats everything together in the bowl . You do n't have to worry about overmixing , creaming , or specific temperatures . The fat content keeps muffins moist even when measurements are n't exact , and masks mistakes by enhancing flavor . The cook actually seeks out doming , rather than avoiding it ! Finally , the crumb does n't have to be soft , regular and airy the way cake crumb should be . Muffins can tolerate a lot of mistakes ! To summarize : " never fail " recipes are recipes where : There are few steps Each step is simple to perform Even if the baker makes an error , the end result is still likely to come out tasting good . Of course , this ignores the catches ! Publishers can claim a recipe will " never fail " when they are unreliable for a novice . Sometimes this happens accidentally , when a bad baker repeats a recipe enough that it becomes easy , but others have difficulty with it . Finally , not everyone has the same criteria for success . I once found a recipe for a wedding cake on a popular site ; it used box mix , smothered it in pudding from a sachet , and decorated with gummi bears . Virtually all commenters insisted that it has turned out " great " and described how the wedding guests complimented them . I ca n't imagine that it was really " great " , but suspect that people who know what a great cake tastes like did n't bother to make the cake or leave comments . There is no guarantee that a recipe labelled " always works " lives up to its name , or is actually good . But , if you 're a new baker , it 's a good idea to start with such a recipe until you have gathered some experience .
From an article entitled <URL> on BusinessInsider.com Baker 's prototype nugget , developed with student Joseph Marshall , mastered two food-engineering challenges : keeping ground meat together without putting a skin around it , and keeping batter attached to the meat despite the shrinkage caused by freezing and the explosive heat of frying . They solved the first problem by grinding raw chicken with salt and vinegar to draw out moisture , and then adding a binder of powdered milk and pulverized grains . They solved the second by shaping the sticks , freezing them , coating them in an eggy batter and cornflake crumbs , and then freezing them a second time to -10 degrees . With trial and error , the sticks stayed intact .
end question
start question
How to dress sushi to better enhance all its flavours ?
I remain extremely skeptical that there is a right or wrong way to dress , pick up , eat , or otherwise deal with sushi . A <URL> for " is there a right way to eat sushi " turns up hundreds of pages , many with contradictory information . If there is a " right " way , it 's most certainly dictated by the locale or restaurant you 're in or the people you 're with . My advice is to do whatever you want , particularly if you 're paying for the meal . If you 're a guest , follow the lead of your hosts . But do n't sweat it . Enjoy it ! UPDATE since the original question has been edited ... what is the better way to dress sushi and sashimi . " Better " is still difficult to define for everyone , and will vary by each person 's taste . Something that " enhances " flavors for me may be completely unacceptable to you , and vice-versa . There 's no accounting for taste ! But since you made an effort to clarify your question , I am updating my answer accordingly . Sometimes the " better " dressing is none at all . This is particularly true for Unagi or others that have some kind of sauce already applied ( though I know some people who dip Unagi in soy sauce and claim it is great ) . I have a daughter with soy allergy , so she can not use soy sauce at all and does n't like wasabi . She enjoys eating salmon and tuna nigiri pieces completely plain . I 've tried it myself , and with good , fresh fish it is really good . I have heard of people dipping the pickled ginger in the soy sauce and using that as a kind of " brush " to gently apply soy sauce to the topping . That may be " better " if you are adept with chopsticks and enjoy pickled ginger along with soy . Some people dip only the topping into the soy sauce , to avoid getting the rice saturated . This is a little easier to do if you use your fingers to pick up the sushi pieces ( and according to <URL> this is perfectly acceptable for sushi ) ( but <URL> ) . Some people mix wasabi ( sometimes , copious amounts ) in with the soy sauce and dip the sushi into that mixture . Some suggest that <URL> .
You can add a handful of pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds . You do n't need to adjust any of the other ingredients . Sunflower seeds contain a ton of good stuff , including fibre , according to <URL> : " In addition to linoleic acid ( an essential fatty acid ) , sunflower seeds are also an excellent source of dietary fiber , some amino acids ( especially tryptophan ) , Vitamin E , B Vitamins ( especially vitamin B1 or thiamine , vitamin B5 or pantothenic acid and folate ) , and minerals such as copper , manganese , potassium , magnesium , iron , phosphorus , selenium , calcium and zinc . [ 5 ] Additionally , they are rich in cholesterol-lowering phytosterols . "
Obviously , every manufacturer is going to have their own proprietary methods . However , canned goods are often made by combining ingredients ( possibly partially cooked ) directly into the cans , and then pressure cooking them in the can as part of the canning process . So , for example , the broth , some celery , and some carrots might be added to the open can in measured amounts . Then , the can is sealed , and pressure cooked to both sterilize the contents , and to cook the celery and carrots through .
There are a variety of factors at work here : Freezing foods " improperly " ( i.e. not flash-frozen , not vacuum-sealed ) causes ice crystals to form within the food , damaging the molecular structures . This is what causes many frozen leftovers to become " mushy " or change in texture . Again due to the formation of ice and the movement of water when the food is reheated , tiny particles such as spices can be lost in steam and/or runoff water . Extreme temperatures ( both hot and cold ) can denature enzymes in the food , changing their flavor , texture , etc. . As food sits , flavors in the food may blend together in different ways , causing the food to have less distinct flavors . If your freezer is n't especially clean and your food not well-sealed , your food may be absorbing other odors which are again " masking " the original flavor of your food . Hope that gives you some ideas .
I ca n't speak for the new high end machines that provide pressure profiling , or the cheap domestic machines , which work who knows how , but the standard system for distributing pressure on the coffee is the e61 group head , and most machine group heads are based off the original design . The e61 group is pretty much just a system of 3 pressure valves that allows the pressure to slowly ramp up 9 bars and then maintains that 9 bars of pressure while the pump continues to work . Some versions include other steps such as pre-infusion , or on newer high-end machines the ability to create pressure profiles which adjust the pressure at any point during the espresso shot . Also note that all the resistance HAS to come from the coffee puck , so you may be grinding too coarse or not tamping hard enough . If you need to measure the pressure from the grouphead , espresso machine techs use a device like this . You could probably make your own at home if you are so inclined .
Tearing is for artistic effect Some people will claim tearing does not damage the cell of the plant as much as cutting , a simple look under a basic microscope will show you otherwise . Not sure how this would affect basil in particular . What dish are you preparing ? If you want more basil flavour and smell , cut it more finely , or bruise it ( back of knife or rolling pin ) to release more oils just before serving
It 's fine to freeze , no need to cook if you do n't want to ; just be sure to use it immediately after thawing . Freezing things essentially stops the clock : food will stay just as safe to eat no matter how long it 's frozen . It can deteriorate but it 's more about drying out ( freezer burn ) , taking on odors , and so on , not safety . So since it 's safe right now , it 'll be safe frozen .
I find that brushes and even paper towels are too rough on mushrooms . I use cold running water and gentle rubbing by hand .
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
They go into soup . Or pot pies . Or any of the other myriad industrially produced canned or frozen foods which require chicken stock or chicken flavoring and sometimes canned chicken meat . The millions of cans of Campbell 's have to come from somewhere :-) For smaller home chicken farmers , they probably end up in the stock pot . If you know people who keep backyard flocks , they may be willing to sell you their culls for a very reasonable price .
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
Sort of . Nut flours are the base of many " flourless " cakes and torts . This one from <URL> is typical , and uses almond flour , which is more common than walnut . <URL> that specifically uses walnut . Note that these are not examples of using nut flours as a substitution for flour , they are recipes developed for nut flours . Both of those recipes start with whole nuts that are ground in a food processor or spice grinder . Wheat flour behaves very differently , if you want to bake a cake using nut flour in combination with or instead of wheat flour , search for recipes that call for nut flour . Trying to work out an actual substitution would be fraught with peril . Nuts are full of fat and non-gluten protein , wheat flour has starch and gluten forming protein ( although a high gluten level is not usually desirable in cakes , that 's why cake flour is lower in protein than AP , so that it creates less gluten ) . Now I see from the edit to the question that the zucchini/chocolate cake that led to the qustion is actually a kind of cheesecake . Cheesecakes generally do n't contain flour , in the case of your recipe the nuts are actually replacing a portion of the cream cheese . In other cheesecakes you might see nuts in the crust or garnish , but I 've never seen flour in the filling .
" Plastic chocolate " is a form of chocolate used for modeling and shaping decorative elements such as chocolate roses , ribbons and other elements for cakes and desserts . Take about 1 lb . of bittersweet chocolate and melt over a double boiler . When chocolate is melted , stir in 2/3 cup of light corn syrup . Mix until evenly blended and then set aside to cool . When it firms up , wrap tightly in a heavy gauge plastic bag or wrap tightly in plastic wrap . Let sit for several hours or overnight . No need to refrigerate it , ambient temperature is fine . Cut the plastic chocolate into smaller size chunks that will be easy to knead . Begin kneading to soften it . If it gets sticky , use a little cocoa powder but be careful not to dry it out . Knead until pliable and then roll out to desired thickness and cut as desired to shape your sushi rolls , decorative elements , etc. . You can roll it through the roller of a pasta machine to help get it to an even thickness . If you 're wanting the rough look of nori then press some crumpled foil into it after rolling as previously suggested .
Some things that are made almost entirely of almonds ( plus elbow grease ) , and thus will use up a large quantity of almonds : Almond butter ( need to add : nothing . Well , salt , if you like . ) Almond milk ( need to add : water ) And then there are more dessert recipes than you can shake a stick at , but they take increasing amounts of other ingredients , and thus decreasing amounts of almonds . Marzipan ( need to add : sugar , rosewater ) Macarons ( need to add : sugar , eggs , some sort of icing/frosting ) Almond torte ( ditto ) Almond brittle ( need to add : sugar , corn syrup , butter , salt ) Almond pasta [ variation on Hungarian dióstészta ] ( need to add : cooked pasta of your choice [ e.g. broken-up fettuccine or small egg noodles ] , sweetening of your choice [ sugar or honey or even artificial sweeteners will all work ] )
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
The easiest way where I live to get rennet is to buy Junket tablets at the grocery store . If they have it it 's near the ice cream toppings . You can buy it online from the company . It 's very cheap and although not 100 % pure rennet it works just fine for the variety of cheeses I have made . The box of tablets comes with reliable recipes for a variety of cheeses and ice cream . Online cheese making suppliers can sell you " higher quality " rennet that is much more expensive . This may make sense for you - especially if you are buying from them anyway for specialized bacteria or mold to make a particular cheese like swiss , etc. . I ca n't recommend one in particular but they are easy to find . You can make your own . I would n't recommend it . Rennet is an enzyme used by calves to digest their mother 's milk . Historically , when a calf was slaughtered the correct stomach ( I believe the first ) would be chopped up and soaked for some time in water . The stomach was then removed and the water with dissolved rennet would be used to make cheese . If you have access to a calf and have a tougher constitution than I you could certainly try this . Nowadays rennet is mostly recombinantly produced . For those opposed to our genetically-modified-bacteria-friends non-recombinant rennet can be found . Vegetarian rennet derived from vegetables or mold with similar properties is also available . Recombinant is , of course , much less expensive .
I have a " Grill Wok " that I received as a gift that looks like this : It is great for grilling potatoes . Peel and cube to about 1 " pieces . Par boiling or microwaving works equally well for blanching the cubes . Toss in a large bowl with olive oil and melted butter Add seasoning : salt , pepper , chili powder , oregano , etc. ( to taste ) Allow Grill Wok to preheat on the grill , when hot add potatoes . Cook till golden brown ( I believe mine was obtained at Bass Pro Shop , but they are available elsewhere )
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
Of those two , Maida flour is the closest to ' Western ' all-purpose flour ( which is an American term . It is called plain flour in Britain ) . Atta flour is made from durum wheat , which is used for things like pasta ( and of course Indian breads like chapatis ) . Maida flour is made with ' regular ' wheat , but it also has a lower protein content than all-purpose flour ( 8-10 % as opposed to 9-12 % ) . The impact of this lower protein level will depend on what you 're cooking . Maida flour should be good for making cakes , for example .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
end question
start question
Do foil packets on a charcoal grill get any flavor from the smoke ?
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
In my somewhat limited experience you have two things that affect growth of the crispy ears . As Caleb mentions using a lame to score your bread means you can cut with a bit of an angle that will promote a little flap . The second is ensuring a rapid oven spring , which will cause the flap to open as much as possible before the starches on the surface set . The key to good oven spring is having a hot enough oven ( preheat longer than you think you need to if you are using a stone or other heat-storing vessel in the oven ) , and a source of steam injection . A few ways to do get some steam : When you put the dough in , pour a 1/2 cup of boiling water into a small cast iron skillet pre-heated in the oven . Spritz the walls of the oven with water when you put the dough in . My favorite - preheat a large dutch oven , and put the dough inside the dutch oven ( lid on ) to bake . For the last 10 minutes of the bake , remove the lid . The dutch oven stores some of the initial steam release and makes for much nicer spring and crusts . Of course , only round bread fits .
There are a couple of fluff pieces on the web that appear to indicate the George Forman Grills remove fat from foods , due to the tiled bed allowing draining : <URL> <URL> In my opinion , both have the feel of echoing press releases from the manufacturer . Neither compares the effectiveness of the tilted bed grill to a more traditional grilling method . Consider griddling a hamburger on a flat griddle or in a flat style panini press , with or without raised grooves . Even without the grooves , as the hamburger cooks , it expresses fat and other liquid as the proteins in the meat tighten . With a fatty hamburger , this can be a considerable amount , even though it is not draining away . The issue in expressed fat is not the tilt , but rather the squeezing effect the cooked proteins have , forcing the fat out of the food . This happens regardless of the angle of the bed . Consider also that it is the contraction of the meat that is important in expressing the fat . If the fat were simply liquefied but the proteins not fully tightened , less or no fat is expressed . This can be seen in low temperature sous-vide cooking . Adhesion and capillary action would keep the fat in the meat otherwise . The logical conclusion is that the tilt of the bed is irreverent in expressing the fat , but does help clear it away and collect it . This may have some minor effect on the amount of fat adhering to the outside of the food item , but is not the major effect . You can argue whether the clearing of the fat away during cooking is a positive or negative for culinary quality , but it does n't affect the amount of fat .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
What Rincewind42 says about caramelization is true in itself , but it does n't apply here . Cotton candy is made from sugar syrup at the hard ball stage ( 130 ° C ) , so too cold for caramelization . Caramelization only starts occuring at 160 ° C and above . In fact , caramel has a very different texture from sugar , so it is practically impossible to spin cotton out of it . It makes spidery , unendly elastic strands , unlike the brittle cotton candy strands . Plus , it is visibly brown , and tastes very different from sugar , so you 'd notice it when eating the cotton candy . The flavor of cotton candy is indeed sugar ( unless it has had something else added ) . But taste is not the same thing as flavor . Things taste different to us based on texture , aroma , color and food name . ( I once read about a study made with unusually colored puddings . People who had eaten cherry pudding with yellow coloring were sure they are eating banana or lemon , and they were convinced the pink vanilla pudding was strawberry ) . So it is entirely possible that a gelato customer who eats a gelato called " cotton candy " , has lots of sugar and is painted a pastel color will perceive it as having a different taste from non-flavored ice cream which has lots of sugar , but not the color or the name , especially if the texture of the " cotton candy " flavor is tweaked a bit .
Another physics digression . All cooked food gets hot , and everything in any given dish will have the same temperature { * } . The tomatoes do n't get hotter than the other ingredients . But they do have a tendency to burn more than certain other substances , so the question is " Why ? " . You get burned when a portion of your flesh reaches a high enough temperature { + } . The food warms your tongue , lips , etc. by heat conduction until either you move the food or your mouth parts and the food reach the same temperature ( a condition known as thermal equilibrium ) . What that common temperature is depends on the amount of heat ( i.e. thermal energy ) in the system . Some of the factors that come into play are : How much ( mass of ) food there is . How much ( mass of ) your mouth is involved ( see below ) . The initial temperature of the food . The " heat capacity " of both the food and your mouth parts , which is a property of each substance that appears as a coefficient in the thermal equilibrium equation . ( Do n't worry , I 'm not going to make you read any math . ) Water has a ( very ! ) high heat capacity , so watery foods tend to drive high final temperature and thus to burn you more easily . There is an added complication for the extra heat needed to establish a phase change ( i.e. melt solids or vaporize liquids ) called the heat of fusion or heat of vaporization . Again water has a high value for both of these numbers . How fast the common temperature is reached depends on The area of contact between the food and the mouth . Another coefficient called the thermal conductivity . This one is complicated , but liquids tend to have a high thermal conductivity and solids less so . This is where soups , sauces , and melted cheese really get you . Note that your mouth parts has a pretty low thermal conductivity , so you only get to count the surface layers in finding the equilibrium temperature . Sorry . Some consequences of all this : This is why you can peel the aluminum foil off of a pan that has just come out of a 400 degree ( F ) oven without trouble , but if you get your hand stuck in the steam plume ( which is only around 212 degrees F ) you get scalded : Aluminum has a low heat capacity , and steam has a ( very , very ! ) high one . Small bites help in two ways : less total heat means a lower common temperature , and may allow you to move the food around in your mouth , reducing the temperature of any one part . Some foods are just dangerous this way . You know what they are from experience : steam , hot soups and sauces , melted cheese , etc. . { * } Well , sort of . But take that as true for any particular region of any particular dish . { + } What temperature is that ? Good question . Maybe there is a medical professional around , 'cause I do n't know . I 'd guess around 140 -- 150 degrees F ( call it 60 -- 65 degrees C ) , but do n't quote me .
Another option for covering plates to keep flies away is a mesh net : here 's one <URL> I found by using Google to search for . This wo n't come into contact with the food , unlike the plate you currently use or the newspaper @AnishaKaul suggests .
After washing them , fill them with a mild bleach solution ( one tablespoon for each cup of water ) and let them out in the sun exposing the stain for a whole day . Make sure children and animals can not reach the containers with bleach . There used to be a product called Cascade Plastic Booster that you could add to your dishwasher that would remove the stains . It 's no longer sold but its main ingredient was benzoyl peroxide at 5 % , which you may buy in most drugstores .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
The only good way I know of to concentrate fresh orange juice and maintain the flavor is by removing the water . But not by heating it , as the heat will destroy the flavor . You need a vacuum distiller or freeze dryer for your orange juice . Pulling a vacuum will boil the juice at room temperature , removing the water without adding any heat .
The smoke flavour will definitely impart into the oil and you will have to cook the wings separately to achieve the desired flavour difference . Cheers Dean
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
you know better than I do , it depends on the orange and type of orange . My mom , an executive chef , used to say that you 'd allow 1-2 lb of oranges for 1 drinkable cup of orange juice . I really think , that it 's highly dependent on the type of orange . I know naval and blood oranges are the juiciest compared to other varieties .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
What you 're describing is n't all that different from how they make various products like Liquid Smoke ( make smoke along with steam , then condense that steam ) . You will need to make sure that some actual condensation occurs ( for example , by having a lid for the smokey vapor to condense onto ) . However , it may be simpler to add a liquid smoke-type product directly ; at least the main brands are actually smoke distillates ( and not artificial flavorings or similar ) and thus should be effectively identical to this process , but quicker .
Personal experience : I have used pots and pans on this and similar grills with no problems . My guess would be , if it says not to use them , it 's probably as you said - for the non-stick coating . There is a <URL> you can buy for the larger models , and perhaps you 're not going to get the most efficient heat transfer by putting it directly on the attached - but that does n't mean it wo n't work at all . Personally , I 'd rather have something slightly less efficient than have to carry two grills . Not sure which model you have ( since you said the portable , I assume <URL> ) , but the LX can handle pots and pans according to <URL> : " Grill lid detaches to make room for large pots or pans . " As far as I can tell , they 're essentially the same grill as far as how they function , just different sizes and features . Just to be safe , I would probably fire it up in your yard before the trip and try cooking something that you would cook on the trip , like a pot of coffee or a can of beans . That way you wo n't have any surprises when you 're deep in the woods and do n't have a backup ! If you are n't comfortable using it after your test , or for any reason , there are other solutions available that are pretty easy to carry . You can get a <URL> , they 're very small and light and easy to pack . There are some that sit directly on top of the propane bottle , but I do n't recommend them - they are very easy to tip , especially if you have children at the campsite . Unrelated to your specific question , but related to camping , I always recommend taking a small cast iron pot or dutch oven of some kind on any camping trip . In a jam ( let 's say you run out of propane ) , you can use that on any fire that you build , even directly on the wood/coals/whatever , and a pot is more versatile than a pan because it can be used for things you said , such as boiling water and making coffee as well as your typical browning , etc. .
Searing on a grill to " seal in juices " has largely been disproven . Meat loses juice at roughly the same speed regardless of searing the meat first . Searing does produce the Maillard reaction and caramelization which enhances flavor ; however , searing first does n't produce better results . A test performed by Alton Brown in 2008 demonstrated that searing at the end of the cooking process loses less water than searing at the beginning . For more information see <URL> . For the Alton Brown results see <URL> ( video ) .
Whether or not charcoal tastes different/better is actually a bit of a debate . I 've been a propane griller for years and now I use charcoal not for the taste , but because frankly , I like to play with fire . But lets assume that there is a taste difference , identify where the differences comes from , and how to address them : The smoke from charcoal . This is ( if you 've been using natural lump charcoal ) pretty much just wood smoke . If you 've been using briquettes you 'll also get the smoke of the filler and such , but generally this is n't desirable and we do n't want to replicate it . For smoke on a gas grill - you can use something like <URL> . Fill it with wood chips and place it over a burner , it should start smoking . Vapor from the food drippings hitting the coals , and rising back up to flavor the food . This used to be a big advantage to charcoal , but its largely minimized by new gas grills with ' vapor bars ' . As long as your grill has one of these , you 're in luck . Otherwise , there 's not a good , safe way to replicate it - but odds are you have it . Its a long bar usually running the length of burners . Lighter fluid taste . Another undesirable flavor if you 're doing a particular ( and not good IMO ) kind of charcoal grilling . Frankly , its not one you 're likely to miss . Those are the main tastes and how to replicate them . Nowadays the biggest is definitely # 1 , but it only matters if you doing foods that cook for a significant length of time or are especially ' porous ' . If you 're doing hot dogs and chicken breasts , I would n't bother if smoke . If you 're doing burgers - maybe/probably . If you 're doing thick steaks , thick pork chops , a whole chicken , or anything that 's going on awhile , then creating some smoke is definitely worth it . ( " Liquid smoke " definitely does n't taste like the real thing . )
I think this is a good question , as it is an issue that is frequently misunderstood . There is an aromatic flavoring called angostura bark , though it seems to be more used in traditional medicine than in any food or cooking situation . Angostura brand bitters , on the other hand , do not actually contain the bark at all -- they are instead a brand -- House of Angostura -- named for Angostura , Venezuela . As a flavor , this formula belongs to a class of bitters called " aromatic bitters " ( as opposed to , say , <URL> . Angostura is probably the best-selling brand of aromatic bitters , at least in the US , but they are by no means the only player . Fee Brothers and Peychaud 's are both popular alternatives . Though there is a fairly wide variety among aromatic bitters , and their formulas are secret , they do have some commonalities . For example , <URL> tends to be the strongest flavor . They are also , as the name implies , very aromatic , so that a " dash " or two is plenty to flavor a drink .
end question
start question
How can tuna/bonito be tested for histamine ?
If you say that your handling of the fish was a 5 minute walk and to cut it up and freeze it , it is more than likely that the contamination occurred during the supply chain . Once the enzyme histidine decarboxylase has been formed , it can continue to produce histamine in the fish even if the bacteria are not active . There are test kits available for checking histamine levels but they are intended for commercial use . <URL> is one of the places that has them .
Usually you can tell when Pineapples are ripen , which will be sweet , when Leaves are loose and can easily be picked from the top The shell has golden colour ( but not dark brown , these are getting rotten ) The aroma even from out of the shell is strong A typical pineapple that is bought green and unripen , takes one to two days to ripe well . Do n't put them in the fridge if you want to ripe them . Keep them out on the counter . As a street food vendor , we always keep them in the truck for one night prior to selling , that ensure the pineapples ripe enough and the juice comes out of it . Hope it helps .
Yes , you can squeeze walnuts , pecans , almonds together and get something going . I wo n't mention peanuts because they 're not tree nuts ( and they 've lost my respect in other ways ) . Read this answer tongue-in-cheek given the gravity of the question . Obviously pistachios are the easiest to open and filberts/hazelnuts the tougher nuts to crack . Pine nuts are somewhat easy , but who wants to carry a barrel of pine cones just to get a few nuts ? I 've never seen a macadamia or brazil nuts in a shell and been told Cashews are n't edible unroasted . You can also get creative using tools other than a nutcracker or your hands . I used to use the door and jamb ( hinge side ) in college since we had indestructible doors . Even keys and car keys are useful to wedge open walnuts . Some birds ( crows/ravens ) throw the nuts on the road and wait for a car ( hat-tip to them clever birds ) . Pretty sure one of my friends uses his iPhone 5 as a hammer ( it works , but do n't do it ) . Finally , if you 're concerned about oxidization on shelled nuts , I understand . As a delicious option , try placing shelled walnuts or almonds in cold water in the fridge overnight and rinse in the morning . The skins slide off and most of the bitter washes away leaving pure yumminess behind .
Yes , you can . In fact , this is a specific technique known as a " <URL> " which is a good way to take liquid coffee camping with you if you do n't want to take brewing equipment . Some people even prefer coffee made this way to other methods of brewing .
Heavy cream can be frozen but only if intended to be used in its liquid form ( soups , sauces , etc. ) It will not whip properly once frozen . I agree with Pointy that there 's really no point in freezing it because it 's usually dated about 2 months out from the time I 'm purchasing it . Additionally , if kept cold and not left out on the counter unnecessarily ( as with most dairy products ) it will keep well beyond the date on the carton . I 'm not a milk drinker but use it baking/cooking . If I have a recipe that requires milk I use a 50:50 ratio of heavy cream and water and have n't had any issues yet . If I was using milk it would be whole milk so it 's kind of like making your own version .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
Cheaper spirits can certainly be used in culinary applications . The results wo n't be identical , but inexpensive liquors are a lot more cost-effective since the subtle differences in flavor between middling and quality spirits tend to get masked by other flavors . This is especially true when you 're applying heat , which will burn off much of the alcohol ( though not all ) and change some of the volatile flavor compounds in the spirit . For things like a tomato sauce made with wine , a pan sauce deglazed with brandy , or a dessert flambeed with rum , the difference between bottom-shelf and high-end product will be evident only in the cost . Poor-quality vodka will have some " rough " flavors if you 're drinking it straight , and those might carry over into the liqueur in particular . Chilling will help , so you probably wo n't notice much difference in your borscht , and once you bake the liqueur into something I doubt any flavor difference will be noticeable in the final product . As a rule of thumb , the more you manipulate the spirit , the less you 'll notice its provenance . I can say confidently that using free , leftover plonk in a culinary application will be a much better use than drinking it !
I do n't think so . In the mayonnaise case , all that has happened is the fat has come out of emulsion and gathered together again , so you can re-emulsify it . In the whipped cream case , you 've started to create large fat crystals ( butter ) . I guess technically it might work to heat it up to melt the butter , re-emulsify it into cream and then beat it again , but I do n't think it would be worth the effort . You could go ahead and finish churning it into butter and buttermilk if you want to avoid wasting the cream .
From a safety point of view , assuming you are keeping the vinegar in the refrigerator while soaking ... I would make the conservative assumption that the water and nutrients from the onions is diluting the acidity of the vinegar , and making it a more hospital environment for pathogens . Therefore , I would think of the vinegar as a fully perishable item , with a lifetime in the refrigerator of four or five days . How many batches of onions could you soak in that time ? Of course , from the efficacy point of view , each batch of onions will flavor the vinegar more , and dilute it more -- so at some point , you wo n't get the results you are looking for , whether that is a basic " velveting " of the onions from a quick soak , or a more pickling like change from a longer soak . You will have to decide when the results are no longer good enough . The thing is -- vinegar is very inexpensive , at least in the US . Is it worth reusing it , when you will get less consistent results ?
You can use buckwheat for pizza dough , but it will not be anything like an actual wheat flour . Buckwheat is n't actually a grain and does n't contain gluten . The gluten is what gives pizza dough it 's chewy texture ( and makes it stretchable when you 're tossing the pie ) . You need to substitute something like xanthum gum to make up for it . If you want to go down this path , google ' gluten free baking ' for advice and directions . On the other hand , buckwheat makes an excellent partial flour substitute in pancakes .
The same logic applies . The smaller the temperature difference between uncooked and cooked , the easier it will be to get an even amount of cooking all the way through . Especially with a fast method of cooking like broiling .
It does n't compare at all - broiling is the US term for what is called grilling in UK . The heat source is above the food . In the US , a " grill " is used to mean a " gas powered barbeque " , as the Brits would say . The heat source is below the food .
Many chefs and restaurants follow <URL> obsessively , at least in part because they 're required to . Using ingredients that have been stored longer than considered safe can result in customers getting sick , in which case they probably wo n't return , they 'll tell their friends or use social media to spread the word , and they may take legal action if they got really sick . If a health inspector catches such violations , they wo n't be happy either , and they have a number of potential penalties to impose . Food cost is on par with labor as being one of the <URL> of running a food service business . I 've always heard the " rule of thirds " as a guideline for operating costs in a restaurant setting : 1/3 food cost , 1/3 labor cost , and 1/3 profit ( which is not always pure profit and may involve reinvesting back to the business ) . <URL> bear this out as well . My point with all of this is that chefs have two strong , competing incentives : Do not waste food , because it 's expensive in the short term ! Do not serve bad or spoiled food , because it 's expensive in the long term ! Obviously there are bad chefs out there who simply do n't care . They may not be invested in the business , poorly trained , or just checked out . And many of us have seen reality TV exposes that show how awful some kitchens are . But , the good chefs that I 've worked for and with have a couple different approaches to using up prepped ingredients and avoid throwing things out : Good labeling and storage . This is really fundamental anyway if you want to ensure that you know how old everything is . Some ingredients ( blanched or hearty vegetables ) will easily keep for a day or two after being prepped if they 're kept cold . All you need do is store them correctly ( which depends on the exact food ) and use some <URL> to keep things straight in the fridge . Recycle them into a different dish tomorrow . Lots of restaurants have specials or rotating items . If I shelled a bunch of beautiful fresh peas for a risotto on the dinner menu and I simply do n't sell many , I can turn the extra peas into a delicious soup tomorrow . If I 'm smart , I 'll also use up some of the ham that I diced for a different dish , and the vegetable stock that I use everywhere and have to make more of anyway . On which note : Turn them into basic or pantry ingredients . Some chefs are really good at this . There are certain things that you can use everywhere : stocks , breadcrumbs , etc. . And they are n't necessarily picky about their base ingredients being in prime quality . I might make vegetable stock every couple of days using whatever pre-prepped vegetables I 've got on hand , supplemented as needed with fresh ( also an excellent way to use up odds and ends that ca n't be served on their own , like celery stalk bottoms ) . I might take a surplus of julienned carrots that would have been garnish and pickle them for later use . I could take fresh herbs that are starting to wilt and use those in a marinade for meat . This is a really defining quality for a great chef for me : cleverness with a broad range of ingredients and preparations , and a willingness to experiment . After all , if those pickled carrots do n't work out , I would have had to throw them anyway . Compost them . Not feasible for everybody , but growing their own food is something of a trend and obsession for certain chefs . Rather than having things go to waste I can do what a smart home gardener would , and turn my sad wilted vegetables into healthy compost for my rooftop herb garden . Most chefs who do these sort of things are also very good about monitoring how much they sell and doing their best not to order or prep more than they need , so they do n't have tons of waste in the first place . Chefs who are n't as passionate simply wind up throwing more out . This leads to the curious assertion ( but I 've seen it quoted from Gordon Ramsay as well ) that you can learn a lot about a chef by going out back and checking the dumpster . Oh , and since your question asks specifically about line and prep cooks : ideally , they are doing exactly what the head chef tells them to . That 's basic kitchen discipline . If they go off on their own and prep three times more potatoes than they were told to , they wo n't be prepping potatoes or anything else for too much longer .
General food safety guidelines give you four hours of time between 40F and 140F ; more than that , and unsavory bacteria exceed nominally safe limits . So , there 's your safety limit . Total time counts , that is , in a bag back from the grocer for 2 hours , then in the fridge and back down to 34F and then out for 1 hour on the counter = 1 hour left until it needs to go over 140 for ten minutes ( or 165 for 1 minute ) or into your mouth . And of course , there 's the amount of time it was left on the dock , etc. etc. . That said , if you left fish in the fridge for a week , it would be mushy and bad tasting raw -- so you also must use your tastebuds and nose to see if you want to eat it raw ; food safety is n't the only concern .
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
Fruits that are high in pectin are not necessarily sour and sour fruits are not necessarily high in pectin . However , pectin is typically found in high concentrations in firm fleshed fruit such as apples and in the skins of citrus . Unripe fruit has even more than the ripe . So - I can see why you would come to that conclusion . It is easy enough to <URL> <URL> of pectin levels in various fruits . As you may notice many of these charts list not only fruits high in pectin but those high in acid . This is because acid is necessary to make pectin gel as it removes a charge on the pectin molecules that prevents them from tangling with each other . Low acid fruits , even if they are high in pectin , need extra acid for this reason . If you are feeling all scientific about it , you can <URL> . There is no danger in experimenting . At least no danger of illness . You might end up with grainy jam if the pectin is too high or syrup if it is too low but it will all taste great .
To decrease the bitterness , bring out the sweetness in the carrots by cooking for longer . The best technique I 've found to do this with carrots is frying and steaming them at a low temperature . Make glazed carrots : per 200g of carrot , peel , cut into ~ 2cm thick diagonal cuts and add 40g butter , a half teaspoon of sugar and season with salt and black pepper . In a large lidded pan over a low heat , spread the carrots out in a single layer , add the lid and cook for 25-35 minutes . Shake the pan occasionally . Push the cooking time as long as you can without letting the carrots become overly soft . This should give deliciously sweet fragrant carrot . Another thing to keep in mind is that salt is better than sugar to reduce bitterness so add as much as you can without oversalting the carrots .
Almond Milk for cow 's milk was a really common substitution in medieval recipes . A lot of medieval recipes used almond milk - almonds being a lot easier to store without spoiling and find reliably when a medieval cook needed some . Almond milk was a staple of the medieval kitchen . It was used in a wide variety of dishes as a substitute for milk or cream , especially on " fish days " , when the church placed restrictions on what foods could be eaten ( the most prominent of which were the days during lent ) . from <URL> In the Middle Ages , animal milk was , of course , not refrigerated , and fresh milk did not stay fresh for long . Most cooks simply did not use much milk as the short shelf-life of the product made it a difficult ingredient to depend upon ... Rather than animal milk , Medieval cooks turned to something they could depend upon , and that was the milky liquid produced by grinding almonds or walnuts . This liquid , high in natural fats , could be prepared fresh whenever needed in whatever quantities . It also could be made well ahead of time and stored with no danger of degeneration . Because of its high fat content , it , like animal milk , could be churned into butter , and because it was not animal milk , it could be used and consumed during Church designated meatless days . from <URL> Some dishes can not be made with this substitution , those that depend on the physical and chemical properties of milk - like cheese , or whipped cream . It would take a lot of processing and additives to make the almond milk mimic those products . However , both milks contain fats , proteins , and sugars in solution , and so behave similarly enough in the chemistry of cooking to make them easy substitutes . I will admit that while I cited medievalcookery.com and godecookery.com because the quotes were convenient , I posted my comment originally drawing from David Freedman and Elizabeth Cook 's " How to Milk an Almond , Stuff and Egg , and Armor a Turnip : A thousand years of recipes " which is very well researched and contains a number of period citations and recipes .
I 'd look towards a dutch oven and cake-like items : upside-down cakes cobblers / crisps / grunts / bettys / slumps / etc. . In all of these , the fruit on the bottom helps to protect from the bottom of the cake-like-item cooking too quickly . You can either cook directly in the dutch oven , or drop another pan inside the dutch oven to speed on cleaning if you 're going to be cooking a few of 'em . You 'll also want to look for dutch ovens that are made for baking -- they have a lip on the lid , so you can put coals on top and pull the lid without the ash falling into what you 're cooking .
Imitation vanilla extract is meant to be used in place of the real stuff , and most recipes probably assume you 're using the fake stuff anyway , so you would use 1 tsp . You only need to adjust the amount if you 're using something like twofold ( 2x ) extract .
end question
start question
Where can I find food-grade beeswax to make Canelé ?
@Adisak I was able to find one <URL> , although there may be many more . I also found food grade paraffin wax , but it seems that it has a much lower melting point . After a little reading it seems that making canelés can be a quite tricky and meticulous process , so you probably want to stick with the beeswax . They do sound delicious !
I can think of a few things , but I 'm not sure how well they 'd work for water bottles , specifically , as I do n't know what the temperature of the liquid is how long it needs to function as a container , and how long it needs to be on the shelf before use . ( and what liquid you 're using , so it does n't make things taste really foul ) . If we 're just using water , I 'd be inclined to use : Nut butters : ( eg , peanut butter ) The high oil content will repel water . Of course , if it 's being held for long times , you 'll have issues with rancidity . And it does n't really harden up at room temperature . Chocolate : so long as it 's not a hot liquid , it 'll resist water for quite a while . This is one case where ' coating chocolate ' may be better than real chocolate as it 's got a higher melting point . I personally would n't use honey as it 's water-soluble , and will start disolving into even a cold liquid .
There is a legal difference : according to Italian law , pasta ( which includes spaghetti ) is made only with durum wheat . Other countries also accept soft wheat . The difference is in the amount of protein ( mostly gluten ) : durum wheat has more , which in turn gives the pasta a somewhat snappier bite . Also , the cooked pasta stays eatable ( as in , non-mushy ) for a longer time . Moreover , some Italian pastas are extruded through traditional bronze dies that leave a slightly rougher surface that makes for better sauce adhesion . Avoid by all means all stupid Italian pastas made for tourists . Avoid stupid novelty shapes and ( most ) colored pastas . Some good brands with global distribution that will not let you down : Barilla , Agnesi , Garofalo , De Cecco ( thanks for the tip ) .
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
You need to use Kali Jeera rice available in most Patel stores or big indian stores . We were also looking for this and avoiding Kali Jeera thinking it is some black rice whereas it is not . This is rice used in Nor Malabar chicken biriyanis . And no need to mention that ghee rice or biriyani prepared with Kali Jeera rice tastes way better than normal Basmati rice .
Hey guys , since the question was posted they opened up <URL> , which specifically caters to this need . They supply chemicals for molecular gastronomy in consumer-sized portions . For $ 10 or less apiece , you can order small amounts of emulsifiers , gelling agents , foaming agents , etc. . They also have spherification kits , the Texturas products , and Molecule-R 's lineup .
My best recommendation is to taste as you go . Taste the initial product ... raw vegetable , ingredient from the can , bottle , etc. and then continue to taste and sample a dish throughout the cooking process to see how flavors develop/diminish and enhance one another through the cooking process . Learning to season food is a process of educating your palate and developing a " flavor memory " One of the most important factors is to use enough salt . Food that is properly seasoned with salt should n't taste salty but will have a brighter more vibrant flavor of the ingredients that are in the dish . Food must be cooked with salt for this to occur . Food that is seasoned at the table will merely taste salty as the salt does n't have a chance to dissolve and pull the juices out and help them mingle with one another as happens during cooking . The more of the basic flavor profiles that you can incorporate the more lively and flavorful anything will be . Even before cooking you can take a look at a recipe and " disect " its flavor profile by determining which ingredients will add sweetness , sourness , etc. . If you notice that it 's heavy in one direction or another , the flavor profile of the item ( s ) missing will likely improve the dish . Then it 's a matter of deciding what ingredient with that flavor profile would be best to add to that particular dish . Shameless ( but applicable to the question ) plug : If you 're ever in Savannah , GA I offer a class called " Flavor Dynamics " . It is focused entirely around understanding how flavor develops , what affects our perception of flavor , and how to create well rounded flavor in your food .
You can add a handful of pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds . You do n't need to adjust any of the other ingredients . Sunflower seeds contain a ton of good stuff , including fibre , according to <URL> : " In addition to linoleic acid ( an essential fatty acid ) , sunflower seeds are also an excellent source of dietary fiber , some amino acids ( especially tryptophan ) , Vitamin E , B Vitamins ( especially vitamin B1 or thiamine , vitamin B5 or pantothenic acid and folate ) , and minerals such as copper , manganese , potassium , magnesium , iron , phosphorus , selenium , calcium and zinc . [ 5 ] Additionally , they are rich in cholesterol-lowering phytosterols . "
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
They are a small , white , mildly flavored bean . You can use cannellini or navy beans instead .
Not authentic but a rice pudding cooked in coconut milk ( cardamom opt ) and chilled in individual portions is lovely with fresh fruit at the table . I had it served with passionfruit - lovely . Keep portions dainty after a full curry meal !
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
My mother had a similarly shaped pan with a lid that she 'd use for baking coffee cake and such when camping . It was all aluminum and much less complicated ( and likely not as useful ) as what your talking about . The closest thing I found is the <URL> . It looks they may be had for about $ 50 .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
Egg-whites in a carton are usually pasteurized . Pasteurized eggs are not great for meringue because the heat from the pasteurization process negatively affects the proteins in the whites that make for good meringue . With a lot of whipping ( and more cream of tartar or other stabilizers ) pasteurized egg whites ( whether from pasteurized eggs or from cartons ) can make meringue though it most likely wo n't be as stiff as those from non-pasteurized eggs . I would suggest getting regular eggs and trying to use the left-over yolks for something like creme brulee .
I do n't see why not , it 's the same process Many commercial brewers make a barley and rye malt for beer ( < 10 % rye ) . A good brewers supply shop should have rye malt too Rye is around ~ 40 % carbohydrate , while barley is ~ 45 % carbohydrate , so rye is not as sweet , but has a more interesting taste ( IMHO ) The differences for making malt rye over malt barley , assuming you have hulled rye : Rye absorbs water faster , so steep for less time ( ~ 30 % less ) Do not let it go mushy or it will not germinate Rye is more fragile with no hull and a thin " skin " . So must be handled more carefully once steeped . If it is damaged it wont germinate Lower germination rate ( due to above ) , so less conversion , so less sugars and flavour Otherwise just follow the normal malt barley process , which is well documented
@Adisak I was able to find one <URL> , although there may be many more . I also found food grade paraffin wax , but it seems that it has a much lower melting point . After a little reading it seems that making canelés can be a quite tricky and meticulous process , so you probably want to stick with the beeswax . They do sound delicious !
Most cakes freeze extremely well -- especially cakes that are not iced , such as bundt cakes . Wrap the cake in plastic wrap , then aluminum foil , and freeze . For cupcakes or slices , you can put them in a freezer bag . If you are going to freeze a whole cake , it is better to frost it after thawing , as the icing can be tricky . If you have icing , you can put the cake in the freezer long enough for the icing to br firm , and then wrap and freeze -- however , thawing can be tricky as you might get a bit of condensation , which can affect the texture of the frosting . EDIT in response to question about a plastic box , and why the double layering : Boxes consume space extra space , often at a premium in a freezer , and offer air gaps in which freezer burn is more likely . Not all plastic is food-safe . The food-safe plastic wrap is for direct contact with the cake but is gas permeable . I suppose you could just go directly to foil , but things are more likely to stick to it . The foil provides a gas and moisture barrier ( and light , but that is less of a problem in the freezer ) . The direct contact with the with the cake eliminates the air gaps , making freezer burn much less likely .
Soda-like drinks have traditionally been made in the same way as beer , but with less fermentation to keep the alcohol content low . Without alcohol , ( and with a bunch of protein and fat around from the yogurt ) you run the risk of growing some <URL> in your soda . Some traditional fermentation techniques carry risk of botulism , and any ' new ' technique should undertaken very carefully . That being said , your soda should be quite acidic and probably safe . Get some pH paper and use it ! There are a few things I would change in this plan : Yogurt is made at fairly high temperatures to encourage lactobacillus growth while inhibiting others . Find out the best temperature for your culture , and make sure you can maintain it during fermentation . Try get the culture growing independent of any yogurt : grow it in your sugar/lemon solution for a few generations without pressure and with a bit of oxygen . If it 's still alive and still tastes good , you 're probably OK . Otherwise , if the culture dies halfway through fermentation , something else is likely to grow in its place :-( Lemon juice is quite acidic , and will clean metals quite nicely . So do n't put your soda in any metal container unless your really like the taste of iron . ( Even beer is acidic enough to cause this problem , fermentation is always in glass , plastic or stainless steel ) . Used plastic soda bottles work well when clean . The other major problem with a pressure cooker is getting the soda out : if the cooker did hold pressure from a fermentation ( actually it will probably leak CO2 faster than it is made ) you should n't be able to open it until the pressure is removed . Again , soda bottles are a good choice here . Last - your water should not be chlorinated , the flavor of your soda could be ruined by chlorine .
end question
start question
How much sauce do you need per person ?
There are a few factors that could effect this : 1 ) How the meat is cooked and how lean or fatty it is . If you overcook the meat ( although I doubt that you would ! ) or if it 's leaner or fattier . If its a fattier meat add say an extra 2 tbsps or so of sauce and if it 's leaner ( or overcooked ) I would add a tbsp or so less of sauce . 2 ) The viscosity and composition of the sauce . If it 's a white wine sauce ( thinner , less rich ) you would want to add more , however if it 's a hollondaise sauce ( thicker , richer ) you may want less . 3 ) Opinion , some people like more sauce , some people like less . It may depend on the type of sauce which you may want more or less of . Saying this I would say around 4 tbsp of sauce , then account for the additions and your own personal preference . Any more sauce and it may become swamped , any less and you will not have enough sauce to taste or keep the meat moist . It is a very subjective subject so do keep that in mind .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
There are lots of different techniques for preparing rice , and all are equally valid . They do lead to different results , but it is up to you do decide which one you prefer . There is not one " right " way we can recommend over the other . Yes , there is a noticeable difference . Rice pre-fried in fat has a different texture . It is less fluffy , and can be even slightly slimy if cooked in too much water . It does not dry out as quickly as rice cooked in watery liquid only . It also has a slightly different taste , especially if you use a non-neutral oil . But this difference in aroma may be too subtle to notice if your paella is heavily seasoned , it is most pronounced when the rice is cooked on its own and served as a side .
The answer is that it will depend on your personal preference for the strength of your coffee , the beans themselves , the type of brewing , and so on . Many coffee bean bags have a reference on the side of them . The standard guideline for most medium roast coffee bean bags is 2 tablespoons per 6 fl . oz . ( 1 cup in your liquid measuring cup ) . The Specialty Coffee Association of America has some interesting info on this , per this <URL> . What the Specialty Coffee Association of America ( SCAA ) has to say : A cup is defined as 6 ounces of water before brewing . This will produce 5.33 ounces of brewed coffee . Or 125 ml &amp; 110 ml for Euro style coffee makers The SCAA defines 10 grams or .36 oz per cup as the proper measure for brewed coffee if using the American standards . If using Euro standards the measure is 7 grams per 125 ml . To further confuse things I will add a few more measures : 3.75 oz per 1/2 gallon 55 grams per liter 2.25 gallons per 1 lb . If you want to know more check the SCAA 's web page at www.scaa.org .
Thank you to everyone for your great advice . I ended up using a combination of everyone 's answers . I prepared the meatballs the night before and cooked them in the oven as per usual . I stored them overnight in the fridge in a large ice cream tub , rather than refrigerating the crock . ( Thanks for that tip Joe and MargeGunderson . ) In the morning , I combined everything in the crock pot and brought it to work . I started the crock pot on low at 8am . Everything was already cooked , so no need to worry there . The meatballs were heated through by noon . ( Thanks everyone for the tip on starting early . Thanks nico for the assurance on " mush " . ) Now , time for lunch !
Maybe ! Flour is unusually variable in how densely it will settle , so this can make a big difference for some recipes . The purpose of sifting is to make the amount of flour in a given volume reliable . ( If you are measuring by weight , you do n't need to sift . ) By moving around the sifted flour , or pouring it from one container into another , you are changing the way it is packed . Therefore , you can easily " unsift " it in the course of normal handling . Proper sifting is done straight into the measuring device .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Sometimes the outer leaves are a bit leathery ( especially if the quality is n't too god ) . When that 's the case I remove them first . Next , I remove the green stalks -- but Jefromi is right , the tiny leaves are delicious . The kernel in the middle near the base of the fennel bulb is very hard . I usually cut it out by halving the bulb along its length and making two incisions with a sharp knife on either side of the kernel . I chop the rest of the bulb so that it yields thin concentric slices .
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
Brining is great to begin with . Use a bone-in , skin on chicken breast . Once it 's done you can remove the skin and carve off the bone if you like . Also , set up 2 heat zones in your grill ( either by banking your coals or by turning off a gas burner ) . Brown it for a few minutes over the hot zone , then transfer to the cooler zone to finish cooking , until temp comes to 165-170 degrees . Then remove from heat and wait at least 5 minutes to slice .
If the banana flower was astringent it is because of the flower , not the cooking method . When the flowers are large and young they taste a lot better . If you wait until the bananas are formed and the stem to the flower is long then it will be astringent . The best time to pick the flower is when the stem is 10cm or less from the banana bunch . If the flower is old it will not be as good . The variety of banana will also influence the taste of the flower . Sugar bananas often have the best flowers . You can eat the pink section but it is not as pleasant as the white section . If you eat the small individual flowers you need to take out the stepal in the centre which is incredibly time consuming . Putting the banana flower in lime water is simply to stop it going brown before you cook it . It does not significantly change the flavour . There are many ways to cook banana flower . Here is my preferred method . Peel the flower until you come to the white centre . Discard the red outer section and the individual flowers hidden within this . I like to quarter the centre and then I place in boiling water and simmer for 15 minutes with some salt . For me it is delicious just like this with some lime , but from here you can put it in a cooked curry , salad etc
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
Unless there is local regulation that requires labelling of items unsafe for raw consumption , the only 100 % sure way would be to ask the manufacturer . However , a non-perishable sauce being unsafe without being boiled , but safe if doing so ( just reheating will not matter much anyway ! ) , would be an odd enough ingredient that you could expect a warning on the label . If there was a severe risk of microbial problems , that would either spoil the sauce right in the bottle , or make it unsafe in a way that heat will not fix . Non-perishable but unsafe raw is more typical of DRY goods , since they can perfectly well harbor spores or small amount of bacteria without actively spoiling .
Pepper sauces usually deliver an aroma ( from the peppers ) , some sweet/sour/salty element ( from the pickling ingredients mostly ) , and heat ( from the peppers ) . A hotter pepper will not necessarily be stronger in aroma , so using this kind of super hot pepper alone can end you up with a sauce that is hot but poor in flavor . Also , given that capsaicin is very soluble in fat but not very soluble in water/vinegar , such a sauce will have a very uneven distribution of heat and will likely end up with a very harsh , unpleasant heat no matter how diluted - similar to throwing chile powder into a lean soup .
Depends on what you 're juicing . If you 're juicing something like a lemon/lime for lemon/limeade , you can just strategically slice and squeeze to get all but a couple mLs of juice . If you 're juicing something like an apple , you can cook it slightly and then use your food processor to make apple sauce , which can these be squeezed through a cheesecloth/pillowcase for a great deal of juice . For everything else ( practically at least ) , a manual juicer ( like <URL> ) will do just fine and cost a maybe a few bucks .
You probably misread the recipe . It 's suggested that dry beans soak overnight so that they cook in a reasonable amount of time the next day ( unless you use a pressure cooker . ) There is no need to soak barley , pearled or not . It 's my guess that you mistook the bean soaking for barley in the recipe . That , or it 's a typo .
My grounds bin has a lid . So while the grounds still collect static , they do n't fly all over the place when I remove the bin from the grinder . Giving the bin few sharp taps on the counter top prior to opening seems to shake off most of what clings to the top and sides . Then I tap out the grounds , wipe out the bin with a napkin , and I 'm ready for the next morning . Beyond that , try switching up your coffee . The cheap " 8 O'Clock " stuff I keep on reserve is terribly staticy , while the beans I roast myself do n't have nearly the trouble . I tend to enjoy a lighter roast , so keep that in mind - you might benefit from grinding beans with just a bit higher moisture content ( of course , if you have a strong preference for dark roasts , this does n't help much ) .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
Use about 2-3tbsp for a ' normal portion ' , and reduce that by the same factor as you reduce the portion for your daughter , e.g. if your daughter 's portion is half the size , use 1tbsp . Remember you can always add oil , but you ca n't take it away ( not easily anyway ) , so err on the side of caution and whack a bit more in if it seems necessary .
end question
start question
Which side of the baking paper should face up ?
Baking paper has a silicone coating to prevent sticking . If yours is only coated on one side ( the waxy side ) , this side should touch the food .
Yes , recipes need to be changed as well . The most important [ IMHO ] difference is leavening ( yeast/baking powder/soda etc. ) The next issue is ratios , once you get beyond ' doubling ' a home recipe your ratios will get out of sync . When you multiply dry ingredients ( other than yeast ) do so By Weight rather than dry measure . ( note for sugars in a yeast leavened recipe : sugar is often ' treated as ' a ' wet ingredient ' , still multiply by weight , this will provide the correct amount of food for the yeast ) Rule of thumb for yeast baking is to multiply everything but DO NOT multiply the yeast for doing 2X or 4X . When you are increasing the recipe by 8X you double the original amount of yeast . Your rising time may increase but that also happens with temperature variations . Rule of thumb for chemical leavening is to multiply carefully ALL ingredients . If using baking soda and acid , sift the baking soda with flour and mix the acid ( vinegar , lemon juice , sour milk ) with other liquid ingredients . That way you do n't lose rising power when mixing more dough . But for chemical leavening , you have to bake the mix without it sitting around . So you might weigh and set up 4X , 4X , 4X if you need 12X yield . [ from <URL> Home sized recipes can usually only be doubled safely . Beyond that , due to rounding , the ratios within the recipe will get out of sync . We have a number of pro resources here , take a look : <URL> ( <URL> ) These are , obviously , only ' general guidelines , your mileage may vary with any given recipe .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
The quote in your question is clearly aimed at eggs that are mixed ( ie omelettes , scrambled eggs etc ) before cooking , not for whole eggs sunny side up . The benefits of adding more water is to slow down the cooking of those mixed eggs . If you add a liquid , water or milk , you 'll be poaching the eggs rather than frying them in fat or oil as most sunny side up eggs are cooked . If poaching is what you want to do , there 's plenty of instructions on how to do this out on the web . Poached eggs are equally as good if not nicer than fried ' sunny side up ' ones in my opinion .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
Common names of plants are a very unclear matter . There are big differences not only between languages , but also regional differences within a single language . There are lots of ( closely related ) plants which are sold under the name blueberry . And probably not even the person who grew ( or gathered ) them can tell you the exact species . While it does matter when it comes to jam ( for the same reason it matters whether you use Roma tomatoes or Cherry tomatoes for a sauce ) it is highly improbable to find a source which can consistently provide you with a specific known variety . Also , you probably have to study some very specified botanical literature and be provided with parts of the plant other than the berries in order to be able to identify the type with some degree of accuracy . On the other hand , do n't let that come in the way of good jam . Blood orange marmelade may taste different than bitter orange marmelade , but both are good . The same goes for blueberries : you can use any variety , even if some of them would be a bit better on their own . What you need for a jam is a good sweetness to acid ratio , the proper amount of pectin , and as much aroma as possible . A softer texture also helps to prevent unpleasant lumps . So generally , you want to go with the ripest fruit available . They are soft , and have the fullest aroma . This is something you might want to consider with your current source of berries : maybe they 're not a special " green on the inside " variety , but only underripe . If they do n't taste very sweet , and their aroma is n't very complex , I 'd try to find other sources . Farmer 's markets and organic stores are usually able to sell much better fruits ( because they cater to a picky , price-inelastic clientelle ) , but of course they cost a lot too . Sweet fruit is always good , but you need enough sugar added for food safety . A ratio of 2:1 ( fruit to sugar ) can still be kept in the pantry , more fruit than that and you need to refrigerate the unopened glasses too . With blueburries , you 'll need to add both pectin ( to get the jam to gel ) and acid ( to get the pectin to work ) . This is the part which will vary with fruit variety : more watery types will need more pectin , and less acidic types will need more acid . If you want a good quality jam , you 'll need to do some experiments until you get the proportions right . If not , you can buy " jam sugar " or however it is called in your country - this is sugar with pectin and acid already added . It wo n't have the perfect ratio for your fruit , but it will more or less work . But then , if this quality is enough for you , you can skip buying the expensive berries and slaving at the stove , and buy manufactured jam .
Fondant is nearly solid -- it 's rolled out , and placed onto the cake ( with a buttercream underneath as an adhesive ) . The advantage is that it goes on really quickly and smoothly over large items . It can also be cut into shapes with rather clean edges ( modeling chocolate gives sharper edges , but it 's not flexible enough to cover a round cake ) . You often see it on professional non-traditional cakes ( more novelties , when they need a solid color or something that 's strangely shaped . Fondant can also be used to give a solid background can then be piped into ( with buttercream icing , generally ) or painted . As it 's nearly solid , it can also be worked like you would clay to make decorations . Royal icing dries hard as it has no fat in it . It 's generally only used on cakes as a drizzle where you 're not attempting to cover the entire cake . You 'll often see it used on bundt cakes , but you more frequently see it used for cookies when you 're doing a flood-fill . Buttercream icings ( commonly called ' frosting ' in the US ) is likely the most standard for non-professional stacked cakes . It 's spread on , so it takes a little more work to get a clean smooth surface . ( the trick is to wait 'til the surface has hardened , put down some waxed paper , then smooth out all of the spatula marks ... you need to wait 'til the waxed paper does n't stick , but not so long that it has n't set up completely ) . You can also use buttercream in pastry bags to create flowers , ropes , basketweave and other decorations . ... And then there 's other frostings/icings , too , but they 're not as general purpose . They generally go with specific types of cakes -- caramel and other cooked frostings ( eg , used in ' German Chocolate Cake ' ) , cream cheese frosting ( for carrot and other spice cakes ) , whipped cream ( used in black forest cake &amp; strawberry shortcake )
The chai tea latte at Starbucks is made from the <URL> concentrate . This product is available at supermarkets and online , and is mixed with milk to make a product not unlike what you have at Starbucks ( minus the foam , as you pointed out ) . So , what are these flavors ( say , if you wanted to make this from scratch ) ? The website mentions that the black tea is malty . You could likely reproduce that with a maltier tea like Assam , though the box also says a " a rich blend of flavorful teas " , meaning that a stronger blend like English Breakfast might be a closer match . It looks like you are on the right track with the spices as well : cinnamon , ginger , cardamom , and cloves are all listed , though the website mentions black pepper , star anise , and vanilla in addition , which ought to lift your cup of chai a bit as well .
What you want is cream with 35 % -40 % milkfat , and no gelatine or other stabilizers for whipping . If you use a lighter cream , then it will not have the rich , creamy texture , and evenly thick consistency you seek . In fact , if you use a light enough cream , it will not thicken properly . Now we enter the murky realm of regional naming differences , trying to find the appropriate kind of cream ! In Australia , this would be called pure cream ( 35-56 % milkfat ) ... which might be the same as " cooking thickened cream . " Read the label and make sure it is just cream , not gelatin or foam stabilizers like " thickened cream " . It could also be labelled " single cream " too ( ~ 35 % milkfat ) . In America , we call it heavy cream , or heavy whipping cream , and it is defined as 35 % + milkfat , and is generally around 38 % . In the UK , <URL> I found the uses a mixture of milk and " double cream " ( cream with 48 % + milkfat ) . They mix 100 mL whole fat milk + 426 mL of double cream . The final milkfat content is somewhere around 40 % . In the rest of the EU , the same procedure appears to be the best bet , since I ca n't find clear names for heavier creams besides double cream ( which appears to be the same as the UK ) . Edit : You may also be able to get a good result using straight double cream . I 'm looking at a French recipe that uses it . The catch is , of course , that while the minimum fat content is specified , actual fat content in double cream can vary considerably , potentially giving erratic results .
Cakes are where sifting can make a significant difference . See <URL> book , she goes into it in detail .
Do n't use the pizza stone for cookies . Stones absorb a ton of your oven 's heat and will really mess up your baking times . They 're designed to be preheated in your oven before you ever put a pizza ( or other item ) on them . I have never tried it before but you might be able to use the pizza stone if you preheated it but then you have to put your cookies on a hot surface which may cause them to misbehave in other ways . Cookies should be baked on light-toned heavy-duty metal baking sheets ( or as close as you can get to that ) because the metal transfers the heat , it does n't absorb it . That 's how you get well-baked cookies .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
You 've got some nice crunch and texture profiles in there already , but I tend towards always making a side dish to try to cover my bases in terms of getting plenty of options for people who might not like ( or feel like eating ) the main dish . My go to is a nice crusty bread with an unusual spread , but since you are going Asian-inspired here I would recommend something like rice paper spring rolls or to like an Indian-style samosa with a complimentary flavored potato filling .
This is a little hard to do without making an epic mess . First , lay out a big piece of parchment or wax paper to catch the sprinkles that you are about to throw everywhere . Place your cake on it 's platter over the parchment paper and tilt it so that you can apply sprinkles to the uppermost side . Do n't tilt it so far that it slides off ! Apply the sprinkles with your free hand , pressing them gently into the frosting ( some suggest wearing a glove , I do n't ) . Turn , and repeat . Periodically collect all your sprinkles from the parchment paper .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
1 . Chemical leaveners There are two " oldfashioned " chemical leaveners , both still used today in traditional German and Scandinavian gingerbread recipes : Potassium carbonate ( potash or pearl ash ) and Ammonium bicarbonate ( salt of heartshorn ) They do have their own quirks and pitfalls , but if nothing else is available ... If you can get baking soda , mix with cream of tartar to make baking powder . If your store does not stock it , you pharmacy most likely will carry " sodium hydrogen carbonate " ( which is another name for baking soda ) either as treatment for heartburn , it 's an antacid ( because it reacts with acid , neutralzing it and making these nice bubbles , as we know from baking ... ) or as topical treatment for allergic reactions of the skin ( poison ivy and others ) . 2 . Biological leaveners This boils down to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , aka . baker 's yeast or brewer 's yeast . Of course you get very different results and have to follow a different procedure . But here are some recipes where they are used somewhat interchangeably , e.g. some types of pancakes or waffles and , obviously , bread ( vs. sodabread ) . The charming thing about yeast is , that if your are really , really far from a store , you can still get your hands on yeast : Start a sourdough using the yeasts naturally occuring on fruits or the air around you . Probably not the kind of substitution you had in mind , though . 3 . No leaveners With good technique , you can incorporate a lot of air ( because that 's what all leaveners are supposed to do ) in your baking goods by whipping your eggs well . There are various approaches : You can whip the whole eggs . Whip the yolks ( with hot water or over a water bath to stabilize them ) to Zabaione-like consistency . Whip the whites and fold into your batter . You will want to bake these batters right away before the bubbles get a chance to burst . The air will expand during baking and the hardening egg/flour-mixture will trap them in the baked goods . Contrary to many recipes out there there is no real need to bake a pound cake or even sponge cake with baking powder if it 's done right . Other recipes without leavener ( or rather with the egg trapping steam generated by a rather high water content ) are the members of the popover family ( Yorkshire pudding in the UK , Pfitzauf in Swabia , some dutch pancakes ) and pâté a choux . Puff pastry relies on thin layers of butter separating the layers of floury dough and trapping steam between them .
Probably generated some <URL> by reaction between the hot bleach and proteins on the stove surfaces . There 's no telling exactly which chloramines you created , as we have no idea what amines were on your stove top . However , <URL> . Open windows if possible , and leave home for several hours . Your eyes and lungs are giving you important warnings . Heed them .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
end question
start question
Is that bechamel that Gordon Ramsay is adding to the lasagna ?
Gordon says " white sauce " , which is a simpler term for bechamel-based sauces and is quite common when making lasagna . Yet the stuff that gets stirred in the bowl looks somewhat " fluffier " than classic bechamel and when it 's piped has a " raggedness " that plain bechamel does n't have , but smoother that pure ricotta . My conclusion : it 's hard to say for certain , but to me it looks like a mixture of both .
Very simply , bake it for the recommended time in the recipe . Then if it looks golden brown ( note that if the air in the oven is not humid enough the bread may stay pale , on a side note a humid oven helps to develop a good crust ) , tap it in on it 's base and if it sounds hollow its done . If it feels soft in the base and not hollow or If its still not golden brown , put it back in the oven for a few minutes then try the tap check again . Although you stated you dislike the thermometer technique , for others reading the bread should have an internal temperature of 200F or 94C , if not return it to the oven for a few minutes until it is .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
Gordon says " white sauce " , which is a simpler term for bechamel-based sauces and is quite common when making lasagna . Yet the stuff that gets stirred in the bowl looks somewhat " fluffier " than classic bechamel and when it 's piped has a " raggedness " that plain bechamel does n't have , but smoother that pure ricotta . My conclusion : it 's hard to say for certain , but to me it looks like a mixture of both .
Seems almost every question about bacteria seems to bring about both the bacteriophobes and the cavalier . In this case , the cavalier are probably closer to being right , but I 'll try to present the facts so that you can decide for yourself . The most common microbe groups responsible for household food poisoning are : Salmonella , found in poultry , <URL> the <URL> . CDT can be denatured ( technically , " heat-labile " ) but is one of the most resistant toxins , taking <URL> to destroy . This type of bacteria is n't normally associated with eggs , but since chicken eggs and other poultry products may be handled in the same area , it 's not unthinkable that the shells could become contaminated - and depending on how you handle the eggs , so could the frying pan . E.Coli is normally associated with beef but is also <URL> . It 's improbable , but not impossible for it to be <URL> as well . This is a bit of a weird one because <URL> , but not in the yolk itself or the frying pan . The strains of e.coli associated with food poisoning encode <URL> ( SLT ) and also <URL> , the latter of which are often heat stable . I 'm not sure about SLT , but the STs can <URL> . <URL> ( causing Campylobacteriosis ) produces certain enterotoxins and <URL> . As above , these tend to be heat-resistant . <URL> is responsible for for botulism and is ubiquitous . The spores are incredibly difficult to kill but they are also only harmful to infants and the immunodepressed . More importantly , the bacteria are killed by heating to 85 ° C for 5 minutes and are also anaerobic - meaning they can only grow when they are not exposed to air . In other words , these may be present , but wo n't grow and produce toxins on a reasonably clean pan . <URL> is one of the most common sources of food poisoning , and I believe is actually what drives a lot of the specific food safety/food inspection rules . The spores are very heat resistant ( can survive boiling for a full hour ) , and even though it is anaerobic , <URL> . It can grow on a pan - just more slowly than it would grow in an enclosed container or in raw/fresh food . <URL> causes staph infections but also produces heat-resistant enterotoxins . It does n't generally come from food , but more than 20 % of humans are carriers , and also many pets ( cats and dogs ) , so it is very likely in your household somewhere and can easily get on your frying pan and multiply on leftover food bits . <URL> is less common but very resilient ( they 're known for " fried rice syndrome " because they can survive steaming ) and afterward produce spores and heat-resistant enterotoxins . Important to note that many strains of this are harmless - but not all . <URL> causes ( as you may have guessed ) cholera symptoms which come from CTX and TCP toxins . Both of these are heat-labile although I was n't able to find a time/temperature data point . Chances are , you have at least one these friends in your kitchen . Chances are , you have several . The question is , did enough of them manage to get onto your frying pan after your last meal to produce dangerous levels of toxins ? Probably not . It 's really very unlikely . But it is possible , and you 're taking a chance if you do n't wash your dishes . In fact , it 's probably more dangerous with eggs , because typically you 'd cook eggs only up to a temperature of around 70 ° C , at most ( 63 ° is the temperature at which they set ) . So day after day you 're bringing all those lovely bacteria right into the <URL> for several minutes and not staying above it for very long at all ! Doing this one time ... really not a big deal . Bacteria do n't get to multiply much in the 5 minutes ( or less ) it takes to fry an egg , and most eggs are n't even contaminated to begin with , although <URL> . But doing this several times , day after day - you 're increasing your risk each day because the pan may never get hot enough , long enough , to kill all of the new bacteria from the day before . I would strongly recommend that you wash your pans after use . You do n't need to use soap if they 're cast-iron ; a good scrub with salt and hot water is fine . But please - especially if you 're going to be cooking for guests - do n't just leave the dirty pans sitting there and use them again the next day without washing them first . It 's not safe . P.S. I 'd like to draw attention to the fact that of all of the items in the list above , botulism , despite having some of the worst symptoms , is generally the least of your worries . Both the bacteria and the toxin are easy to kill , and the spores are harmless to healthy adults . So if you hear people on this site or any site talk about food safety entirely in terms of botulism and the temperatures required to kill/inactivate the bacteria/toxin , ignore them , because they have n't done their homework .
The notion that salt or spices specifically do n't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me . In any recipe involving salt and water , the salt is dissolved , so all that matters is the concentration , and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling . Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x . When you take into account that : Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat , humidity , and other environmental conditions , so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale ; Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio ; that part is correct , but it has nothing to do with salt , it has to do with your equipment . On the stovetop , most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction , and even in an oven you 've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern . Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation . The total amount of heat you 're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver , so very often you need to increase cooking times . I 'm sure you probably already know all this , but the reason I 'm pointing it all out is that I 'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues . Probably , salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes , and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time , so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy , especially with volumetric measurements , is actually pretty noticeable at large scale . Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense . Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements , and you scale by weight , then you 're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly . I suppose I could be wrong , but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry ; you 'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true .
Yes , they are most likely to be denatured protein . It is feasible that they also contain some other matter like stray pieces of vegetable , but the bulk should be the protein . When the particles are small enough , they are agitated in the boiling water and become a suspension . When you let them rest , they slowly find their way to the bottom , due to gravity . So , the answer to your other questions is yes and yes . Are you approaching consomme when you filter them out ? Yes , you do . Are you removing flavor ? Also yes . After all , it 's not the water that flavors the stock , it 's what remains in it from the veal . While the pure protein does n't have much flavor by itself , enough stuff tends to stick to it to make it flavorful . Consomme is made clear for presentation purposes and for texture , not for flavor . The loss is slight , but it is a loss , not a gain . It is up to you to decide which stock you prefer , the filtered or unfiltered version , there is no single " best " answer .
No . The per-serving nutrition numbers are rounded and only reflect the value for a single serving . A value of 0 simply means " less than 0.5 mg " in a single serving .
While not an exact match , <URL> indicates up to 2 days for an apple pie at room temperature ; one would expect the baked apple to have similar properties . So yes , I would expect eating your baked apple the next day should be fine . I would not hold them much longer than that , though , as the cooking helps bring out moisture which will foster growth of molds over time .
There are many , many ways to make lasagna , so there can not be one single answer . You have to ask yourself , what is the goal of a good lasagna ? It is not to feature the individual components that make up the layers , but rather to have a cohesive , unified experience . The order layering is more for visual effect than to control how the ingredients taste . However , if the contribution of your other ingredients is not coming through , they may not be bold enough to stand up to the cheeses , pasta , and sauces ( none of which are usually very bold ) and still hold their own . Some of the common accent ingredients in lasgana commonly include : Bolognese sauce , or another ragu type sauce , with a strong , meaty flavor from long cooking . A spicy sausage or salumi Also , make sure each component is properly and individually seasoned , to taste its best . Each component should also be treated properly to bring out its best flavor ( long slow braising for ragu , good browning for sausage , and so on ) . These ingredients are aggressively flavored , and while they should n't dominate the casserole , they should come through as part of the overall flavor .
IMO , this really would have greater lasting value with a single detailed answer instead of a poll . Here 's an annotated list of all the recommendations so far : <URL> ( Harold McGee ) is all science at a very detailed level , combining food chemistry and biology and explaining the interactions between ingredients and the mechanisms behind various cooking methods . If you 're looking for a pure science book , this is it . <URL> and <URL> by Alton Brown . His books are less technical/scientific than other authors and tend to focus more on application , making them more accessible to less hardcore cooks . <URL> ( Shirley O. Corriher ) . Written by a biochemist who has done a lot of consulting in the food industry . This is more practical than McGee and more technical than Alton 's books . It also includes a ton of recipes , which can be a good thing or bad thing depending on your personal preferences . She has also written a baking version , <URL> . <URL> ( Hervé This , translated by Malcolm DeBevoise ) . This is more of a niche book ( about - surprise - Molecular Gastronomy ) and as you might expect is a little French-centric . What 's really great about this book is how it debunks a lot of popular cooking myths with actual controlled experiments and hard data . It would n't be my first choice to recommend to a Food Science newbie , but nevertheless a good one to add to your collection . <URL> ( Heston Blumenthal ) . Written by the founder of the Fat Duck Restaurant in the UK . It 's about the history of the Fat Duck and has a big recipe collection ( from the restaurant , obviously ) and a section at the end dedicated to food science . This one 's really for the advanced crowd as it involves a lot of molecular gastronomy , sous-vide and other esoterica - complex preparations , hard-to-find ingredients and unusual/expensive equipment . <URL> ( Jeff Potter ) is , as the title implies , written to appeal to geeks , and as such has a certain amount of science but tends to be quite a bit more basic as far as actual cooking technique goes . It 's more " applied science . " Honestly , I would n't recommend this for very experienced cooks , but it 's great for getting into cooking and gaining an enthusiasm for it ( if you 're kind of a geek ) . <URL> is a web site , not a book , which has the obvious advantage of being free and searchable . It 's hard to really define this as its scope is so wide , but I will say that I 've found it to be a surprisingly useful and detailed resource whenever I need to find out something quickly . <URL> ( Robert L. Wolke ) is also mostly on the science itself but is written to be more accessible to the layperson . As one reviewer on Amazon put it , Wolke is like the Bill Nye of Food Science . One part science , two parts entertainment . <URL> has criticized it for making unproven claims ( particularly on nutrition ) . The <URL> annuals ( from America 's Test Kitchen ) are less about the actual chemistry of food but do highlight a very scientific approach to cooking based on up-front research , experimentation and testing . See <URL> for a more detailed explanation . <URL> ( Peter Barham ) focuses on the chemistry and physics of why some recipes work and some fail . <URL> - on the surface it 's about molecular gastronomy , but you 'll find much of the science of cooking ( e.g. the chemistry behind " working " flavour pairings etc ) on there too .
Al dente cooking is a transitional state that lasts for a very short amount of time ( one minute longer in boiling water makes pasta too soft , one minute shorter and it 's still crunchy ) . For this reason , authentic Italian pasta packages state a precise cooking time , which is very reliable to make a good al dente pasta . A cooking time interval ( e.g. " 7 to 10 minutes " ) is usually given to accommodate to other countries taste , who may prefer a softer pasta , and therefore its presence could be a good indicator of an Italian look-alike pasta brand . In this case the lower figure indicates the al dente cooking . Lacking this information , a good cooking time can be figured by cross section size , length and shape of pasta : obviously , thicker and squat formats require more time . Complex shapes , such as farfalle , can be trickier because a thick core could reach the al dente cooking while the thinner edges are already too soft . As a rule of thumb , cooking times for common pasta formats are : Long and very thin ( spaghettini , bavette ) : 6 min Long and thin ( spaghetti , linguine , bucatini ) : 8 min Short and thick ( maccheroni , rigatoni , fusilli ) : 12 min Small and thick ( farfalle ) : 8 min Small and thin ( pasta usually boiled straight into broth ) : 6 min These cooking times apply only for dry durum-wheat pasta ; other types ( such as fresh egg pasta ) usually have a shorter cooking time . After straining the boiling water , pasta continues to cook by its own heat ; for this reason it has to be eaten as soon as possible . Only for some Italian regional recipes ( typically pasta boiled straight into a thick vegetable juice , e.g. pasta with beans , pasta with potatoes ) you may want to let it rest for up to 5 minutes after straining to let the juices coagulate . Also , for recipes where pasta has to undergo a second cooking after boiling ( e.g. stir frying in a pan with vegetables , shrimps , mushrooms , etc. ) a better result is obtained by boiling pasta just one minute less than the cooking time given on the package .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
There is empirical support for the effect of temperature on pitting corrosion , although from what little I 'm able to understand of the very complicated metallurgy , the common explanation given is far too simplistic and the actual behaviour is not nearly as clear-cut as " colder = more salt crystals = more pitting " , but rather due to something called transpassive dissolution ( searching for this will give you lots of scholarly results on stainless steel corrosion ) . I 'll get straight to the point by referencing this <URL> from the Metals Handbook ( textbook ) which has the following convenient graph : More pitting happens at lower temperatures . As the link explains : At low temperatures , extremely high breakdown potentials are observed , corresponding to transpassive dissolution , not localized corrosion . Just above the critical pitting temperature ( CPT ) , pitting corrosion occurs at a potential that is far below the transpassive breakdown potential . But you can see from the graph that that 's not the whole story , either . Excluding what happens at very high temperatures ( above the CPT ) , the impact of temperature looks to be maybe 20-30 % , but there are much more significant variations based on other factors , the most notable kitchen-applicable examples being the material ( described as the <URL> - Pitting Resistance Equivalent Number ) , surface condition ( grit ) , and inhibitor elements in the solution ( traces of which may or may not be found in tap water ) . While this does certainly support the conclusion , it 's also obvious , if you read the explanation of pitting or look at the lovely reaction diagram on page 2 of the textbook link , that it has literally nothing to do with undissolved salt . In fact , pitting is caused by the Cl - ions specifically , and so can only happen after it is dissolved in the water . If you just poured salt on a dry pan in a dry environment , it should n't corrode . Moreover , pitting is a <URL> - it 's quite literally random even when you know all the other parameters , so while one can certainly average it out over many experiments and thus quantify the correlation with temperature , that ends up having little meaning in a kitchen setting because you are cooking with one pan/pot and the random variation seems to be a lot more profound than the effect of the temperature variable . Anyway , in case anyone was thinking that it sounds pretty simple so far - it 's not . The experiment that produced the graph above was performed under one set of conditions - using just salt , water , and stainless steel . While that 's certainly comparable to cooking , it 's interesting to see what <URL> ( Inﬂuence of the electrolyte composition and temperature on the transpassive dissolution of austenitic stainless steels in simulated bleaching solutions - PDF warning ) says about oxalic acid : The addition of oxalic acid has accordingly a much bigger impact on the transpassive corrosion rate at 70 ° C than at room temperature [ ... ] In the solutions containing organic additives at 70 ° C , transpassive oxidation starts at significantly lower potentials than at room temperature . In case you 're not familiar with oxalic acid - or wondering why you should care - it 's the primary ingredient in <URL> , which many " premium " stainless steel cookware brands such as All Clad recommend using to clean your cookware - and nearly every cleaning guide recommends warm , but not hot , water . Admittedly , I just looked at the label and BKF does n't specify a temperature , so the warm-water recommendation is entirely anecdotal - but looking at the above , it makes sense ; you want to use warm water in order for it to be more effective , but using hot water ( or even warm water for more than a minute or so ) increases the risk of corrosion , especially if what you 're trying to clean is caked-on salt or charred food . The effect of pH is more generally supported by <URL> , where neutral is better ( i.e. less corrosion ) , not to mention that strong acids cause the other type of corrosion ( called intergranular ) , and <URL> , although the effect is very slow , but still appreciable over time if you like to deglaze with boiling vinegar , for example . Even of the type of salt makes a big difference , if you scroll further down on that same previous link . Ammonium chloride is , for example , often found in sea salt , and it would appear to cause pitting corrosion much faster than the sodium chloride in table salt or kosher salt . Here 's what really does matter in a practical sense : Pitting is a reduction reaction , it 's caused by a lack of oxygen available to the metal surface - unlike , for example , rust , which is caused by oxygen . Quoting the last link : If debris of any kind is allowed to accumulate on the surfaces of stainless steel equipment , it will reduce the accessibility of oxygen to the covered areas and pits may develop in such locations because of the reduced oxygen concentration . [ ... ] ... carbon deposits from heated organic compounds are typical examples of t
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
You can crisp them up again in a hot oven for a few minutes ( exact temperature not too important , spread them out thinly on a baking sheet and take them out before they burn ) . I 'd then go on to make a normal cornflake cake recipe of your liking straight away , to avoid having the same problem again .
I have n't been able to find any empirical data , but here are my theories : Most cookies contain butter which has similar proteins as milk and the combination of the two resonates on that level . Soy milk does not share those protein profiles , so there is no sensory resonance . Cookies are generally quite sweet and rich . Milk helps blunt that sweetness by washing away some of the sugar and coating the tongue . Many soy milks have sweeter taste than dairy milk which would make the overall sweetness of the combination excessive . ( For comparison 's sake does your roommate use soy milk on sweetened cereals or more neutral-tasting cereals ? I would suspect the latter . ) In addition to the natural " grassy " flavors that soy milks can have , they may also have other flavorants like vanilla that make them less neutral flavored than dairy milk which competes with the flavor of the cookies .
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In theory you could thaw and refreeze as many times as you like , though the changes in temperature would definitely alter the quality of the meat 's taste and texture . What matters most is how long the meat has been in the so-called " danger zone " speaking from a temperature perspective . The " danger zone " is defined as being between 41 to 135 ° F ( 5 to 57 ° C ) . Here is an excerpt from <URL> : Foods left in the danger zone for a period longer than four hours are considered adulterated . Additionally , one should be fully aware that the four-hour period is cumulative , meaning that the meter starts running again every time the food enters the danger zone . Therefore , once the four-hour period has been exceeded , heating , cooling , or any other cooking method can not recover foods .
end question
start question
Will storing a mix of vermouths alter their taste ?
It would certainly be safe . Vermouth is a fortified wine , meaning that it is wine with added alcohol . The added alcohol gives the vermouth a much longer shelf life , even at room temperature after the bottle is opened . You can store open vermouth for at least several months without any discernible loss of quality . It will continue to be safe indefinitely as long as the bottle is kept closed , keeping the alcohol from evaporating . That said , I can see no reason why two vermouths could n't be mixed in advance . As a matter of fact , you could add the bourbon too . Perhaps some kind of alcohol super-taster could tell the difference , but I sincerely doubt that any mere mortal would be able to tell the difference between a just-mixed Manhattan and one that was mixed 3 months ago ( assuming , of course , an airtight container ) .
To taste is one of those awesome cooking terms that trips people up all the time . To taste does not mean to what tastes good to you , although you can use that as a determination and your dish should still come out fine for most people . To taste means that you add salt ( or whatever ) while tasting the dish and you slowly add until the seasoning tastes perfect . To properly do this you are going to have to train your palate , but luckily it not that hard to do . As a matter of fact , we have a pretty good way to learn it right <URL> The end result you are trying to achieve is the point where food tastes the most like it 's self with out adding to much , this the small increments . The important part to remember is that " to taste " is where your food lives . It 's the thing that is unique to you and a part of what makes every dish you make an expression .
Main reason that comes to mind is , for the same reason compound butter 's flavour improves over a couple of days : infusion . Fat can be infused with flavour , and holds flavour incredibly well , but it needs a little time ( viscosity of fat vs water ) . Otherwise the fat in Serrano Ham would taste just like it would on day one . By holding your mix/custard overnight you are allowing the coffee or vanilla flavours get infused into the mix . You can somewhat accelerate this by letting the vanilla sit in hot ice-cream mix for 1hr as suggested by many pastry chefs ( e.g. Simple French Desserts , Jill O'Conner ) . I suspect the acceleration is due to the lower viscosity of fat at higher temperatures . The taste does follow the physics here were the higher the viscosity the longer infusion ( read equilibrium ) takes . Serrano ham : two years . Hot deep fryer oil : seconds . By the way , when it comes to ice-cream , they also recommend aging your mix/custard for up to 48 hours . It may be worth the experiment to sous-vide your ice-cream batter/mix at say 55C for a couple of hours and compare taste with the over-night version . Although mouthfeel may play a role in this case , the ' flavour improves over time ' effect is present even when crystallization is not happening .
In addition to the tips from Joe 's great grandmother , you might want to try and rinse the pasta thoroughly with some lukewarm water after cooking it al dente . That way you rinse off the remaining starch and you prevent the pasta from cooking any further . Rinsing results in firmer pasta that is silky smooth and does n't clump together or get mashed up . Your scoop or tongs will slither right through without damaging the pasta . :)
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
Buying coriander whole rather than ground is probably your best bet . As is the case with allspice and coffee , they 're bound to eventually lose flavor , likely to light/heat/moisture , fresh grinding will bring back some of the spark . If you 're using fresh from the garden coriander you 're not out of options . There 's <URL> , and also <URL> if you 're willing to go down that route . If the fridge/freezer simply is n't an option , and having a bouquet of coriander is n't in the cards , then I would just hang them upside down in your basement/closet and then keep them in airtight containers away from direct light and heat .
Storing bread in the freezer you can store for several days and keep it soft . To eat , remove from the freezer and put in the oven .
From experience I 'd say those 6 months do n't stack . You could have 6 months in the jar , or 6 months in the freezer - very soon after defrosting the flavour would die out . If you have to freeze I would recommend using it straight from the freezer , if you can avoid it clumping . The overall potency is degrading from the moment it 's picked ! But realistically from the moment of grinding , as the oils in the ingredient are slowly seeping and evaporating out of the grain . Why not make smaller batches more regularly ? That 's what I do for garam masala , mixing a new batch every 3 months or so . I would always recommend oven drying spices / peppers very low for a long time - say 2 - 3 hours at 100C ( 212F ) . Wet ingredients could be dried in the same way , else added at the time you are going to cook with them .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
It has long been known that receptacles influence the taste and appreciation of beverages . <URL> , for example , are optimal for giving the nose an opportunity to experience the wine . They enclose a volume that allows you to swish the wine in the glass ( without spilling it ) to impart the aroma to air in the glass . The usually tapered opening keeps the aroma from dissipating before your nose can sense the wine . Champagne flutes , keep the effervescent champagne or prosecco bubbly and cold long enough to enjoy the drink without it going flat . Different <URL> are optimal for showcasing the " head " and are tall for the same reason as champagne flutes ( to keep the effervescence going as long as possible ) . I think it is absolutely the case that the same kinds of considerations apply to cola and other effervescent soft drinks . My opinion is that the best glass for such beverages is a <URL> . It it tall and narrow and keeps the bubbles going for a longer time than a wide glass , it is like a champagne flute but holds a larger volume which is needed for soft drinks .
Generally , no they should be fine . You 'd have more of an issue with frozen than fresh . It would take fresh strawberries a long time to release enough moisture to cause any significant amount of sogginess . The issue you 're more likely to run into depending on the size of your strawberries , the density of your Bavarian cream , levelness of your cake , and the weight of your top layer is that they can act like rollers and friction between the two layers will be low . If the cake is tilted wrong , the top layer will just slide right off . I 've definitely had it happen - ruined a cake for a charity event :( . Make sure the strawberries are cut into bits - not halves or slices and preferably fold them into the cream to prevent this from happening . All the flavors will still be there , but your cake will be safer .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
Yes , they are certainly connected . But as with many connections in the real world , it is not a perfect +1 correlation . So , just because tomatoes and potatoes are related and they do n't taste similar , it does n't mean that no two related plants taste similar , or that similar taste in related plants is due to random chance . First , many people talk about " taste " as if it were one thing . In fact , there are lots of things which contribute to taste . It can be roughly divided into a combination of four factors : the combination of the basic five tastes ( sweet , sour , salty , bitter and umami ) , the texture , the aroma of the food , and the taster 's internal psychological factors ( 1 ) . Each food has the first three of them , as well as cues which trigger the fourth . I wo n't discuss the psychological factor here , as I do n't have enough data on it , and also because it is not intrinsic to the food itself , but to the combination of food and taster . So let 's look at the other three . Basic taste . This can be a hit and miss in related foods . There are practically no plants which are consistently salty . Umami is found in some ( including the tomato you mentioned ) , but does n't run in families . Fungi will generally have an umami taste , but do n't forget that we are talking about a whole kingdom here , not just a few related plants . Sweet is also unlikely to depend on the plant family , it is more about the part of the plant . The most abundant source of sweetness in plants is fructose . From the point of view of the plant , it is a great way to store energy either for feeding a hungry seed or to seduce animals into eating its fruits ( 2 ) and spread the seeds . Besides , it is relatively easy to create if you are a plant . So plants from many families use it . But it tends to be produced in the fruits only , and only after they have received lots of sunlight . I suspect that there may be a chemical reason beside the evolutionary explanation ( it is best for the plant when its seeds are only spread after they have matured ) . So , you can find sweetness in many plants with little relation . Sourness is due to the presence of acids , and also the absence of sugars ( sugar masks our perception of acids as sour ) . The amount of acids is more plant-family-dependent than the amount of fructose . Some plants , for example the melons/cucumbers/pumpkins family , have very little acid in general , while others are very high in it , like citrus . Beside the amount , the type and distribution of acid is also different . LeBeau mentions rhubarb and sorrel : these are of the same family , and there are only a few edible plants which contain the same acid ( oxalic acid ) . Citruses are high in citric acid , apples in malic acid , and grapes in tartaric acid . Also note that while most plants will concentrate the acid in the fruit , in other plants such as the rhubarb it will be everywhere . We humans can taste the difference between these acids when we are paying attention . So , while you are likely to find a strong relation between the plant part ( fruit/not fruit ) and sourness level , you will also find a variation of level within different fruits differing within the family . And across all plants , you will find differences in the taste profile of this sourness . Bitterness . This is the most family-dependent part of the five basic tastes . Alkaloids , a very common class of chemicals produced by plants , taste bitter . But each plant family tends to produce its own alkaloid ( or other bitter substance ) , which have a slightly different type of bitterness . So , if one edible plant is bitter , then other plants of the same family have a high likelihood of being bitter too , and in a similar way ( remember , this is different than the sweet situation - fructose equals fructose in all plants ) . Texture . This is not related to family very much . The texture varies tremendously within a plant , depending on which part you take from the plant . Cherry tree wood has a texture more similar to pear tree wood than to a cherry fruit or a cherry leaf . Texture is caused by the macro-mechanical properties of the most abundant stuff in plants , such as the starch in grains , the fructose-in-water sticky fruit juice , or the sturdy hemicellulose in stems and leaves . These are roughly similar between plants - two starches may be slightly different , but when packed in a kernel , they feel similar to the tooth . And frequently , the same family can produce different types of starches ( you can have mealy or non-mealy potatoes , mealy or non-mealy rice , etc. ) . So , expect to find similar texture in plant foods not between related families , but within related parts of the plant . And besides , expect the texture to change drastically in response to cooking . Flavor . This is the area where relations are most apparent . Small differences in a molecule mean huge differences to the way it is perceived ( I think that there were examples where it was not really the substance , but its racemic structure which mattered for how its fl
I hate to be the bearer of bad news , but I do n't think there is anything you can do to remove that flavor . It sounds like what is often described as " scorched " flavor . In restaurants , that is well known as the one flavor you ca n't mask , you just have to dump the whole batch and move on . You can feel free to take a shot at masking it with acid ( lemon , vinegar , ... ) , salt , sugar , and spices , but I do n't think it is going to work .
<URL> is the bark of a tree . It is either sold as rolled strips of bark ( = cinnamon sticks ) or ground . It will not dissolve , neither in water nor in alcohol . What you want to do is basically the same as was done commercially with the vanilla extract you are already using : Extract the taste , then discard the bark itself . Alcohol is a good choice for extracting volatile aromatics . You could try and soak a few cinnamon sticks or a few tablespoons of ground cinnamon in a " neutral " alcohol like vodka or - if you are using it exclusively for your signature drink - use the brandy . This process might take from a few days to a few weeks , so nothing you can do " on the spur of the moment " . Another good carrier for the cinnamon taste would be water . You can simmer a few cinnamon sticks in water , then sieve . This is the same method that is used for mulled wine or mulled cider . To extend the shelf life of the " cinnamon water " , you might considering turning it into simple syrup by boiling it with an equal amount of sugar . Whether you use water or alcohol is a question of personal taste and planned other uses . The shelf life of an alcohol based extract might be longer , but with a sufficiently high sugar content , clean handling and refrigeration the syrup will last long , too . Time is a factor : The syrup can be ready and cooled in an hour or so , whereas the alcohol will take significantly more time . Both methods work for vanilla , too - you could even make a " instant mix " for your drink . Be warned , though : Filtering ground cinnamon from a liquid can be quite a hassle . It tends to clog coffe filters , but is too fine to be held back by a sieve . If you decide to use ground cinnamon because that 's what you have at hand , consider letting it settle at the bottom of your container and carefully decanting the liquid from top . A coffe filter or a cloth-lined sieve can catch stray particles . You should get much better results by using whole or coarsely crushed cinnamon sticks . There has been an ongoing discussion on what kind of cinnamon to use , so a short wrap-up here : Cinnamon is derived from a group of plants , which vary in their properties and compounds . Especially <URL> , a substance also found in tonka bean , woodruff and other plants , has been widely discussed for its toxicity and is regulated in the EU . <URL> has the highest content whereas <URL> contains only traces . From a culinary point , the cheaper cassia , which contains more bark and is usually sold ground or in pieces , is often considered inferior in taste to the true cinnamon , which often comes in sticks . I will not venture a statement here , neither on health nor culinary claims . I am sure every reader of this post is capable of making an informed decision .
There 's too many factors to have a set percentage of oil that will stay , but lets cover a few common things that determine the oil in your final product . Heat of the oil : Your oil needs to be plenty hot enough to actually fry in . For fries , you 'll typically want to shoot for between 350-375 F . If you do n't have a thermometer , then get one ! If you really do n't want to get one , a white bread cube will fry brown in about 60 seconds at the right temp - but a thermometer is best . If the oil is n't hot enough to fry in , it will start to absorb the oil . So before you ever fry anything , get that oil up to temp ( and make sure its that way between batches ! ) . Coating of the fry ( or other fried food ) : A batter coating is just going to hold more oil than a plain french fry . If you 're trying to be health conscious about french fries ( but then again , why are you eating french fries !?! ) , avoid batter coating them and go with a ' plain ' fry . Post frying treatment : Shake , shake , shake ! Give the basket a good vigorous shake . Do n't have a basket ? Use a strainer or at least a cooling rack with a mesh-type grate . You 're trying to physically shake as much oil off the fry as you can . Additionally , I like to lay them on paper towels and then fold the paper towels on top . See all that oil ? Simple math , if its on the paper towel , its not in the fry anymore . Crowding the pan : If you crowd the pan you fry in , you 'll lower the temperature of the oil and give the oil not enough circulation . This means longer to fry and more time not at the right temperature . This means more oil in the final product . Its better to do some smaller batches than to try to cram it all in one batch . The right oil : The main thing here is that you need an oil that can fry hot enough without smoking . This goes back to the right temperature . ( In case it had n't sunk in yet , temperature is important ! ) If you ca n't get it hot enough , then you 're going to absorb a lot of oil . Olive oil is a bad choice . I usually use peanut or canola oil .
Yes . Water boils at about 212F ( 100C ) and meat is cooked from 140F to 160F . If you left the meat in there for a very long time it would eventually approach 212F and start to get tough . The time that they give you is going to be the time it takes to ensure that the meat is safe to eat . Generally I like it to be closer to the rare side as it is more tender that way .
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
Yes . Make it again and do n't add horseradish . I 'm totally serious - no traditional hummus recipe in the known universe has horseradish in it . There is nothing you are going to be able to do to your existing batch to remove that flavor , other than diluting it , but I do n't think you 'd be able to dilute it enough to be worth the effort .
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
end question
start question
What is the standard ratio of sugar to cream in Crème Chantilly ?
You can be quite free with your sugar amount , depending on what you want to achieve . I would say that as a rule of thumb , you do n't want to create too great a contrast between your sauce and your other components . So , if you are using it for dipping fruit , you can use less sugar than usual , else the fruit will be perceived as too sour . For a rich torte , you can go up with the sugar . As for the normal range , it can start at zero , but this is very unusual for sweet applications . The upper bound is given by foaming : you ca n't whip cream well if it has less than 30 % fat . ( This number is for pure raw cream , and varies even there , depending on factors like cow breed . It can be slightly higher or lower depending on cream treatment - pasteurization etc. - and the amount of stabilizers usually added to whipping cream ) . So , if you start with a cream which has 35 % fat , you should n't add more than 16.7 g sugar per 100 g cream ( 40 g sugar per 250 ml ) . Else your texture will suffer . You also ask for a standard amount . This will vary regionally . The Professional Chef recommends 57 g of sugar per 454 g ( a pound ) of cream , which translates to 12.5 g per 100 g , or 30 g per 250 ml . This is an American book , and I have found that using 2/3 to 1/2 of the recommended amount in most American recipes results in good-tasting sweets , whereas the original amount often produces oversweetened dishes . This would be my guideline for a standard amount too . You can adjust it to your own taste . On a side note , The Professional Chef insists that it whips best if the sugar is sprinkled in after you have achieved soft peaks . I have n't done it this way , but it is worth a try .
Marrow bones add a marrow-y flavor . That flavor is very thick and rich , but can taste of innards . Have you ever eaten marrow ? ( It 's delicious , as far as I 'm concerned . You can <URL> . ) I would say that it sounds like you 've got a lot of marrow bones in your stock . That could cause problems , since even a few marrow bones will make the stock fairly greasy . Marrow is almost all fat . The ox tails have lots of bones in them . They 'll give you the deep flavor and gelatin of bones . ( Neck bones give you the same thing , as you can see from the picture below . ) The only thing marbled meat would have added is extra fat , which is n't necessary for stock -- you 'll end up skimming the fat off anyway . You want both the bones and the meat for stock , as you would for chicken stock . It 's true that marrow bones are fairly clean , but they 're used for a different flavor . Another option for adding lots of flavor is to add what are known as <URL> ribs . This is short ribs that are cut across the bone . They 're also used in Korean Short Ribs . They give you some of that marbled meaty flavor , along with the bones from the ribs .
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
There is no single ideal . More sugar and butter will mean a more crunchy crumble top ( and one that browns or burns more quickly ) , more flour will make it more sandy - they each have their place . The juicier the fruit , the sandier I like the topping to absorb some of the juice . The longer the fruit needs to cook , the more resilient to cooking the topping needs to be . And of course for a tart fruit like rhubarb , you might like more sugar in the topping to balance it - or you might just add sugar to the fruit and leave the topping alone . My goto mix is 1 cup flour , 1 cup sugar , 1/2 cup butter . But play with it a bit and vary it according to the fruit you are using - and I do n't just mean " rhubarb " or " apples " but taste a bit of today 's fruit to see how sweet it is , how soft it is , etc. .
It is to cool it down without dilluting it - ice cubes would melt . And yes , you could simply cool the entire bottle , but it would n't look that fancy . Note that some purists would wrinkle their noses and insist that whisky1 is best enjoyed at room temperature and perhaps with a small dash of spring water . 1 And I 'm soooo not going into a whisky vs. whiskey debate here .
In the UK , single cream is a milk product with at least 18 % butterfat . Double cream has 48 % butterfat . Neither are common in the US . If you can find clotted cream , which is 55 % fat , then there is a chance of making double cream at home by diluting it . As some clotted creams have a cooked taste , there may be other solutions .
Take a look at this link from <URL> , it 's not a standard , per se , but it provides useful information . Table from article :
I ended up measuring the scoop spoon the next time I was in the US , and it turned out to be 1 Tablespoon .
For 1 cup self-raising flour , add 1 1/2 tsp baking powder + 1/4 tsp salt to 1 cup all purpose flour . ( http://www.joyofbaking.com/IngredientSubstitution.html ) Edit : Calculation added by Sebbidychef : According to <URL> 1 cup of un-sifted all-purpose flour is equal to 120g . Therefore 1000 divided by 120 is 8.3 recurring ( 1000/120 = 8.3 ) . 8.3 multiplied by 1.5 ( 1 1/2 teaspoons ) is 12.45 , so let 's round it to 12.5 ( 12 1/2 teaspoons or 4.167 tablespoons , rounded to 4 tablespoons ) , ( 8.3 * 1.5 = 12.45 ) . In metric this is 45g of baking powder . 8.3 multiplied by 0.25 is 2.075 , so let 's round it to 2 ( 2 teaspoons ) , ( 8.3 * 0.25 = 2.075 ) . In metric this is 10g if salt . So for 1kg of flour you will need 45g baking powder ( 4 tablespoons ) of baking powder and 10g ( 2 teaspoons ) of salt .
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
The best way to get rid of the ants ? Toss the ants and the butter in the trash or a trash bag that you can quickly seal to prevent the ants from spreading around your house . Then , wash the container and check it for any holes or openings where the ants could have gotten in through ( can do a water test - fill it with water and see if any water escapes ) . Then , go out and buy fresh butter .
Creaming puts the air bubbles into the mixture . The baking powder only helps enlarge the bubbles , not make them . In cookies the creaming plays another essential role , which is to help dissolve the sugar . To <URL> ( at 65 & deg ; F , harder in the summer ) . It has <URL> that cookie dough is different from cake batters . Sugar is part of the structure of the cookie and not just a sweetener , tenderizer , and browning agent . It forms the base upon which the fats and the starch granules of the flour are embedded . The sugar needs to dissolve for the matrix to form . If you beat the whole thing , it will be harder to get bubbles in and you may end up overworking the dough . The cookies will end up flat and tough .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
In NZ normal pure cream is close enough to " double cream " in performance , it 's around 35 % to 40 % fat . By general global definition it should be called " heavy cream " NZ cream is pure skimmed cream from fresh milk , and does not need thickening or other processing to produce excellent results as a whipped product , or for a thick cream additive in sauces or fillings Cream can get a little seasonal just after calving time ( Aug ) , but in general it 's just perfect The export variety is often labelled " Culinary Cream " and is 38 % fat or higher . This is what many people around the world would consider NZ cream ( other than NZ butter or AMF ) If you want closer to 50 % fat cream , ask your local farmers for some raw milk and skim out the lumps of fat from that . Let the milk settle overnight and skim the cream from that . Then gently heat the fat lumps to melt and carefully mix into the skimmed cream . Not for the faint of heart ! NZ " Thickened cream " or " Mascarpone cream " is standard pure cream with a thickener like E1442 added , you can <URL>
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
The rind of Brie is <URL> it 's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste . You can eat it , or not , up to you : you are supposed to . If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it wo n't do you any harm .
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
Graphics and quoted text from : <URL> Grains , by definition , have 3 major parts : the germ , the endosperm , and the bran . Whole grains are those that have all of the parts of the natural seed , or kernel ( not including an exterior husk that is generally inedible ) . To be called " Whole Grain " the product must still have all of the bran , endosperm and germ that it had when it was in the field , although it can milled , ground , cracked , natural , whatever ... as long as it still has all of its parts . If a food label states that the package contains whole grain , the " whole grain " part of the food inside the package is required to have the same proportions of bran , germ , and endosperm as the harvested kernel does before it is processed . Refining normally removes the bran and the germ , leaving only the endosperm . Without the bran and germ , about 25 % of a grain 's protein is lost , along with at least seventeen key nutrients . Processors add back some vitamins and minerals to enrich refined grains , so refined products still contribute valuable nutrients . This graphic shows what 's lost when wheat is refined , and what 's added back when it 's " enriched " : Durum is just a variety of wheat . Unless it specifically says " whole wheat " or " whole grain " , you can assume that it is refined .
There is no official standard . The USDA uses 125g/cup , but labels on packages claim different weights for one cup : Gold Medal brand : 130g King Arthur brand : 113g <URL> : 137g superpacked : 165g I always convert my recipes to weights using 140g/cup .
end question
start question
Frozen and Unfrozen Chicken : what 's the difference ?
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
This question has become blown out of proportion . I was just curious - then I started getting answers that quickbreads and cake are the same thing - which they " obviously " are n't . So I started doing my own research . <URL> says that the term quickbread was probably invented in the US after the discovery of chemical leavening . The Wikipedia references and some dictionaries corroborate this definition . Basically anything leavened with soda is quickbread . This does n't work . There are a great many things leavened with soda that ca n't be called quickbread . A good example is plain old <URL> . Obviously this is a semantic issue but one that needed solving . Two American cookbooks that I consider canonical recipe resources , The Joy of Cooking , and the Better Homes and Gardens cookbook , both have a separate quickbread section . In it are a variety of fruit breads as well as some biscuits and scones . On Food and Cooking muddied the water a bit by differentiating between quick breads such as biscuits and batter breads such as banana bread . These were grouped together , however , and contrasted against cakes . This book says that cakes are higher in fat and sugar and have a more delicate texture . Ratio , as linked <URL> , confused the terms a bit more also including a term " quick cake " but it differentiated between the different products with distinct ratios for the flour , fat , and sugar . With several competing definitions I decided to take an unscientific poll . I called 6 friends in Washington , Utah , Georgia , and Texas . I tried to find a variety of American cultures . Obviously it is biased by the fact that I know all of them . When asked " What is quickbread to you ? " without exception all of them replied " banana bread " When I followed up with : " What is the difference between that and cake " I received the following answers : " It is eaten at breakfast " " It has less sugar " " It is loaf shaped " " It is more dense " " It has a more open texture " My conclusion is that the historical definition of " anything with soda " is no longer useful . In cookbooks it seems to now be applied to chemically risen baked goods that : have as a rule of thumb a particular ratio of flour , fat , and sugar have less sugar than cake refers in particular to fruit breads , biscuits , and scones generally has an irregular vs uniform texture The popular definition ( among my extremely limited , unrandom sampling ) adds : tends to be loaf shaped And now I can sleep easily again .
Pectin is a polysacharide found in the cell walls of plants . There are two main divisions of pectin used in cooking : high methoxyl ( HM ) and low methoxyl ( LM ) . The high methoxyl is used in most jam and jelly recipes . It requires sugar and acid to gel . When the pectin is dissolved out of the cell walls it is very dilute and picks up a negative charge that prevents the molecules from binding to each other and gelling . Adding sugar isolates the pectin molecules from some of the water while dding the acid removes their charge . Pectin HM is thermally reversible which means it can be set , melted , and set again . Instead of using sugar and acid to encourage gelling , low methoxyl pectin gels in the presence of calcium . It is used in glazes and reduced sugar jams . It is not thermally reversible . Pectin NH is a type of LM pectin that has been modified to be thermally reversible . The more calcium in a gel the less able that gel will be to melt . Pectin NH gels with calcium but unlike other LM pectins it requires less calcium . This would mean that it could still be melted and reshaped . The recipes that I have seen that use pectin NH both have less sugar and require remolding . From what I have seen pectin NH tends to be more expensive . It is typically used in low-sugar pastry fillings and glazes . <URL> <URL> <URL>
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
The reasons people still roast whole birds are : Roasting a whole chicken is easier than butterflying it . While it 's not tough to butterfly a chicken many people do n't know how , or do n't want the cleanup It 's less prep time to roast a whole chicken . If you are busy you can have it from the fridge to the oven in less than a minute , while butterflying or jointing it is n't super-quick Aesthetics : some people like the look of a whole chicken on the table
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
It 's hard to know exactly what you 're referring to without any context of the event , location , or what you remember it tasting like , so I 'll give you my best educated guesses . If your pink tea sweet and fruity or floral , it was an herbal tea - <URL> , and not true tea . ( " Tea " actually refers to the plant whose leaves are used the beverage . Anything that is not made from the tea tree is usually called a tisane . ) Some varieties of tisanes that produce a pink liquid include hibiscus , rose petals , rose hips , strawberry . If the above is not the case , I suspect you 're referring to Kashmiri pink tea , sometimes called noon chai . Disclaimer : I ca n't find any authoritative sources about Kashmiri online ; my knowledge of the subject is anecdotal from my own travels in India as well as stories from people I know who have lived or traveled in South Asia . My understanding is that , like masala chai throughout South Asia , pink tea has some general guidelines but everyone customizes it according to taste or local custom . The basic distinguishing factors of Kashmiri pink tea compared to a " regular " black , green , oolong , or white tea are twofold : color and taste . As you mentioned , this tea is pink in color , which other beverages made from the tea tree are not . The pink color comes from the addition of baking soda . As for taste , pink tea tends to elicit mixed opinions about taste because it is salty ; most people around the world typically drink tea unadulterated , or sweetened , but rarely with the addition of salt . Pink tea shares many ingredients with <URL> , often including some or all of the following : Ginger Cardamom Cinnamon Peppercorns Milk or cream Sugar ( or other sweetener ) Unlike masala chai , which is normally prepared with black tea , Kashmiri pink tea uses green or oolong tea leaves . Ingredients included in Kashmiri chai that are not included in most other chai recipes : baking soda ( just a pinch ) ground pistachios and/or almonds salt white poppy seeds The final major difference is in the method of preparation . Masala chai can be made in a matter of minutes by boiling the water , then adding tea , milk , spices and boiling it all together for a few minutes before straining and serving . Kashmiri chai , on the other hand , takes 1-2 hours to prepare ( I believe the long boiling time is required for the baking soda to accomplish its task of turning the tea pink ) . I do n't know the exact process and could n't find any sources that seemed reliable .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
The problem is , the mass produced chicken most of us are used to does n't taste like chicken . The expression ' tastes like chicken ' is therefore used for most anything that 's not particularly assertive . There was an episode of Food Detectives , <URL> where they served a few different meats to professional chefs ( Alex Guarnaschelli and Aarón Sanchez ) , who had problems identifying all of the meats they were being served ... I ca n't remember exactly what all of the results were , and I ca n't find a transcript ; I remember Alex being distraught when she realized she was eating guinea pig ) . And the cooking show <URL> had a regular segment of ' name that meat ' , where he 'd have hot dogs , or jerky , and try to have people guess what they were . ... Part of the issue with substitution is going to be something that has similar cooking characteristics , but that you do n't have a reaction to . ( I 'm actually surprised that you 're allergic to chicken , but then listed other poultry ) Turkey 's likely the closest of the stuff you listed , particularly if it 's the mass produced stuff , it 's going to have a similar lack of flavor that most chickens sold in the US has ; duck tends to be richer . I have n't had any game birds recently , so ca n't comment on the pheasant . Alligator I 've only had a few times , and the only time in the last decade it was deep fried , so the meat did n't come through . ... For substitutions , it 'd depend on how you 're cooking it , and what part of the bird . For instance , in place of chicken wings , I might consider frog legs . ( although , it 's probably been 25 years since I 've had 'em , but I seem to recall them being chicken-like ... I just ca n't remember if they were like white or dark meat chicken ) ... but they 'd be closer in mass than turkey wings . For chicken breasts , I 'd go with turkey breast cutlets , so they 're closer in size . For ground chicken meat , ground turkey will work , just check to see if a recipe calls for a leaner or fattier mix , and get the appropriate turkey . Chicken thighs and legs are a little more strongly flavored ... rabbit might actually work , or duck or pigeon if you have a source .
Enchiladas are normally shredded meat and/or cheese rolled in corn tortillas , covered in red ( or green ) enchilada sauce and cheese , and then baked . Fajitas are normally strips of meat either grilled or sauteed ( often with onions and peppers ) . They can be used in tacos , burritos , or served on their own or with tortillas on the side ( corn or flour depending on preference ) . Tacos can be either hard or soft shelled and are usually meat ( shredded , ground , grilled etc ) with some sort of cold veggies ( like lettuce , raw onions , pico de gallo , etc ) and perhaps cheese etc. .
end question
start question
How long will a fresh herb paste last ?
Well of all your listed ingredients the only two that can really ' spoil ' are the fresh basil and fresh mint . Honey never goes bad , and nearly any dried spice can last for a long time with just a degradation in flavor . I 'd say that if you washed and dried ( sanitarily ) your basil and mint before addition to this mix that you could get at least 1-2 weeks out of it unrefrigerated , and at least 1-2 months out of it refrigerated . Please note that this is just a ballpark estimate and you may have to do some trial and error to determine a more specific window . That said , I would n't be surprised if you could get a significantly longer shelf life out of it than my estimates . Update - I think the presence of salt does enough to " extend " the life of it . Another Update - Some Googling has informed that honey is in-fact a preservative . Apparently honey is a rather hostile environment for bacteria due to the production/presence of hydrogen peroxide . I still think my estimates are accurate , albeit a little conservative now . The best thing you can do is trial and error . Sources : <URL> <URL>
No , it 'll be fine . I ca n't elaborate really . It just will be fine it 's how people have done it forever . I do it on a daily basis . As long as everything is cold when you assemble and the pastry is raw , you 'll have no issue at all .
The texture of frozen herbs is going to be totally different after thawing . In my opinion frozen herbs are fine for using in cooking , but they do n't work well as a garnish or as an addition to a dish at the end of cooking . The taste is definitely better than dried , though .
First off , pretty much everything stored in a properly cold freezer ( 0 ° F / -18 ° C ) will be safe to eat forever . The flavor will eventually go , e.g. , by getting <URL> and also by enzymatic degradation ( if not blanched ) . How long this will take depends on exactly how you 've stored them . In general , airtight packaging with no air inside seems to be best . For example , vacuum-sealed thick bags work well . Cheap , thin plastic " storage " bags do n't work well . You can get around <URL> . Colorodo State believes you can get <URL> . edit : It also occurs to me that it matters what freezer you 're using . The one on my fridge , for example , has fairly large temperature swings ( yet mostly stays below 0 ° F ) and automatic defrost , it freezer burns things much quicker than my chest freezer ( which has a temperature variance of maybe 2 ° F , staying in the -3 ° to -1 ° F range )
I would shred one or both leaves ( depending on size ) and garnish the soup right before eating it .
<URL> is as good advice as any I 'd give . In my experience , it gets some slimy mold stuff on it . If it feels slimy , its probably not good to eat , although the mold might taste delicious , you never know ...
Sometimes the outer leaves are a bit leathery ( especially if the quality is n't too god ) . When that 's the case I remove them first . Next , I remove the green stalks -- but Jefromi is right , the tiny leaves are delicious . The kernel in the middle near the base of the fennel bulb is very hard . I usually cut it out by halving the bulb along its length and making two incisions with a sharp knife on either side of the kernel . I chop the rest of the bulb so that it yields thin concentric slices .
The reason dry yeast is so popular is that it is easier to store , and is less persnickety about it than fresh yeast . Treat dry yeast right and it can last for a couple of years or more . Fresh yeast is highly perishable , and it should be frozen if you 're not going to use it within a couple of days . If you 're lucky , you can get significantly more time from fresh yeast by freezing it within just a day or two of getting it home . The thing is , yeast is a living thing and you just ca n't know what experiences it has had before arriving in your kitchen . As such , it 's impossible to predict just how much extra ( past the expiration date ) time you are going to get from freezing it . A month ? Probably . Two months ? I would n't count on it , but maybe . 6 months ? Highly unlikely , but stranger things have happened . If you do freeze fresh yeast , wrap it very well . Moisture and air are your enemies . Do put it in the refrigerator at least 12 hours prior to use , then let it spend the last hour on the counter . As a last step before putting together your dough , proof it . Proof the yeast by mixing it with the warm ( 100Fish ) water called for in the recipe and , if applicable , the sugar . If there is no sugar in the recipe , give it a 1/2 tsp of flour ( per loaf ) . Within 5-10 minutes it should be quite bubbly and growing . If it does n't look like it 's doing much , throw it away . You might as well throw away all of the yeast you have from that batch . Go to the store and get more yeast before proceeding with the recipe . Properly stored , yeast usually dies at least somewhat gradually . You may see a slight progressive decrease in the vigor of your yeast as it gets older . Personally , once I see that I 'll use it that time , but I 'll get more for next time . Anymore , fresh yeast is hardly seen except in professional bakeries . It 's easy to see why . If you 're going to make multiple loaves in a week , then maybe fresh yeast is worth it . Now that I have found 2 pound packages of Fleischmann 's instant dry yeast ( expiration almost 2 years out ) at Sam 's Club for $ 6 , I think my days of messing with fresh yeast are over . ( BTW 2lbs of dry yeast = about 130 loaves ) EDIT : Interestingly , Red Star disagrees and does n't recommend freezing fresh yeast . This goes against my experience and the cynic in me wonders of their recommendation has more to do with selling yeast than anything else .
Yes you will damage plastic . At the very least , you will scratch them . At worst , you will get plastic dust in your food . Do n't do it . If you do n't believe me , take empty plastic bowl ( one you do n't mind damaging ) and push pestle against it 's wall . You will see for yourself .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Your refrigerator should be set so that it maintains a temperature no higher than <URL> . This means that you should n't be opening the door frequently or leaving it open longer than necessary . If you are <URL> in that refrigerator , you want the temperature to be no more than <URL> according to some sources , but these sources conflict . Below 32 degrees F you are obviously duplicating the functionality of your freezer , but not as well .
When I buy hot chilies , I look for firm , uniformly bright ( or dark , depending on the type ) green specimens . Unless I 'm in a big hurry , I pick through the pile and choose them individually . I avoid any that are soft , discolored ( including the ends ) , missing caps ( the part that attaches to the stem -- they spoil faster after this is removed ) , wrinkly or otherwise look damaged or old . If your store does n't have any that look bright green , crisp and plump , try to find a new place to buy them , or just buy them in smaller quantities and get the least disreputable specimens and use them immediately . You want to buy chilies from a place that has a high turnover on them and most supermarket produce sections do n't really do that much business in hot peppers , so they tend to sit for a while . My favorite place to buy green chilies is at Indian markets ( the busier , the better for turnover ) , second favorite is other Asian food markets , then other specialty markets from places that like spicy food , then farmers ' markets , then a long way down the list , regular grocery stores . When I get them home , I clean them off by hand ( remove any stray leaves or any bad ones I accidentally missed , etc ) and put them in the fridge in a lightly closed baggie . If I bought a large amount ( or if I happen to be growing them and have a lot ripe at once ) , I will sometimes freeze them . I have a small bag of frozen habaneros at home right now . The texture is most definitely affected by freezing , but the flavor is n't ( unless you keep them so long that they get freezer-burned ) , so if you are planning to cook with them , freezing is perfectly fine . I usually do n't wash them before storing , just pick them over . I wash them just before using them , whether I get them from the garden , the store , the fridge or the freezer . If I have chilies I 'm not sure about , I do smell and taste them to see if they are ok . If they feel/smell/taste weird , I do n't put them in the dish . I 'd rather replace green chilies with red pepper powder instead of using something iffy .
Its going to depend on the type of packaging and also the freezer . Lightly wrapped in plastic wrap ( or worse , paper ) will freezer burn fairly quickly . Vacuum-sealed will last much longer . A self-defrost freezer with wide temperature swings will burn quicker . A manual defrost chest freezer much slower . Worst case is probably around a month or less ( not really sealed , freezer with wide temperature swings ) , best case ( vacuum sealed in stable temperature chest freezer ) over a year .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
Usually you can tell when Pineapples are ripen , which will be sweet , when Leaves are loose and can easily be picked from the top The shell has golden colour ( but not dark brown , these are getting rotten ) The aroma even from out of the shell is strong A typical pineapple that is bought green and unripen , takes one to two days to ripe well . Do n't put them in the fridge if you want to ripe them . Keep them out on the counter . As a street food vendor , we always keep them in the truck for one night prior to selling , that ensure the pineapples ripe enough and the juice comes out of it . Hope it helps .
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
My tub of tamarind paste says store in a cool dry place . It should last up to its use by date ( 2 years in my case ) , provided it does n't grow mould .
I 've done it before without problems . Even if they 're peanut butter &amp; jelly ( something that 's typically stored in the fridge ) , it has so much sugar in it that it 's inhospitable to microbes . If you want to play it extra safe , and the sandiwiches wo n't be easten shortly after you leave , you could place them in the freezer and then let them thaw in your bag . ... all that being said , if you 're in the US , the TSA considers peanut butter to be a gel , so wo n't let you fly with a container of it . I have no idea what their rules are in sandwich form . ( I 've never tried it , as I typically fly w / cold cut sandwiches , and just take them straight from the fridge before I go ) .
It lasts indefinitely . The date you are seeing should be viewed as a " best before " date . Over time the soda can become flat and the flavor will degrade , but it will still be drinkable as long as the can was not compromised . Based on looking at some Coke I recently purchased , it appears that the date is likely 1 year in the future from when it was canned . The cans in my fridge have a date of ; I bought these in late July . Plastic bottles . on the other hand , have a much shorter " best before " window . This is because the plastic bottle leaks the carbonation much quicker than an aluminum can does . I do n't have any bottles on hand , but if I recall correctly they typically have a date only 3 months out .
I use " one step " to sanitize bottles and caps , like you would do for beer , and bottle my infusions in that , and they 've lasted > 3 years . I 've done raspberry and cherry vodka . If the alcohol percentage is high enough , it will kill bacteria or mold , so it 's pretty safe for long term storage . Probably depends on the final alcohol percentage though , like if you add enough juice that the percentage goes less than 10 or so percent , you have to have more precautions in sanitizing everything . I usually sanitize anyway because it ca n't hurt , and I already have the equipment to do so from homebrewing .
end question
start question
Flavor notes or profile of truffles ?
Uncooked ? I was shocked at how unimpressive the flavor of raw shaved truffle was . It was kind of earthy , not particularly strong in flavor ; in this case the truffle was probably not fresh enough . When heated and allowed to release their full flavor and aroma into food though , they are phenomenal . There 's a rich , luscious taste and smell , with an almost petrol pungency to it . The latter is primarily from the 2,4-dithiapentane , which truffle oil replicates , although it has a harsher and less complex flavor . Truffle oil will give you this top note , but without any of the additional layered complexity . All this said , different people have different reactions , and freshness matters greatly for raw truffles . If you really want to try truffle , canned or jarred truffle can be had in small quantities for under $ 20 . The flavor is quite distinctive , unique , and pairs well with cream , milk , cheese , and butter .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
Cumin is most often used ground , yes . You can , if you prefer -- and as in common in Indian and other cuisines -- toast it first until it is fragrant ( a minute or two in a dry skillet at medium heat ) . Then , grind it in a spice grinder or mortar and pestle .
I think this is a good question , as it is an issue that is frequently misunderstood . There is an aromatic flavoring called angostura bark , though it seems to be more used in traditional medicine than in any food or cooking situation . Angostura brand bitters , on the other hand , do not actually contain the bark at all -- they are instead a brand -- House of Angostura -- named for Angostura , Venezuela . As a flavor , this formula belongs to a class of bitters called " aromatic bitters " ( as opposed to , say , <URL> . Angostura is probably the best-selling brand of aromatic bitters , at least in the US , but they are by no means the only player . Fee Brothers and Peychaud 's are both popular alternatives . Though there is a fairly wide variety among aromatic bitters , and their formulas are secret , they do have some commonalities . For example , <URL> tends to be the strongest flavor . They are also , as the name implies , very aromatic , so that a " dash " or two is plenty to flavor a drink .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
No , there is no reason they should . Bacteria feed on carbohydrates , not on fats . ( This is why oil does n't spoil outside of the fridge - it is pure fat ) . So it is the amount of milk sugar which is important for the bacteria , and it is the same regardless of the fat content . Also , the spoiled milk is not more or less sour at the end . The other important factors are initial bacteria count and storage temperature . You ca n't do anything about the bacteria count , and ca n't know what it is . The storage temperature is , of course , your fridge temperature , which should be in the small range of 0-4 ° C . The other factor is the type of pasteurization . Traditional pasteurization makes a milk with a shelf life of 7 days , ESL gives it a shelf life of 21 days , and UHT milk can last for months , uncooled . Once opened , each of these types spoils within 3-4 days . And then , normally pasteurized milk goes really sour , partly even separating into curdles and whey . ESL and UHT milks get slightly more bitter , but not much , and they stay liquid and do n't change their odour or colour . Unless you pay lots of attention to the taste , you ca n't tell when ESL milk is spoiled . But this happens the same way no matter the fat content .
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
Antibiotics might be a reason , but it 's not the only cause . Other significant reasons are : exercise feed post-processing Most of the chicken available in grocery stores in the U.S. is factory raised ... they 're bulked up as quickly as possible without threat of predators . They 're fed corn , rather than their acting as pest control on farms , where they 'd be eating insects , moving about ( in their search for insects and other things to eat ) , and possibly running away from predators ( getting more exercise ) . That 's not to say that free roaming chickens would n't be fed corn or other processed feed ( or even antiobiotics ) , but that they 'd still have an opportunity for other food . The lack of predators means that chickens never have to fly , so they do n't need fast-twitch breast muscle , and they can grow to a size where they 'd never be able to fly , even for short flight to excape predators . Also not common in the U.S. are old chickens for stewing ... we have large chickens , but not necessarily the old ones , such as formerly egg-laying chickens that are no longer producing eggs . I have no idea what 's done with those ... they 're not in grocery stores , so I assume that they 're used in some other way ( dog food ? ) . One other possibility is the gender of the chicken . I do n't believe that males are raised for meat ( or anything else , really , other than in token amounts to sustain the species ) in the U.S. . I assume that a higher percentage of roosters would be produced in other countries , but I have no idea if they might be culled early ( if there are agression issues , etc , that would make them difficult to raise ) , like male cows are . And as for the post-processing comment ... much of the U.S. chicken is sold cut up , possibly with a brine solution injected , rather than being sold whole . This does n't seem like a big deal , other than the possibility of the brining , but it also means that chickens have been selectively bred for breast meat , rather than whole carcass weight . It also means that most of what we 're eating is white meat , rather than a mix of white &amp; dark meat .
Chipotle chiles , especially in adobo sauce ( e.g. , <URL> ) , give an excellent smoky flavor . You should be able to find these in your grocery store in the Mexican section .
As you are no doubt aware , there are 5 basic tastes - salty , sweet , sour , bitter and umami . Umami is the savoury flavour of mushrooms , cheese , cured meats , and so on . MSG is essentially ' pure ' umami . In other words , MSG is to umami what salt is to salty and sugar is to sweet . So if you add it to savoury dishes ( throw a parmesan rind in to vegetable soup while it 's simmering ) it enhances their savouriness .
This is totally fine . Meat gets poked and prodded all the time , whether to test it , to pick it up with tongs , or sticking a fork in it to cut . Meat just is not that fragile . Things like smashing with a tenderizer are much more violent and do affect the texture ( that 's kind of the point ) , so that 's not a great comparison . But this is a really minor thing .
Adding herbs directly to baked goods usually results in very strong flavours . Infusing the sugar with the herbs gives a more subtle overtone rather than a full-on explosion . In some cases , of course , you might want a strong herb flavour , but where you just want a hint , infusing the sugar is great . The classic example is using stripped vanilla pods to make vanilla sugar , which adds subtle vanilla tones to cakes and meringues .
To quote from your own <URL> : It 's best to plan ahead for slow , safe thawing in the refrigerator . After defrosting bacon by this method , it will be safe in the refrigerator for 7 days before cooking . If you decide not to use the bacon during this time , you can safely refreeze it without cooking it first . And , further up : It 's not important if a date expires after freezing bacon because all foods stay safe while frozen . Let 's look at what happens when you freeze food : Due to the low temperatures , the growth of all1 molds , bacteria and other " nasties " is stopped or at least slowed down to an extremely slow rate . So from the perspective of your food , time is suspended while frozen . ( <URL> left aside , we are talking food safety here . ) So the clock starts ticking again once you defrost your food and can be stopped when re-freezing . Taking into account that your bacon was supposed to be good until the end of the month and freezing does n't shorten that time , you should be fine at least until the original best-by-date . In theory you could calculate But that 's based on estimated bacterial growth , not taking possible quality issues into account - and we should n't always go to the limit , should we ? . 1 " all " as in " all typical pathogens " . Of course there are <URL> , but those are not relevant here .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
I have looked extensively and it seems that whether to boil or steam is determined by region and it is as subjective as the fillings used . See below from this <URL> . Other variations include using black instead of white glutinous rice , or precooking the rice and filling , or steaming instead of boiling , or even wrapping into a cylindrical shape or a flat paddle shape instead of a pyramidal one . You may be able to make a decision based on certain factors of your recipe . For example : Some recipes call for the rice to be soaked while others call for it to be cooked . If I was using soaked rice I would probably choose boiling as the zongzi may become too dry with steaming . Same idea for other ingredients . Another consideration would be how well the zongzi are wrapped . If they are wrapped very skillfully , either way could work . However , if not , the filling could come out much easier with boiling . So , in the end , I would say that there really is n't a really definitive answer . I think I would use the method called for in the recipe as there may be specific reasons the prescribed cooking method was chosen .
This is just fancy sounding talk for the myriad of techniques in good cooking that create good flavor in dishes . It does n't refer to any one specific thing . Some examples of techniques used to develop flavor include : Seasoning ( properly salting ) Browning meats and other foods properly to bring out their flavor Creating pan sauces or other uses from fond to enhance the flavor of a dish Using herbs and spices skilfully to compliment the food Balancing flavors with acidic ingredients like lemon juice or tomatoes Cooking properly to allow the flavor of individual ingredients to shine through Blooming or toasting spices to bring out their more aromatic qualities Using alcohol to enhance certain flavors not soluble in water or fat There are no doubt many , many more things that could be included in a list like this . After all , it sounds far more professional to say " the flavor in this dish is not well developed " than to say " this dish is bad . "
The reason that roasted garlic tastes so much milder than raw garlic is that it contains a sulfur compound called allicin , which roasting breaks down . Allicin is primarily what gives garlic its pungency . Technically , raw garlic mostly contains a compound called allin , which reacts with the allinase enzyme to produce the allicin , and this reaction is greatly accelerated when garlic is " distressed " , i.e. crushed or cut . Ginger contains no allicin , so you 're certainly not going to get an identical reaction . What ginger does contain are two types of oil called gingerols and shogaols , which are primarily what gives ginger its pungency . Cooking converts these into another compound called zingerone , which is far less pungent ( it 's described as " spicy-sweet " ) . It 's actually slightly more complicated ; the gingerols also convert into shogaols through cooking , and the shogaols are actually more pungent ( 160,000 SHU vs. 60,000 ) , but on the whole , the ginger does become milder . It will not become perfectly sweet as garlic does , just less pungent and more aromatic . In fact , cooked ( roasted ) ginger tastes much like dried ginger ; many of the same reactions happen during drying as during cooking . So yes , you can try roasting ginger if you want it to be milder , but do n't expect to be able to eat the whole root by itself if you do n't already love the taste of ginger . It does n't do exactly the same thing that garlic does , it 's just a little similar . It 's hard to find good references online , although you can find a lot of this in McGee . For more information you can try : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
If you want to make real Turkish delight , use cornstarch and only cornstarch . Nowhere on the Balkan have I seen a gelatine-thickened Turkish delight . No Turkish person will recognize a gelatine-thickened candy as . I would go as far as to insist that aromatzied sugar syrup + gelatine = gummi bear , while aromatized sugar syrup + cornstarch = Turkish delight , although some people will feel that this is pedantic . Beside authenticity , gelatine-containing recipes are prone to weeping , I have seen questions about that around here . Bottom line : I would always make it with cornstarch . This does n't mean that candy made with gelatine ca n't be tasty ; it is just that if you want what you get in a Turkish shop , you ca n't do it with gelatine .
Drain some of the liquid off either of those , whiz it in the food processor , add liquid back as needed to reach the " crushed " consistency .
end question
start question
Method of canning without pressure canner ?
Without a canner you are limited to canning high-acid foods . Botulism spores do n't die at 212F , the boiling point of water . A pressure canner boiling water at 15PSI raises the boiling point to 250F or so which will kill the spores . The bacterium can not grow in a high acid environment and so high-acid foods such as fruit and pickles do not need to be processed in a pressure canner . Look for recipes for such foods . As use2199 said they will involve boiling the jars for a while to kill things . An excellent resource is the <URL> that can often be found near the canning supplies in grocery stores . It always calls for Ball products of course but it has a ton of good canning recipes and instructions . Do n't experiment . Botulism is not a fun thing . Your lips get tingly and then you die shortly aftwards .
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
I use a pressure cooker quite often and its all about the cut of the meat . Much like slow cooking , using a often cheaper , fatty cut with lots of connective tissue - a chuck roast for example , yields much , much better results . Lean cuts of meat are make for fast searing and that 's about it . If you try to coax them to be fall apart fork tender , you 'll fail - those are the cheap , fatty cuts that go that way .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
Without a canner you are limited to canning high-acid foods . Botulism spores do n't die at 212F , the boiling point of water . A pressure canner boiling water at 15PSI raises the boiling point to 250F or so which will kill the spores . The bacterium can not grow in a high acid environment and so high-acid foods such as fruit and pickles do not need to be processed in a pressure canner . Look for recipes for such foods . As use2199 said they will involve boiling the jars for a while to kill things . An excellent resource is the <URL> that can often be found near the canning supplies in grocery stores . It always calls for Ball products of course but it has a ton of good canning recipes and instructions . Do n't experiment . Botulism is not a fun thing . Your lips get tingly and then you die shortly aftwards .
Sugar acts as a stabilizer in the heating process of eggs . It acts as a bit of " insurance " to keep the eggs from curdling under the moderate heat during the cooking process . It is a necessary component in making citrus curds .
If you 're drinking the espresso shot on its own , you could drink it straight from the shot glass - or , better yet , buy an <URL> , which should be about the same height as your shot glass . ( A <URL> will help keep it warm . ) If you 're pulling espresso shots to be used in other espresso-based drinks ( i.e. , if you 're adding some sort of milk or water to it ) , you could try an <URL> , which basically looks like the sort of small pitchers you 'd use to serve cream ; they 're normally about 3 oz , small enough that it would probably fit under your espresso machine . You could brew the espresso into the pitcher , then pour into your mug ; the spout/lip of the pitcher should help preserve the crema once you figure out what the optimum pouring speed is . It should work similarly to pouring steamed milk : pour too fast , and the foam and milk come tumbling out all at once and you ruin the foam , too slow and the foam gets stuck in the pitcher . But if you pour just right , you should be able to pour most of the liquid first , and wind up with just enough liquid left to slide out the foam so it lands on top of your drink .
There are lots of recipes for oven - " fried " sweet potato chips ( crisps ) and fries ( chips ) and I 'll let you search that part . I 've noticed a wide variation in recommended oven temperatures , from as low as 350 to as high as 450 . Though I 've never had great success with crispiness , my overall best results were with a temp of 425 . Crispiness with sweet potatoes is notoriously difficult due to the high water and sugar content ( which will caramelize and make them appear and to some extent taste burnt , usually long before they crisp up ) . There 's some discussion of this on <URL> . Key points seem to be : remove as much surface moisture as possible prior to cooking avoid overcrowding the pans , especially when cooking thicker cuts use a convection oven if possible If you have success please report back and tell us what worked !
I wo n't claim that this is universal , and I probably would n't try it with scotch bonnets or ghost peppers , but this is what I do with poblanos , seranos , jalapenos , and the like : Treat them like any other vegetable when you prep , using good knife skills , and a well sharpened knife -- good skills minimize how much you touch the product anyway . Do n't touch your eyes or face or anything you do n't have to . When you are done , wash your hands in soapy water . Here is how I would dice a jalapeno ( I like the red ones the best ) or similar small pepper . For this , I would use a paring knife . For a larger pepper , like a poblano , I would use chef knife or a santuko : Cut off the stem end so only the fleshy part of the pepper remains . It will be a little cone . Optionally , cut a tiny part of the tip , to make it easier to separate the flesh , but it is not absolutely required . Cut a a slit into the side of the pepper through the flesh and into the cavity ... then ... continuing the same motion ... ... turn your knife parallel to the flesh , and run the edge of the blade around the inside of the pod so that you are essentially peeling the skin from the core of seeds and membranes . This is much easier to do than to describe in text . Discard the seeds and membranes . Unroll the pepper , skin side up , and flatten the flesh of the pepper out , so it is like a piece of paper . It may split a little when you do this , that is fine . It is easiest to flatten with the outside facing up , but easiest to cut with the outside of the skin facing the cutting board . Turn the pepper sheet over , so it is skin side down . Cut it into long , thin strips -- juliennes . Cross-cut the juliennes into dice . If you want a hotter product , and a more rustic one , with a small pepper , you can simply : Cut of the stem end . Slice the remaining pepper into circles or coins , thinly . If you want very hot dice , you can then : Pile up the coins , and chop through them several times in the standard rocking motion with a chef 's knife .
I think some sort of mechanical aid to macerate the food is necessary for your project . Depending on what dish you attempt , there are few options . A ricer ( or food mill , depending on who you buy from ) is a manual device ( non-electric ) that you might run cooked potatoes or parsnips through . Many people do mashed potatoes this way . Depending how cooked your parsnips get , a hand blender ( or immersion blender , stick blender ) may work . However , all of this requires you to shell out some cash for a device . I 'm not sure , from your post , if that 's an option . If you 're going for ultra-smooth texture for a bisque or other soup , it might be worth it to get one of the small-bowl food processors ( just work in batches ) . Good luck !
The biggest reason to heat milk to almost boiling before fermenting is that it improves the texture of the yogurt . During fermentation the bacteria consume lactose and produce lactic acid which causes the milk proteins to denature and coagulate trapping most of the fat . The proteins involved are primarily the casein proteins . When this happens , there is still quite a bit of protein left that is n't bound up in the new casein mesh . All of the albumin proteins are water soluble and will not add to the structure of the yogurt . These albumin proteins denature when they are heated . For this reason recipes universally call for the milk to be heated to 190 and then cooled . The albumin is denatured and is able to tangle up with the casein during fermentation and add to the yogurt structure . Skipping this step will make a very profound difference to the structure of your yogurt . Without it your yogurt will be thinner and much more fragile . When you scoop it there will be more whey and all that albumin will wash out in it . According to Harold McGee ( On Food and Cooking pp 48 ) " These treatments improve the consistency of the yogurt by denaturing the whey protein lactoglobulin , whose otherwise unreactive molecules then participate by clustering on the surfaces of the casein particles . With the helpful interference of the lactoglobulins , the casein particles can only bond to each other at a few spots , and so gather not in clusters but in a fine matrix of chains that is much better at retaining liquid in its small interstices . "
Depending on what the ginger is going into , lightly greasing your knife blade helps ( but , obviously , not if you 're putting them in something where a tiny bit of oil would be an issue ) . As does using a heavy carbon-steel knife like a Chinese cleaver . Freezing sounds attractive , but it does n't work because the ginger becomes impossible to chop -- too hard . Overall , you pretty much have to expect to scrub the knife and cutting board after you 're done . You can make it a bit easier on yourself , but you ca n't make chopping candied ginger not messy .
Yes , all it is , is flavour . Apple juice and grape juice are 2 things I 've used in the past for non-alcohol people . You can also get away with not using anything as a replacement as long as you use enough of everything else ( butter and parmesan etc ) . Wine just gives a little depth and a sort of ' freshness ' . Edit : I just read the vegetarian part of your question . I 'm assuming you already know , but Parmesan is n't vegetarian , as it is made from rennet ( <URL> ) , and most commonly from the fourth stomach of young calves . The vegetarian substitute 's I 've tried in the past ( Called pasta cheese ) , are not great . However , unlike Parmesan , Gruyere is allowed to be made with vegetable rennet and taste 's great ( I personally prefer it over Parmesan ) .
More is not always better . To extract the most flavour , just let it simmer for a long time ... it just wo n't be a nice cup of coffee , because that way some unwanted flavours are also extracted . To make a good cup of coffee , the water , the coffee , the temperature ( also of the cup itself ) , the time , the grind and the blend all are important . Just as important as the method . Favourite methods are the French press and the espresso machine , but a radical different method is Turkish ' coffee , where they take the coffee to a boil three times and serve it without filtering ... and it 's delicious .
If I understand you correctly , you 're putting frozen chicken thighs in a glassware dish that 's been sprayed with Pam and then putting that into a 350F oven . Since the chicken will take quite a while to thaw and begin emitting juices that will cool the dish , that dish is going to rise to 350F fairly quickly . 350F is hot enough to begin smoking with many oils . Not sure about Pam 's smoke point , but I would bet that if you looked in the oven when the smoke alarm is going off , you 'll see smoke rising from the pan itself , not the chicken or the oven . Solution : Thaw the chicken before cooking or apply oil to the chicken but not the pan .
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
Your local hardware store or DIY shop will likely have an assortment of dust masks you could try . The simplest ones would be cheap and very quick to put on and remove , and should help . It seems a little over the top to have to put on a mask for using pepper , but perhaps you 're extra sensitive and it 's just something you 'll have to deal with . Do you have any reaction at all from eating things with lots of black pepper ? Finally , you might look at how you 're physically dispensing the pepper . If you 're shaking it from a container you 're likely to stir up a small cloud of fine pepper dust . If you 're not already doing so , consider trying to use a tiny measuring spoon or even the wrong end of a regular spoon to scoop a little pepper out of the container directly and add it to your food -- less sprinkling/shaking , less irritant in the air .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
It 's not going to be nice to drink a day later , no matter what . I 'd use it in baking a chocolate cake or something like that instead , if you ca n't bear to throw it out . The problem is not just the reheating , which will further cook the coffee and affect flavour , but that it 's been losing aroma and oxidizing for a day first . If you 're serving it to anyone you like even a little bit , serve them fresh coffee !!
You can do anything with charcoal . One trick that we used to do when we were camping was to line a cardboard box with foil . Several metal grates or skewers would be stabbed into the box walls and a grate with a few coals hung near the bottom . We would use it to bake bread and pizzas . To control the temperature use more or fewer coals . <URL> As long as you are building things - another option to consider is solar oven . They consist of an insulated container , a transparent window , and a reflector . There are a <URL> to choose from . Some of the more permanent models can get above 350F as long as there is direct sunlight . This model was just one of top results from Google but it is a typical design : <URL>
end question
start question
Coriander in a blueberry ice-cream ?
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
I assume we are talking about a variety of the Eastern European treat called Oblatne ( or a variety of that name ) ? Which consists of five to eight layers of store-bought wafers ( not " waffles " - in some languages it 's the same term for both , I know ) , " glued together " by a fatty or caramelly cream , pressed for a few hours and cut into little diamonds ? Like below : <URL> <URL> There are two main methods to create the cream , one based on condensed milk , dulce de leche or caramel , the other on butter , margarine or shortening . Often with an addition of nuts , chocolate and a dash of alcohol . Often , some raw eggs are included as well , so take the appropriate measures for these recipes . The common trait is low humidity in the filling , because otherwise the wafers become soggy and - worst case - could even disintegrate . Recipe requests are off-topic here , but a creative use of the terms wafer , cake , country of origin or some neighboring country , oblatne or oblate and your preferred filling ingredients in your favourite seach engine should set you off in the right direction .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
Start with the milk and add ice cream till you reach the desired consistency . If you want to add ' bits ' start when it is about halfway to the thickness you want
Heavy Whipping Cream ( at least in the States I believe ) has a fat content of 36 % or greater . Light Cream generally sits between 30 % and 36 % . Heavier cream generally will have a " richer " taste . Light Cream will also not whip quite as thick and not hold it 's form as well . That said , for most cases , I 've successfully managed to use them interchangeably . I guess it might make a difference if you were doing something where holding a rigid structure for extended periods of time was important . Note : What various grades of cream/dairy are called varies by region ... Here in Canada we have Whipping Cream 35 % and Heavy Cream ~ 40 % . If I were somewhere where " Light Whipping Cream " sat closer to 30 % , I might grab something a little higher . <URL> <URL>
You want to make a " mint infusion " . Googling this will give you many recipes . Basically you brew the mint like herbal tea : Remove stems , Bruise the leaves a little , Add the leaves to a cup of very hot water , Let steep for a few minutes , strain and throw away the mushy leaves and use the liquid for your flavoring . The liquid will be brown as you are destroying the chlorophyll that makes the leaves green . In most applications I add food coloring to fix this . As you are making chocolate mint ice cream this should not be a problem . Save some of your mint leaves to use as a garnish . I love chocolate mint and I am very excited for you having a bumper crop of it .
Since you say French-style ice cream works fine , but the gelato is freezing rock hard , I suspect the problem may simply be the serving temperature . Gelato needs to be served at a warmer temperature than ice cream . Unfortunately the temperatures I 've found are pretty variable ( some say 5F , some say 10-20F ) , but everyone consistently says gelato needs a higher temperature than ice cream . So just try taking it out of the freezer 15 minutes before you want to serve . If you do n't want to do that , then actual gelato recipes probably wo n't work well , and you 'll have to modify them . You can try some of the usual tricks for softening ice cream : <URL> . But keep in mind that they may cause you to stray a bit from the original gelato flavor or texture !
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
You 've certainly got the right idea - cream of tartar is nothing more than an acidifier and so any acid can be used as a substitute . It combines with water to create tartaric acid . Two important characteristics of cream of tartar are that it is ( a ) dry and ( b ) mostly flavourless . Vinegar , lemon juice , etc. are all wet and add some flavour of their own . The substitution ratio most often cited for baking is 3:1 - that is 3 tsp vinegar or lemon juice for every 1 tsp cream of tartar . Do n't use the 1:1 ratio typically given for egg whites ( meringue ) - the whole point of this in candy is to actually lower the pH , not just stabilize a foam . Again , pay close attention to how much liquid you 're adding , and if it 's significant , adjust the water content accordingly . ( Note : Technically , lemon juice would normally have a lower pH than 5 % white vinegar , but the actual pH of these is so variable that it usually ends up being pointless to worry about it . Consistency is one of the advantages of using cream of tartar . ) You could also use citric acid or ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) . Citric acid is far more concentrated than lemon juice , you would only need to use 1/4 ( 25 % ) of the amount of lemon juice . That ends up being about 3/4 tsp citric acid for 1 tsp cream of tartar . It 's a much closer substitution and does n't change the flavour much . I believe that ascorbic acid is the same . Both are normally sold in anhydrous ( powder ) form , similar to cream of tartar . All that being said , cream of tartar really is n't hard to find , it 's sold in the spice section of any grocery store . One little tin will probably last you many years , so just buy one next time .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
I think it all got too hot , but there might be other problems . Did you mix the cornstarch in completely ? Leaving undissolved cornstarch is a sure way to obtain ' blobs ' . Did you pour the hot milk onto the egg-mixture ? You should do that very slowly and whisk vigorously ( while trying to splash everything ) . If the eggs get too hot , they will coagulate . Did you use a double boiler ? Putting the pan on an open flame will make the bottom too hot and the eggs will coagulate . Even if you did use a double boiler , did you whisk regularly while heating ? The eggs at the bottom will become far warmer than the eggs in the center ... As rumtscho mentioned , a thermometer will be useful for monitoring the done-ness of the custard . Generally , a fully cooked custard should not exceed 80 ° C ; it begins setting at 70 ° C. Source : <URL>
" Sea Salt ice cream " is the one I 've heard about . It 's literally flavored by sea salt . Online recipes are often themed around the game series Kingdom Hearts , in which a main character enjoys this treat . That ought to be enough to help your search :)
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
First , you do n't specify if you mean cream of coconut , or coconut milk . I think coconut milk would be the thing to try here , as it has less fat . Second , if it works , it wo n't be bechamel any more . But this is a technical detail : if it is tasty to you , you should be able to use it as a substitution practically everywhere . Third , does it work ? I have n't tried it , but I would strongly assume that it will . Coconut milk has more fat than normal milk , but this is n't a terrible problem for roux-based sauces . Indeed , I have read recipes ( in reliable cookbooks ) which direct the cook to add melted butter to the roux before or after adding the liquid . Which means that the fat ratio in the sauce is n't too exact ; it is the ratio of flour to water which you have to keep straight . The one thing to pay attention to is that coconut fat melts around 34-35 ° C . So your coconut roux sauce will exhibit noticeable difference in thickness depending on the temperature . As long as you serve it warm , it will be a similar thickness to bechamel . If you let it go cold , it will probably thicken quite a bit . If you plan to serve it cold , adjust the flour amount accordingly .
what i used to do for popping whole cubes is-take out the ice tray from freezer . Put it under running tap of normal temp water ( for 2-4 secs ) from both sides of ice tray , from top and bottom back of ice tray . then twist the trays to remove ice . It pops out shattered ice less frequently .
Coriander leaf/cilantro looks VERY similar to flat leaf parsley . When I have both at the house I sometimes resort to smelling them to know which is which . Cilantro is very strong smelling , and you 'd definitely change the flavor of the dish if you left it out . Flat leaf parsley is significantly more subtle and has a much milder flavor and scent . It is not flavorless , and in a recipe that calls for a lot of it , you 'd really be missing something by leaving it out . When you 've got a recipe that calls for both parsley and cilantro , you 're definitely going to be more able to taste/smell the cilantro more than parsley , but they 'll both contribute different notes . If you have to leave one out , leave out the parsley , but do n't try to make up the volume with more cilantro , as you may wind up overpowering your dish . Just leave the parsley out and proceed as normal . Do not use curly leave parsley in anything -- it is tough and virtually flavorless . It is ONLY a garnish and not worth wasting your time on .
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
end question
start question
What is the difference between sour cream & butter in baked goods ?
The difference is that they 're two completely different ingredients and serve different purposes . Butter is 81 grams fat per 100 grams - or about 80 % fat . Sour cream is only 20 grams fat per 100 grams - about 20 % . In a quick bread like banana bread , recipes often call for fat in the form of oil , not butter , which is almost pure fat . Either way , these recipes need to add moisture ( much like a cake batter ) and sour cream has lots of moisture and , additionally , adds a slight tang . So , recipes usually call for a combination of butter or oil and some sort of wet ingredient like sour cream , milk , yogurt or buttermilk . The more appropriate substitution comparisons would be either : <URL> ? Why sour cream vs yogurt vs milk vs buttermilk ? From Baking Illustrated Banana Bread , page 23 : We still wanted more moisture in the bread , so we tried mixing in milk , buttermilk , sour cream , and plain yogurt . Sour cream added richness to our bread , but it also made for a heavy texture and an unattractive , pebbly crust . Milk added little flavor and created a slick crust . Buttermilk added a delightful tang , but yogurt let the banana flavor stand out . And because yogurt has more solids than buttermilk , it made for a somewhat more solid loaf , which we preferred . As a note , their final recipe uses both melted butter and yogurt .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
Sandwich or quick bread has different heat requirements than artisan breads . Artisan breads require a blast of high heat and humidity right from the beginning . They are usually baked on flat , preheated stones that store a lot of heat . With breads baked in loaf pans the bread is proofed in the pan which is obviously not preheated . The goal is not a blast of high heat but generally even heating . Stoneware and cast iron will hold a lot of heat but that is n't very useful for this type of bread . The big difference that a stoneware loaf pan will make is in the bread 's crust . Unglazed stoneware will let some moisture escape during baking . Stoneware loaf pans are often used for dishes other than bread such as meatloaf where the even heating and heat retention when serving is valuable . Bread baked in stoneware will be crustier in the area covered by the pan than bread baked in metal . This is a more compelling advantage with quickbreads . In my opinion sandwich bread does n't need to be crusty . Metal bread pans are cheaper , lighter , and less fragile . They wo n't even out any heat gradients in a sloppy oven . If you know your oven is unreliable consider getting a thermal mass ( such as a pizza stone ) to even out the temperature . I have n't used a cast iron loaf pan but my first inclination would be to use it for southern-style cornbread . This type of cornbread is normally cooked in a cast iron skillet . The pan would be preheated with hot fat and the cornbread batter would be poured in . The stored heat in the pan would fry the bread before it rose and set . I do n't know why a cast iron pan would be used for normal bread .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
Unfortunately , some of the answer depends on how you define " bacon " , and what you mean by " cured " , and " uncured " . The answer could be different depending on where you live . Are you in the UK ? The USA ? Another country ? I know that what we call bacon can be from different cuts of pork in different regions . Curing can be different depending on where you live , or what flavors the person doing the curing likes to use . There will be salt involved in the curing , and again , depending on where you live and the customs/regulations involved , and often some source of nitrate or nitrite , to prevent some nasty bacteria . A pleasant side effect of these additions is the deepening of the red/pink color many of us associate with bacon , though some of the redness of the meat is based on the diet of the animal , too . ( Whether from saltpeter , or curing salt ( a purposely colored curing salt , to distinguish it from white sodium chloride ) , or celery juice , which contains a high quantity of the same chemicals , the nitrates and nitrites are added in very tiny quantities . They do n't need much , and are usually in smaller concentrations than are found naturally in water and in leafy green vegetables ) What makes the cures taste different ( besides the saltiness ) is the other kinds of herbs , spices , and sweeteners used in the cure mixture , and whether or not the bacon is smoked , to add additional flavors . Texture wise , the main difference between cured and uncured bacon is that the uncured bacon will have a much higher water content than the cured bacon , so the fat will not be as dense .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
Leavening is rising by any means , so baking soda and baking powder ( chemical leaveners ) both apply here , as does yeast ( fermentation ) . Chemical leaveners like baking soda and powder work by mixing an acid ( varies , depending on the recipe ) and base ( usually baking soda in some form ) to produce carbon dioxide gas . Fermentation is the process of yeast converting sugars to carbon dioxide and alcohol . In bread making , the carbon dioxide is the desired product . In beer or wine making , the exact opposite . In both cases ( beer/wine and bread ) , other byproducts produced by the yeast add flavour and are highly desirable . There are other types of fermentation by bacteria ( such as those used in yogurt-making , pickles , or sauerkraut ) that produce lactic acid ; but those are somewhat outside of the scope of this answer ( although lactic acid fermentation by bacteria is responsible for the taste of sourdough breads ) . To specifically answer your question - yes , yeast breads undergo fermentation ( which is also leavening ) . Quick breads like banana bread use chemical leaveners , which are not fermentation .
Eventually , yes ... but it does have a fairly long shelf life . According to <URL> , you should expect 1 to 2 weeks after the date on the package . They say : You can tell if sour cream has gone bad if you notice dark mold on its surface , bright bacterial marks , pockets of watery liquid and a sharp , bitter flavor . First the liquid will begin to separate , at which point it can still be used but within a week you will need to throw it out when you notice mold on the inside of the lid and then in the product .
The best resource I 've seen is here at <URL> . Egg yolk produces a shiny and dark look but remains soft . Egg white is still soft but less shiny . Milk and water only darken it slightly and produce what the article calls a ' satin ' look . Butter makes it shiny , smooth , rich , and well , buttery !
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
Yes , there is ( generally ) a significant taste difference between whole grain mustard and regular yellow mustard . Texture plays a part of it , but it is secondary to the overall difference in flavor . I say generally because there 's a lot of variation in each , and some extremes of one type may approach some extremes of the other type in flavor . Yellow mustard is usually very mild , and vinegar plays a very strong role in the flavor . Whole grain mustard is usually stronger than yellow , and the vinegar flavor is much less pronounced , if not altogether absent . In many situations , one type can usually be substituted for the other , although it is a matter of personal preference , and many people will argue that some uses of mustard are appropriate for one type , but not the other ( for example , I would never use yellow mustard as a condiment for cheese and crackers , but I would use a whole grain mustard for some types of cheese ) .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
Depending on the specific application , you may ( and probably will ) get good results , but the flavor and texture will be may be slightly different when you substitute sour cream for unsweetened , unflavored yogurt . Consider that both of these products are fermented dairy . The main differences are going to be the level of fat ( based on the specific dairy item from which the product was fermented ) , and the level of acid . In many applications , because the characteristics are very similar , the outcomes will be very similar . In some uncooked sauces like tzatziki , you will probably get a delicious result , but it will be different since sour cream tastes slightly different . In cooked sauces like stroghanoff or some curries , again , the result will be similar but different . The one specific issue you may face is whether the sauce breaks , which will be dependent on the level of dairy fat in the sour cream or yogurt , not which one is being used . So you may wish to use a full-fat sour cream for cooked sauces . The one place where they are nearly freely substitute is baking , especially quick breads , where they perform nearly identically . The flavor differences are not dominant .
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
end question
start question
What kind of wood puts the most flavor in the meat ?
I would go with hickory ; it always taste strong , and it is the best for me .
Cookies for shaping are usually rolled cookies . Common categories would include : Sugar cookies ( as Mien mentioned ) Gingerbread Linzer cookie dough Look for recipes where you use a rolling pin . These are already formulated for minimal spread . Adapting other cookie recipes for use with cookie cutters will be trickier , and probably not worth the effort , in my opinion .
It is certainly a fermentation . A simple chemical neutralization would n't need that much time , and would n't produce lasting fizz . You can be certain that there are wild yeasts everywhere : in the air in your kitchen , on your elderflower , probably on your utensils , etc. . It is impossible to say which ones prevailed in the fermentation , the ones you brought in with the elderflower or the ones which came into it from some other sources .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
Bitters originally were supposed to have medicinal properties , which is why some still have " tonic " in their names . Now they 're just a flavoring agent , a concentrated way to enrich the cocktail and bring out more subtle flavor notes . Given how little bitters you put in most drinks , it 's unlikely they alter mouthfeel or other qualities much .
The folks at America 's Test Kitchen did a <URL> and found that the burr mills did n't result in superior consistency to blade grinders . They found that if you stop grinding every now and then and shake the coffee grinder and grind for a total of 25-30 seconds , you get the best results . From the video review : " Lots of people said that these blade grinders chop the beans unevenly . They also said they heat up the beans more because of the friction and that degraded the flavor of coffee . I had dozens of people tasting this coffee and no one picked up flavor differences between the blade-ground and the burr-ground . There were differences in the body but not the flavor ... and we found a way to use the blade grinders to match that body . From the text review : " We found we could improve the evenness of the blade grind either by grinding in short , quick bursts , with stops in between to shake the grinder to redistribute the grounds , or by shaking the grinder as it ground , much as you would a martini in a cocktail shaker . " Their favorite was the Capresso Cool Grind , Model 501 . They did note that you will need a burr grinder for espresso .
<URL> variants may be boiled that long or more -- they do contain black tea , but also spices ( where the boiling is needed , to extract the flavor from whole spices ) . The tea decoction this produces does contain all of the bitter compounds , sure -- but it is mixed with spices , diluted generously with milk and sugar , and becomes a palatable drink that is nevertheless very different from the coolly and weakly brewed variety you seem to be familiar with . In fact , it is even possible that the tea was plain black tea , brewed very strongly . Served with plenty of milk and sugar to balance the bitterness , milk tea is a cultural variation . Think of it kinda like coffee , if you want -- it is bitter , but it is expected to be -- and the tea can be doctored to make it work for the drinker . Tea can be served in lots of different variations , and none are more correct than others -- just like some teas are brewed very light and almost flavorless ( japanese green , and 15 seconds per brew ) , and others are brewed to death and sweetened to balance ( southern style sweet tea ) , some are served with milk , sugar , or lemon , and still more are served with salt or butter ( tibetan ) . Boiled milk tea or chai are brewed to death , to extract all the flavor , and served sweet and milky to balance the strength and bitterness -- and a weakly brewed tea would be tasteless and vanish in the expected fixings .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
Major ways of thickening a sauce -- or , for that matter , some other liquid : Starch ( e.g. , flour , cornstarch , tapioca , arrowroot ) Emulsion ( e.g. , butter , cream , yolk , mustard , blending in lecithin-and-fat ) Coagulated protein ( e.g. , blood , egg , pureed seafood ) Gels/polysaccharides ( gelatin , alginate , xanthan , pectin , agar agar , guar gum ) Suspension ( general puree of solids ) Note that some of the examples of one category can also fit into another .
I think Doug and yossarian both touched on the main points , but to summarize , there are four reasons why you might not want to use a meat thermometer for candy : Range A meat thermometer might go from 140 F to 220 F or something like that , which is plenty for meat . Candy often requires a range from about 75 degrees ( chocolate ) up to 400 + degrees ( hard candy ) . The range on most thermometers is simply not sufficient for most candies . Accuracy When you temper chocolate , 88 F degrees is an ideal working temperature ( for dark chocolate ) . Some people would consider 91 so high you might want to think about starting over . When you make caramels , the difference between 235 F and 240 F can be the difference between wonderfully chewy caramels and a sugar-flavored rock . If you ca n't read one degree increments at a glance , you need a real candy thermometer . Speed Meat thermometers often take 30 seconds to a minute to get an accurate result . When you are making candies , you have to be able to tell what the temperature is right now . Contamination I do n't want the thermometer that goes in semi-raw meat anywhere near my chocolate .
The best seems to be a 1:1 ratio of normal wheat-based flour and rice flour - <URL> . First the wheat flour sticks to the dough and creates a nice smooth surface . Then the rice flour ( which does n't adsorb very quickly ) creates small ' rollers ' that keep the dough from dragging , like ball bearings . This is similar to semonlina or cornmeal for working with pizza . A key part of the technique to a banneton is to sprinkle and rub some flour mix on the surface of the dough first , then sprinkle some flour mix in the basket , then put it seem side up in the basket . No sticking . This same mix and similar technique works wonders for using a peel as well .
Whipped vegetable shortening with powdered sugar . I can make it up a week in advance , probably even longer , and keep it in an airtight container in a cool place . And it has the advantage that it 's pure white ( if you use imitation vanilla extract , or lemon extract ) , so you can get vibrant colors on whatever you 're decorating . If you make too much , you can then make flowers and let them dry out , then store those for a year or more . Here 's the recipe I use , that I got from Jane who taught two of the cake decorating classes I took : Put all ingredients except the water into a mixer . Add 3/4 c. water , and slowly add more to make the consistancy of your choice . Mix on low speed 'til mixed , then on # 6 or 8 for 6 to 7 minutes . Consistency should be " creamy " -- like cream cheese when soft . Stiff icing should be creamy also .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
A really well-sharpened santoku-style chef 's knife is usually my choice . But , it does depend on the type of slicing ... such as thick/thin discs , wedges , or dicing . While I understand that a serrated blade can help with slicing a super-ripe tomato , when I want really thin disc-shaped slices , something very sharp and preferably a thinner spine . The favorite in my kitchen is definitely a Henckel santoku chef blade . Some versions can have a very thick spine , and would n't work as well , though . This type of choice is also more utilitarian if you 're cutting any other veggies at the same time , or making additional cuts in the tomatoes , such as when you 're also going to be halving the discs or full-on dicing . Things I like the thinnest slices on are a ham and cheese melt , roast beef sammy , a sub for the road , and sometimes for a garnish . ( hors d'œuvre , anyone ? ) Also , when I 'm cutting tomatoes into wedges , I also like to use this same type of sharp , non-serrated blade . Otherwise , I find it harder than necessary to do the smaller divisions after the 1/4-of-a - tomato size . I nearly always do 1/8 or 1/12 sized wedges for salad , so it is n't terribly often I use a " real " tomato knife . When I do , is when it 's for a lunch and I do n't want to sully a larger blade , or when doing large batches . Getting the core out is certainly easiest with a smaller , serrated blade .
What 's wrong with letting the liquid escape ? The liquid is good ! When I freeze sweetcorn , I slice through just the outer part of the kernels , and then turn the knife sideways and scrape to release the rest of the delicious gooey liquid inside them ... I 'm not particularly fond of the flavor or texture of the cob-side anyway , and the creamy result can be packed and frozen with a minimal amount of air . I highly recommend using a chef 's knife instead of a paring knife though . A big cutting board and a <URL> also come in handy . If you 're doing a lot of corn at once , a baking sheet works well to catch the juice . Growing up , we 'd get a bunch of people together and do bushels of the stuff in an afternoon - cooking , icing , cutting , scraping , and packing simultaneously . With a bit of practice , you become quite fast at it . But , if you 're simply looking for a quick way to process the ears alone , there are specialized tools made for this job : search for <URL> or <URL> . You could probably use a mandoline as well , provided you 're able to adjust the depth of the blade . Frankly though , this seems cumbersome . Practice with the knife ...
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
I would think that USDA would err on the side of conservative when it comes to safety , especially with no financial interests in the equation <URL> Perishable foods should never be thawed on the counter , or in hot water and must not be left at room temperature for more than two hours . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food could be in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F -- temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When thawing frozen food , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw in the refrigerator where it will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- at 40 ° F or below . There are three safe ways to thaw food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . They 're all covered in the above link , but here 's the fastest one since it best meets your requirement of reasonably quick results : Microwave thawing When thawing food in a microwave , plan to cook it immediately after thawing because some areas of the food may become warm and begin to cook during the thawing process ( bringing the food to " Danger Zone " temperatures ) . Holding partially cooked food is not recommended because any bacteria present would n't have been destroyed and , indeed , the food may have reached optimal temperatures for bacteria to grow . After thawing in the microwave , always cook immediately after , whether microwave cooking , by conventional oven , or grilling . Foods thawed in the microwave should be cooked before refreezing . And when all else fails : Cooking without thawing When there is not enough time to thaw frozen foods , or you 're simply in a hurry , just remember : it is safe to cook foods from the frozen state . The cooking will take approximately 50 % longer than the recommended time for fully thawed or fresh meat and poultry . From personal experience , I prefer the cold water method to microwave for fast thawing , but I rarely if ever use a microwave anyway so others on here might have techniques that minimize the flavor/quality downside of it . The factors that make the microwave method less safe are what also lower the quality , taste and texture of the food -- the unevenly thawed parts , over-cooking some of it while undercooking other areas , etc. .
Graphics and quoted text from : <URL> Grains , by definition , have 3 major parts : the germ , the endosperm , and the bran . Whole grains are those that have all of the parts of the natural seed , or kernel ( not including an exterior husk that is generally inedible ) . To be called " Whole Grain " the product must still have all of the bran , endosperm and germ that it had when it was in the field , although it can milled , ground , cracked , natural , whatever ... as long as it still has all of its parts . If a food label states that the package contains whole grain , the " whole grain " part of the food inside the package is required to have the same proportions of bran , germ , and endosperm as the harvested kernel does before it is processed . Refining normally removes the bran and the germ , leaving only the endosperm . Without the bran and germ , about 25 % of a grain 's protein is lost , along with at least seventeen key nutrients . Processors add back some vitamins and minerals to enrich refined grains , so refined products still contribute valuable nutrients . This graphic shows what 's lost when wheat is refined , and what 's added back when it 's " enriched " : Durum is just a variety of wheat . Unless it specifically says " whole wheat " or " whole grain " , you can assume that it is refined .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
You ca n't just pick up any old wood chips but you can get ones for cooking at the hardware store . Even Home Depot or Lowes should have wood-for-smoking available . You have to be careful since if you get chips made out of treated lumber for example the resulting smoke could be poisonous . Probably not something you want to eat . You also want to avoid poisonous wood or trees . Warnings aside , you can use just about any non-poisonous hardwood to make woodchips . Just make chunks or chips out of nice dry seasoned logs . Usually , people use wood with interesting favors to add such as fruit tree woods ( apple , pear , cherry ) . Other popular woods are mesquite , hickory , or maple .
end question
start question
In a tomato sauce recipe , how can I cut the acidity ?
My secret weapon is onion . Caramelize the onions first . This creates a natural sweetness . Always use ripe tomatoes ; if you can not then use canned . The canned are made from ripe tomatoes and tend to be a very good substitute . Also , the celery and carrot suggestions are very much a good addition - you are making a classic tomato sauce when you include the celery and carrots , 1 part each celery and carrot to 2 parts onion . Add the onions first to get the caramelization . I do n't get too fancy with herbs , usually one good fresh herb does it for me , basil or sage are two favorites of mine . There is a suggestion to add cream , why not use the parmesan end you may have in your fridge , it is dairy and allowed to slowly simmer in the sauce will lend a very nice flavor note . Acidic sauces are usually reserved for nights when I make a puttanesca sauce - it goes with the capers and calamata olives I add to it . Do n't forget to season with salt and pepper .
<URL> gives you 3-5 days on cooked onions in the fridge - after that , tightly wrapped and airtight into the freezer .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
Put in a ziplock bag with a piece of paper towel to absorb moisture , and stick in the fridge . Also applies to lettuce .
When I use fresh onions , we store the unused parts for up to a week in our fridge in either a ziploc or a sealable rubbermaid-style container . For particularly pungent onions they go in the crisper drawer to keep the smell from being too strong in the rest of the fridge , but usually they 're just on one of the shelves . <URL> 2-3 days but my personal experience says otherwise . Generally in our house , they do n't last long enough for the flavor to degrade too much , but they will get a little dried and the smell will get stronger over time . After a week , they should n't be bad in the sense that you 'll get sick - but you 'll want to use them in a meal where the onion is the star , as the aroma will take over the dish . Another option that I 'm a big fan of is to dice or strip the leftovers ( or , a 5 lb bag at once ! ) and freeze them on a cookie sheet ( instead of in a bag , where they 'll turn into a giant clump ) . Once fully frozen , dump them into a plastic freezer bag , and store in the freezer for easy access to a handful at a time . For most applications , you can defrost them right in the pan/pot/casserole as you cook , so they 're very handy and accessible . We do the same with peppers in our house for convenience .
Citrus zest is where most citrus flavour in a sauce or baked good actually comes from because it remains in solid form , like herbs and spices . The juice adds some flavour but it turns into solution and gets spread out over a very large surface area/volume . I do n't know why you decided not to use the zest - are you using commercial orange juice ? If so , that may be part of the problem too - processed juices are not going to be as flavourful as homemade , in part because of the mechanical separation of pulp ( even if it is subsequently re-incorporated to make a juice " with pulp " ) . Orange juice is effectively your water in this recipe so doubling it means you need to double everything else . In other words you 'll have exactly the same ratios and therefore exactly the same taste . If it came out too dry then that means you either ( a ) baked too long , ( b ) overworked the batter , ( c ) <URL> or ( d ) <URL> . Nothing to do with the OJ content . If you really want to add more orange flavour beyond what the original recipe would give you , use <URL> , it 's a highly concentrated orange flavour and is usually derived from ( surprise ! ) the zest , or made to taste like one . But I would suggest to try following the recipe correctly before doing this .
In casseroles , pot pies and the like , condensed soup is usually added without additional water . It serves as a thickening agent and will pick up sufficient water from whatever vegetables etc. you also have in the recipe . That 's not to say you never add water along w the soup , it 's just that the desired end result is more often some sort of solid casserole-like dish than merely a souped up soup . If you 've uncooked , dry , noodles in there too , you will have to add some liquid beyond the condensed soup , so as to allow them to hydrate properly .
It 's been a while since I made sushi but 2 tablespoons does sound a little on the ridiculous side . Various other recipes use similar amounts ( to each other ) : <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 4 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tbsp kosher salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 2 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 1/2 cup sugar ) <URL> : 1/2 tsp salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 1 tbsp sugar ) In fact , although sushi rice recipes tend to vary significantly with respect to the proportions of rice , vinegar , and sugar , they are all remarkably consistent on the amount of salt . The Alton Brown recipe calls for a tablespoon , but 1 tbsp of kosher salt is in fact equivalent to 1-2 tsp of table or sea salt . Even on the Epicurious recipe , the 1/2 tsp is only for 1 cup of rice - you 'd double it to the same 1 tsp for the standard 2 cups . I assume that the recipe you 're looking at must have meant 2 tsp and not tbsp , but I think even that is too much ; I would stick to the 1 tsp used in almost every sushi rice recipe I 've ever seen .
Thickening with starch or flour instead of roux can be quite acceptable if some other rich flavors are added . Here is where the calories can be traded in : Good low-fat broth for part of the liquid . celery root or coriander root are particularly good ing . for veggie broth Puree , in small amounts add body and flavor . soft cooked onion is particularly silky and surprisingly mild Flavorsome oils , few drops instead of copious butter . Macadamia punches above its weight . Sesame toasted ( tiny amount ) or if feeling adventurous , pricklyash from Asian market . lower-fat ' milks ' can add luscious body instead of cream or 3 % dairy milk . Unsweetened Almond or coconut does n't overwhelm most sauces .
It does n't do anything , it 's your second suggestion . The feeling of " right/wrong " and " like/dislike " is highly correlated with familiarity . This is proven not only by psychometry , but even physiologically , with fMRI scans . People like most whatever they are familiar with , up to the point that unfamiliar things seem wrong . This applies not only to bay leaves , but also to all other tastes ( or taste combinations ) and many other areas of life , even beyond sensory perception . You can teach yourself to like bay-leaf-less sauce too , by just eating it frequently enough that it becomes familiar . But I do n't see any advantages in doing so . Just cook with bay leaf and enjoy it .
The Chinese eggplant will have a thinner skin , less seeds ( read : less bitterness ) ; as a result , it will have an overall more delicate flavor . You can substitute a globe eggplant ( the kind usually sold in American grocery stores ) equally ; just be aware you 'll get extra " eggplant " flavor . Since the recipe you 're using has strong flavors already , this should not be a problem . However , if the recipe were using more delicate flavors , it would not turn out quite as the recipe author intended .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
There are things you can do to tweak the colors , but generally it 's easy to move towards brown and dark , and hard to move towards a pure shade and light . You can use food coloring , spices with a lot of color ( like turmeric ) . You can lighten with cornstarch , flour , and dairy . ( thanks satanicpuppy ) If presentation is important to you , you can buy ingredients that make it easier to get the colors you want in the final product . For instance , next time you make the dish you could use <URL> and a little more sugar .
I would n't bother keeping the skins , if they 're hurting the texture . Many recipes using tomatoes end up removing skins for this reason . My exec chef showed me an easy way to remove the skin from tomatoes ( we were doing tomato concasse ) : Wash tomatoes thoroughly , and slice a shallow cross in the bottom . Bring a pot of water to a rolling boil , and also prepare an ice water bath nearby . Drop tomatoes into the boiling water for 30 seconds to a minute , until the skin starts to crack . Using a slotted spoon , transfer tomatoes to ice water to cool for a minute or two Peel -- the skin should already be peeling back around the X-mark .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
I happen to have watched a TV show the other day about this very problem and they suggested making a big batch of whatever filling or fillings you are thinking of using ( presently or in the future ) and go ahead and make them all up and freeze them ready to cook . They were making several kinds of ravioli that day . They made them all up and placed them on cookie sheets to freeze and then placed them in ZipLock bags and they had a nice supply to pull out of the freezer whenever they were ready to cook them . They did n't have a problem with brittle wontons once they were filled . They used beaten egg to seal the edges so the filling would n't ooze out . You can use this same method for any shape or filling ... does n't have to be ravioli , of course .
You can rescue it by starting the process again , with an egg yolk in a bowl over a bain-marie which you whisk until it starts to thicken a little . then incorporate a little warm melted butter into the egg yolk . Once this is incorporated you can slowly start to add the split hollandaise and this should then incorporate into the new base , unsplit . There is a video <URL>
It is simply to add tartness to add some balance against the sugar . The water from the vinegar will evaporate and leave behind acetic acid . There is an old fashioned type of hard candy known as <URL> . Your lollipop is essentially just that candy on a stick .
Raw Personally , growing up I 've usually just eat it raw after it 's ripened . That 's the only form that i 've a experienced a persimmon . Nonethless , a quick google reveals use as a sauce : This morning , I cooked the last of the mushy persimmons into a second batch of persimmon sauce . The first , served over bread pudding on a whim one evening , was so popular that it was deemed worthy of the last persimmons . It 's simple and delicious , primarily because , as I discovered , a generous serving of nutmeg and a bit of meyer lemon is the best way to season persimmon anything ! Source : <URL> In this article , Oakland Garden Kitchen blogger , also lists a recipes for <URL> published by David Lebovitz . Lebovitz has a very comprehensive <URL> . Persimmon in Bread In this blog , he provides an adaptation of <URL> , " Beard on Bread " , Persimmon Bread recipe . If you do n't like this version of the recipe . Epicurean has <URL> . Persimmon as an Entree Wine Press NW also once published a recipe of use of persimmon as a <URL> .
end question
start question
Which foods are high in umami ?
Umami comes from a very specific source : <URL> . MSG is a glutamate , so it is one of the best ways to add a bit of umami . Meat , Kombu seaweed ( used to make Dashi , and hence Dashi ) , mushrooms , onions , cheeses , soy and other beans , most high-protein foods . <URL> is a quick list . Most are prepared foods , but it should give you an idea .
It is the rice that is important , regardless of the cooker you use . If you think you are unable to find Sushi rice on your own in local market , why not check with a Sushi stall chef/owner near by ? Some people get mistaken with sticky rice , because really Sushi and sticky are on the same category . You could even say that Italian risotto is as well . However sushi rice is rinsed and surface starch is removed . Yamikuronue has already given you some good insight . Perhaps she could tell you what rice you could buy :) I hope you have the basic sushi rolling bamboo mat to help you with . From mine and many of others ' experience , the mat is very useful . I have used <URL> to make nice maki rolls . The following <URL> seems to be indicating a method ( water sprinkling ) that I saw/ate in a Japanese restaurant in Tokyo near Maru building . Hope it helps . Edit 1 : If you want to make best sushi out of normal rice , this is a bruteforce method we tried at home for the first time . Not the best Sushi found in a Sushi bar in Japan , but still it was a taste to remember , and an experience that made sense . break the long grain rice ( you can use a mortar , or bottle , or any clean/non-contaminated cylinder on your cutting board :) ) wash the rice until the starch goes away - even if it 's not 100 % , it 's good enough when you have soaked it . soak the rice rinse and wash again and rinse depending on the usual ' hardness ' of the rice you use , and how much water you add per cup of rice , you may have to change the amount of water you add . For example , if you have 50g of raw rice , and 75g of water , then the total weight is 125g . You must keep the same total weight when you add water to the soaked/washed rice . you can very well cook the rice in a pan good heat to cook rice : after boiling , bring down the heat to minimum and let it be , no need to take lid off once rice is cooked , you can mix it with sushi vinegar . If you do not have rice/sushi vinegar , then you can add some plain vinegar and pinches of salt mix all , stir well This gives you just nice rice for sushi :)
Non-native and out of season fruits and vegetables that are available in northern countries ( e.g. UK , Canada ) need to be shipped from far away and will be picked before they are naturally ripe ( under the normal sun and heat and getting nutrients from the soil ) . They will ripen in controlled environments ( UV lights , maybe controlled atmosphere and temperature ) to be able to be ripen on time during the long transit to be ready when they are put on shelves in your local stores . In the UK , it is currently the high season for strawberries ( I assume it is the same time as in Québec ) ; compare locally-grown strawberries to imported strawberries and compare the flavour and aromas . ( anecdotal ) A quick tip when buying imported fruits ( and vegetables ) ; keep them outside of the fridge as much as possible , and if planning to eat soon , place them in the sun for a little while and the flavours will get better .
One of my favorite topics , having grown up close to two apple orchards ... Most likely , by " quick-cooking , " the recipe intends you to use a pie or sauce apple , i.e. one that softens readily with heat . Sauce apples . Use these for a pie if you like VERY soft pie contents . Personally , I prefer applesauce that has some chunks in it , so I do n't use " sauce apples " for sauce ; however , the standard is to list for sauce those apples that practically dissolve ( like McIntosh ) . Pie apples . An apple listed for pie is typically one that retains its shape but softens well ( like Cortland , Mutsu , Empire , Jonagold , or Fuji ) . Consider the taste . Some apples ( Gala , for example ) lose a lot of flavor when cooked , and are best for eating raw . Others gain tremendous flavor when cooked ( Empire ) . Which apple to use is certainly a matter of preference . Some people like their pie apples to remain quite firm ( using , say , Granny Smith ) , while others like them to be VERY soft ( and thus use a " sauce " apple ) . Here 's some apple lists/charts ... I 'd say look up the varieties readily available to you , and see which ones are listed for sauces or pies . <URL> <URL> Look up the website for your local orchard - they may link to a usage chart for the apples they grow !
There is no single universal answer to this question , as it depends on the specific food and outcome desired , but there are a couple of common themes that influence whether starting from cold water or boiling water is the preferred method : Larger foods that need to cook through may overcook on the outside before the inside is cooked , if started in boiling water . For example , potatoes are usually started in cold water so that they cook through to the center . Some foods contain enzymes that will be deactivated at boiling questions , but may act more quickly at lower temperatures . Starting in boiling water would be for when it is desirable that the reactions be inhibited ; starting in cold water facilitates the reactions continuing . Sometimes it is simply for precision to get a repeatable recipe . Boiling water is always the same temperature ( at least for a given altitude ) , so beginning cooking at the boil is reliable and repeatable compared to starting with cold water which may have an unknown temperature curve as it comes up to the boil .
OK , this is dangerously close to a recipe request , but far enough away that I feel OK to answer . Use the rule of two . 2 cups of sugar 2 two oranges 2 limes 2 lemons Juice and zest the whole fruit . Strain and and fill to 1 gallon with water . Filter if you want it to be clear . Carbonate using whatever technique you normally use whether that 's a Cornelius keg or soda stream .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
Your answer of " everything except arrowroot " is spot on . You should use a corn starch slurry in all likelihood . It is less expensive and more commonly available and will not <URL> ; corn starch is also purported to have a creamier texture . Arrow root also may have been overcooked by your preparation as described in your comment as it has a lower temperature that it needs to reach relative to other thickeners . Keep it handy for your acidic sauces , but keep to corn starch for the dairy . A benefit of arrowroot in clear sauces is that it wo n't make the sauce cloudy as will corn starch ; however with dairy this is not a concern .
Poultry grading in the US is voluntary , while inspection is mandatory . Per the <URL> : Chicken Inspection All chickens found in retail stores are either inspected by USDA or by State systems which have standards equivalent to the Federal government . Each chicken and its internal organs are inspected for signs of disease . The " Inspected for wholesomeness by the U.S. Department of Agriculture " seal ensures that the chicken is free from visible signs of disease . Chicken Grading Inspection is mandatory , but grading is voluntary . Chickens are graded according to the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service 's regulations and standards for meatiness , appearance , and freedom from defects . Grade A chickens have plump , meaty bodies and clean skin , free of bruises , broken bones , feathers , cuts , and discoloration . The actual US poultry grading standards can be found in the <URL> . Grade A chicken overall ( the actual standards take 5 pages ) : Looks nice -- no discolorations , marks , bruises , or inappropriate cuts Has at least 75 % of the skin covering it ( where appropriate ) Is plump and " well fleshed " All the feathers have been removed Any chicken that was actually graded will almost certainly be labelled , as it is a marketing issue . Otherwise , it is ungraded but inspected chicken . My personal experience is that most retail chicken , at least where I live , is ungraded . Factors that affect the toughness or quality of the chicken , in decreasing order of importance , include : The age of the bird Any injections or additions to the meat , such as a saline brine , by the packer ; brining partially denatures the proteins in the meat , and may contribute to the " rubbery " texture mentioned in the question The way the bird was treated and fed ( some heirloom or boutique chickens are raised in a more traditional manner , where they move about much more , and may have a more varied diet , and so have tougher , but more flavorful meat as a result -- but I do n't want to turn this into a political treatise on poultry production methods ) The breed of the bird The size of commercial chicken is almost entirely related to the age of the chicken ; thus the relative toughness of the meat is fairly well correlated with size .
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
Pickled ginger is the proper palate cleanser to use with sushi , which helps keep flavors from mixing when you 're trying several different kinds of rolls . So at least with sushi there 's a specific palate cleanser , and I imagine there are others for other types of food .
Using both is fine . I would reserve some of the green end to sprinkle on top for presentation . The white part is stronger so you may want to add it a little at a time .
As long as they are n't spoiled they 'll be fine for a crumble/crisp/cobbler . You 'll want to have someone else taste them to make sure first . They may need less sugar and less or no precooking . If they are really , really mushy then you might want to add some firmer plums or other fruit to give some texture .
The larger ring will transmit more energy , but spread over the size of the ring ; so the density is probably roughly the same . So using an element bigger than your pot/wok bottom is basically just a waste of heat/energy . Some supporting evidence added by DMA57361 : I 've recently gotten a free energy monitor , which tells me the current power consumption of my entire home . So , with a bit of experimentation , I have worked out the approximate power output of each ring on my hob , and this backs up that they have approximately the same output density .
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
In regards to the general question , our brains are wired to like fats ; they are compact sources of energy . However , too much fat in a given dish can feel unpleasant in the mouth , and acid washes that away ( in terms of perception , the same way that adding sugars changes the perception of how acidic something is ) . I believe ( by which I mean this is what I think , with no evidentiary basis whatsoever ) this is a learned response , but I could very well be wrong . The pairing of acids with fish , however , does have a scientific basis . According to <URL> : " Acid conditions cause heavy-smelling aldehydes , which accentuate the fishiness of <URL> , to react with water molecules and become nonvolatile , so that lighter alcohols dominate the aroma . " ( 2004 edition , p. 238 , hardcover )
The vanilla chapter of Ian Hemphill 's " Spice and Herb Bible " says , Vanilla is also delicious in savory cooking because it is not overtly sweet . An innovative Mauritian restaurant in Sydney served a delicious vanilla chicken [ ... ] It was aromatic delicate and beautifully balanced . The same book has a recipe for Vanilla Salmon Salad where vanilla seeds are scraped into the dressing . I did a quick taste test using vanilla extract with various savory things from my fridge . Here are the results : Cheese : tasted fine , but I would n't call it a taste sensation ; Vegeburger : nasty combination ; I think the leeks in the burger were a problem ; Avocado : actually quite a nice combination ; Roasted aubergine : not bad ; Tomato : fine ; Savory omelet : not good ; onions do n't seem to work with vanilla extract ; Baked beans in tomato sauce : very nice . Note that using vanilla extract and a vanilla bean to flavor a dish are not the same thing . There is an amount of alcohol in the vanilla extract I used ( bourbon ) and this may completely invalidate the test . Having said that , the first indications are that alliums ( onions , leeks , garlic etc ) do n't go with vanilla . So onion soup may not be a good plan . And since curry generally contains plenty of onion and garlic , I 'm skeptical about using it there too . Turning to the question of whether vanilla and vanillin become dangerous when heated , the answer is almost certainly no . That does n't mean that heating vanilla is inconsequential . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " mentions that vanilla beans contain more than 200 volatile compounds and notes , Prepared vanilla extracts [ ... ] are best added toward the end of cooking ; any period of time spent at a high temperature causes aroma loss . On the other hand , heating vanillin at normal cooking temperatures ( i.e. normal for soup and curry ) is not a problem . Its <URL> . As another answer mentions , vanilla has a more complex taste to pure vanillin . Most of what you will read comparing the two will be very much in favor of using real vanilla beans in cooking . Instead of repeating this advice , I 'm reminded of having read that in a Cook 's Illustrated <URL> to synthetic vanillin , the artificial flavoring came out on top . It 's probably not be enough to conclude that vanillin tastes better than vanilla but may encourage you to forge ahead if vanillin is all you can afford . Update : Having read @papin 's suggestion that you may need to caramelize the onions , I just did a quick taste test with rostad lök ( not sure how it translates from Swedish , the literal translation is toasted onion ) . It tasted slightly better but still not great . Again , I 'm using vanilla extract so my taste test is not necessarily valid .
What would a network-attached scale even do ? You 'd have to configure it to report to something , or have something else poll for it ( and then you 'd still have to configure it , either via DHCP , BOOTP or similar to set its IP address ) . It 'd be a security nightmare , as it 'd be like a network attached medical device ( or old printer ) that never gets updates to deal with security vulnerabilities . Some sort of a serial connection like RS-232 or USB is just plain safer in this situation . ... and there are plenty of USB digital scales , as they 're used by companies to weight packages &amp; print out postage . The only reason to not go with USB might be distance limitations ( 5m for USB 2 ) , but you can get USB over Cat5 ' extenders ' . ( which would then meet your ' cat5 ' cable requirement ... but you can also get DB9 ( or DB25 ) to RJ45 adaptors , if you just want to run 232 over cat5 ) ( I 'm a programmer/sysadmin at a US government agency so it 's possible that my security concerns are a little higher than most other people 's . Even if you keep it on an isolated network to only talk to the terminal , odds are that the terminal is going to need to be updated at some point , and you risk it getting infected . Even if they exist , it 's just not worth the trouble . And yes , I do know about the <URL> )
Do n't reuse an old milk jug for storing the new , combined milk . The standard plastics used in milk jugs in most areas can not be properly sanitized for reuse ( even with standard sanitizing solutions ) . Instead , use a properly sanitized and covered glass or plastic container , preferably one that you clean in a hot water dish washer . Milk stored in a properly cleaned container will have the maximum shelf life ( and reduced chance of other contaminants ) .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
end question
start question
How is white pizza sauce made ?
White pizza sauce is n't nearly as defined as red sauce . It 's largely whatever you want it to be . It 's literally any sauce you top a pizza with that is white . It is often dairy based ( cream or cheese added ) , but it could also be a thin parsnip puree . It may contain herbs , it may contain butter , its up to you . Again , thickness is up to you and whatever works for your dish .
Steam a head of cauliflower , puree it . Add it to the soup . You might also consider some squash or sweet potato puree .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
I admit , I 've never attempted making stroop ( apple or otherwise ) on my own ... but some <URL> mentioned that there 's something called ' <URL> ' which sounds like it might be quite similar , based on the description of the end consistency and the amount of sugar used .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
If you insist on using a damp cloth , you have to make it wet again and again , so this is quite cumbersome especially with long proofing times . Much easier is plastic wrap , which does n't prevent the dough from rising if you use it to cover a sufficiently large bowl . Tightly wrapping the dough itself obviously wo n't work . My prefered method for these very long raises is a large food-safe plastic container with a lid . It does n't have to be super-airtight and as I usually do a round of " stretch and fold " or quick punchdown every 12-24 hours I never had a problem with dried or overflowing dough .
I have had a pizza with a drizzle of olive oil on top ( in addition to some basil , pesto , and something else ) . As best I remember , it did not end up looking , feeling , or tasting particularly " oily " , although it was visually apparent ( olive-green lines ) . However , that was a high-end pizzeria ; I 've never seen oil on a delivered pizza , at least not any that was intentionally added as a separate ingredient . Oil that is orange or yellow comes out of the cheese ( and salami or other fatty ingredients ) during cooking . Inexpensive ingredients often have much more grease than higher-quality alternatives .
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
Typically that would be whatever was used for dusting the loaves or the bannetons , either flour , starch or sometimes <URL> . It is done to prevent sticking and for decorative purposes - often both : <URL> ( <URL> )
There can be several factors here . The first is the flour . Are you really using bleached cake or pastry flour ? If you are using all purpose flour , especially if it is unbleached ( and bleached is banned in some countries ) , you will get a more yellowish hue of the dough . This is the most likely culprit . If you are in Europe , try mixing 405er flour ( or the local equivalent ) with starch in a ratio of 2:1 . The second is the color of the filling . The human visual system does not work in an absolute way , it constructs color relative to all information available . So if there is higher color contrast , and especially more yellow in the filling , the outside will be whiter . The original recipe requires you to use a custard powder with coloring . If you skipped that ingredient , or used an uncolored powder , or your eggs were not as dark as those in the original recipe , then your filling was maybe paler than the original , not creating enough contrast for the bun to appear white . You can add some food coloring of your own if you do n't have access to that powder . The third thing to keep in mind are your expectations . Color gets changed a lot from the capture in a digital camera to your perception on your monitor . Contrast gets changed in-camera and in post production , and most monitors are set up in a way which overemphasizes contrast . It is entirely possible that you would have a different impression of the buns if you saw them in person , than from the picture you are seeing in the blog .
A roux is just cooking flour in an equal amount ( or thereabouts ) of fat . If you 've already done it in butter , you already know what you are doing . Butter is tricky because there is some water left in the butter and the fat itself has a low smoke point . After making a roux with butter , another fat is easy . Butter contains water , but it 's not so picky that the small amount of water matters as far as measuring the butter ; it 's more about compensating for the butter 's behavior and not allowing it to burn . Do the same thing with any oil as you have with butter , and you will be fine . If anything , you will find it easier with another fat . Just go roughly 50/50 and take your time .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
Yes , yes there is . Black truffles are dark , earthy , sexy in flavour . Renaissance writings compare them to ' unwashed slatterns ' and ' bedchambers , rooms of sexual congress , unaired and reeking of the recent activities contained therein . ' White truffles are lighter in aroma and flavour , with distinct garlicky notes . Each has their place -- black works better on its own , white works better as an adjunt or finishing note to a dish . I am personally partial to white truffle oil drizzled on cured duck breast , or a black truffle risotto with charred endive .
This <URL> , which wipes right off and is indeed harmless , is called the " bloom " of the grape or sometime the " blush " . As described <URL> , ( the wiki for Fermentation in winemaking ) , it contains trace amounts of natural yeast , though thought to be the result of ambient yeast rather than the result of growth process proper . <URL> we find a more thorough answer , It 's mostly harmless wax , says Kay Bogart , a winemaker who works in outreach for the University of California at Davis 's viticulture program . The grape plant produces it to protect the berries from moisture loss . It 's also often just plain old dust , adds Jim LaMar , a professor of wine sensory evaluation at California State University , Fresno . Until recently , winemakers believed the white stuff was yeasts , responsible for wine fermentation . Now they believe such yeasts are airborne . In any case , that white stuff is n't pesticide residue . Which is not to say that there is n't pesticide residue on the grape , so wash it anyway before you pop it into your mouth . In the book Caravaggio : A Life Sacred and Profane by Andrew Graham-Dixon , we find of Roman mythology the following statement regarding Bacchus , the ancient god of wine and intoxication , The bloom on the grapes , which dusts them with a layer of whiteness and dulls the reflected light caught in their opalescent skins , is echoed by the dry and whitish lips of the god himself . <URL>
From <URL> There 's a difference between bubbles formed from under-proofing versus over-proofing . Bubbles from under-proofing tend to be flat but large in diameter . If unpopped , they can blow up an entire pizza . This is the process by which pita or pocket bread is made . Bubbles from over-proofing tend to be high but smaller in diameter . They rise up like little ping-pong balls and eventually form a hole at the top , at which time they stop expanding . They almost always burn . Most pizza bubbling problems are of the under-proofed type . To resolve a bubbling problem , dough fermentation must be adjusted accordingly . To stop bubbling caused by under-proofed dough , increase the amount of fermentation . To stop bubbling caused by over-proofed dough , reduce the amount of fermentation . In addition to proper proofing , it has been found that reducing the amount of water in a dough formula can help with reducing bubbling when dealing with the under-proofed type . The reduction in moisture aids in creating the pinpoint holes in the cells walls . In addition , you want to make sure you properly knead your dough . Some people poke tiny holes in the dough to prevent overly large bubbles . As a final resort you could observe your pizza in the oven and poke bubbles as they form .
How to throw dough , a basic step by step guide . Make sure you have a dough that can stand up to being airborne . This means that you need a high gluten dough . You can throw wetter doughs as you get more experienced but they require much more precise hand placement and are much less forgiving . Make sure your dough is fully risen with out being " blown " . It should be elastic and soft to the touch . Coat dough in flour . This step is necessary to allow free spinning on your hands and to get good , clean releases . Create crust . You can use the method that daniel describes , you can use the Papa John 's fold and tuck method , you can do it like this <URL> , it does n't matter as long as you end up with a piece of dough that is flat over the interior with a ridge going around the outside . You should be comfortable with in-air hand stretching before you get to the actual throwing . This is when you place the dough on the backs of your hands , support it with your knuckles and stretch it out . This position is a great way to start a basic toss that wo n't rip your dough as you will be catching with the backs of your hands and not your fingers . You want to release the dough by having your right hand provide upward thrust as your left hand provides spin . This will provide a straight up toss that is very easy to catch . The way to do the more advanced throws is learn to release from your finger tips . This involves having your fingers rest along the ridge that we made in step four . You can check out a quick tutorial starting at 2:17 on this <URL> . Feel free to ignore the rest of it , but it was the best explanation I found online . Basically , you want the dough to hang in such a way as to allow you to impart spin and momentum with just one hand , while other is occasionally used as a stabilizer . This allows tricks like the <URL> and the through the legs and all the others . Important tips that will help you be successful at learning this skill . Cold dough is more elastic than warm dough . That means its terrible for pizza but great for practicing . It also resists puncture a little better , so less holes . A damp kitchen towel has about the same aerodynamics as a piece of dough . It 's what I used to train the guys at my restaurant on for extra practice , and it 's way cheaper than one of those rubber doughs . The dough should always be spinning in the air . If it 's not , you are n't doing it right . Throwing dough can result in a very thin middle . You want to make sure that you are stretching evenly and keeping an eye on that if you intend to use the dough for it 's actual purpose of delicious pizza . Practice , Practice ! Throwing dough is a physical skill and you have to train your muscles a little to be good at it . It can be a little frustrating at first but stick with it , it 's a lot of fun . If you have any additional concerns leave a comment and I 'll do my best answer them .
Last summer was a long time ago . The National Center for Food Preservation has this to say about <URL> Oils may be flavored with herbs if they are made up for fresh use , stored in the refrigerator and used within 2 to 3 days . There are no canning recommendations . ... Pesto is an uncooked seasoning mixture of herbs , usually including fresh basil , and some oil . It may be frozen for long term storage <URL> is a serious enough hazard with oiled herbs that I 'd not trust a dash of lemon juice on top of the oil to protect me from getting sick after 9 months storage . You 're much safer freezing the stuff as recommended . Ice cube trays produce nice pesto cubes that you can store safely in a freezer bag for at least a couple years .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
Short version : If it 's only overnight , and you seal the containers reasonably well , you 'll be okay prepping any of those ingredients ahead of time and storing them in the refrigerator overnight . I often leave onions in the fridge when preparing a recipe that calls for only half an onion , or if I 've decided to use less than I prepped , or if I 'm making a salsa and I chop the onions before realizing I do n't have as many tomatoes as I thought , etc. . If you do n't cover them they will dry out a bit , but overnight does n't do much harm ; I find if they 're tightly covered , whether in a glass bowl with plastic wrap or a sealed plastic storage container , they 're just as good the next day . The same goes for carrots and celery . I 'm sure there 's been a time when I prepped too much mirepoix ; but generally speaking , if you have a cut carrot or stalk of celery in the fridge , it does n't suffer too much overnight . More than a day and it starts to dry out ; the cut surface of the carrot will start to look like the end near the tops , and possibly split . The celery dries out more quickly , as it 's got higher water content and more fragile structure to begin with ; more than a day and it 'll lose its color , eventually turning limp and yellow , starting from the cut end . For the veggies , the way to keep them freshest is with a tight seal and as little air as possible . You could put them in a zipper bag and squeeze out any extra air but I think a reasonably-sized glass bowl , covered tightly with plastic wrap and placed in the fridge , is good enough for 12-24 hours . If you do n't have room in the fridge , you 'll probably still be okay , and they may even be less prone to drying out ( the air in your fridge is very low-humidity ; sometimes you have a special compartment for which the humidity can be adjusted , for fruits and vegetables ) . I have less experience prepping meat ahead of time , unless I 'm brining or marinading it ; in those situations , the meat 's covered by a liquid that contains preservatives ( salt , acid ) that help prevent it from spoiling , and it 's always refrigerated . Keeping it cool and minimizing the contact with air or contaminants is the main thing . If you only have enough room in the fridge to store some of your prepped ingredients , use it for the meat . In this case I 'd say a zipper bag with the air squeezed out is the clear way to go ; meat is malleable and you 'll be able to get nearly all of the air out , which means it 'll store almost as well as it did before you chopped it into pieces . The thing to remember about ground , chopped or cubed meat is that anything that contaminated the outside surface of the original cut is now mixed evenly throughout . This is why it 's generally safer to order a steak rare than it is to order a hamburger rare ; the center of the steak has n't been exposed to as much of its environment as the center of the burger , during handling and storage . So even if you refrigerate your prepped meat in a sealed container with the air evacuated , effectively storing it just as well as when it was in the original packaging and in one piece , I would n't expect it to keep the same effective " use by " date because it 's been disturbed and mixed and exposed to the environment of your prep area . You 're better off doing this with a cut that you purchased recently , which has n't been refrozen and is n't nearing expiration .
end question
start question
Opaque green tea , what is that ?
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
Please see <URL> which gives the very strict FDA guidelines for iced tea as : Iced tea sould be brewed at 195 F for 3-5 minutes . Iced tea should be stored for no longer than 8 hours . The tea brewer , storage dispenser , and faucet should be cleaned daily . while pointing out that " Tea is a beverage with little history of disease transmission . " Applying some common sense , assuming that you : Keep all of your tea equipment " impeccably clean " as Julia Child used to say Do not leave it very long at room temperature Refrigerate it thereafter given that tea does not have a huge number of nutrients to encourage pathogen growth , the risk should be minimal , although non-zero . You must assess your own tolerance for risk , but this is not an activity that is inherently highly dangerous . Finally , please note that modern refrigerators perform very well , and there is minimal heating of the other foods , even if you put a fairly large volume of tea in the refrigerator to cool . See : <URL>
There are many cultivars of rhubarb , just like there are for most other vegetables . Surprisingly , it seems some cultivars with the best flavor have less of the prized pink color . The color of any particular rhubarb stalk will depend on both the cultivar , and how it was grown . You should treat it the same way , regardless of the color . So yes , green rhubarb is safe to eat , with the same caveats as apply to any rhubarb . Especially , do n't eat the leaves . In On Food and Cooking ( 2004 edition ) , Harold McGee indicates that rhubarb tends to be about 1.5-2 .0 % acid by weight ( mostly oxalic acid ) , which makes it quite tart . This is an inherent aspect of the vegetable . The only way you really will reduce it is to use proportionately less of it in your recipe , by either reducing the absolute quantity of rhubarb , or increasing the quantity of other ingredients . In pies and coblers , this is usually done by combining the the rhubarb with another fruit like strawberries , as well as a great deal of sugar . Oxalic acid is soluble in water at about 14 grams / 100 mL , and even more soluble in ethanol at about 24 g / 100 mL , <URL> . This means that anything you infuse into vodka is likely to be extremely tart , perhaps unpleasantly so . You will want to carefully control steeping times and or ratios . While I have never tried this , I would imagine the tartness would overwhelm whatever rhubarb flavor you might pick up . There might be a reason there are so few famous rhubarb cocktails . Still , there are a number of rhubarb cocktail recipes that you can find by googling " <URL> " . They tend to start with a cooked down puree of rhubarb , rather than an infusion , however , and it seems to often be used in the sour role .
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
It appears to be brown sugar instead of white sugar . So there will be some flavor difference from less refining ( e.g. , more molasses remaining ) You could pick up turbinado sugar at the grocery store , which will probably taste just about the same , for much less money . edit : I should also note that honey makes a good sweetener for tea as well , depending on the type of tea . You could use normal brown sugar as well . Maple sugar ( or syrup ) goes in some ... there are a lot of sweeteners you can use , and most of them you can get fairly cheaply at the grocery store so you can experiment . ( Except maple , I suppose , which is just expensive )
I have been told that cedar , white and yellow pine , and many other variaties are safe in normal quantities and have high vitamin content . Some have supposed medicinal effect for headaches , such as cedar . My advice is to look up " tea " or " infusion " with each type of needle you want to try so you can avoid a poisonous concoction . As for white pine , I have made delicious tea for breakfast and for the canteen with it while camping and have survived so far . It goes quite well with wild mint .
Honey might go bad in two ways - one involves stuff growing on the surface of the honey , the other involves the honey itself fermenting . In both cases , the spoilage is connected to exceedingly poor storage - as other answers mentioned , honey is difficult to spoil ... but difficult is not the same thing as impossible , right :) Honey that ferments is usually linked to high water content - some honeys have a higher water content naturally , some might have water added at some point ( for example , to deter crystallization ) , some might have water leaked into a container and puddled on top or along the edges , and honey will absorb moisture from the air if left unsealed , and eventually reach a saturation where the water is no longer a limiting factor to yeasts . In any case , part of honey 's preservative qualities is the lack of available water and too high concentration of sugars inhibits most spoiling organisms - so when that extra water becomes available , honey turns from " never goes bad " to " potent food source for yeasts " , especially since as the yeast eat the sugars , they also lower the concentrations from something inhospitable to yeasts , to something that can support more yeast growth - so the fermentation will continue progressing . A small puddle of water can gradually lead to a whole container fermenting because the local dilution is much greater than the total water percentage , and once given a foothold the yeasts will keep eating the concentrations further down into yeast-inhabitable ranges . Some fermentation is more problematic than others - for example , mead probably originates from a spontaneous fermentation of honey that was enjoyable , on the other hand , different yeasts may give off bad odors and off flavors . If your honey <URL> to the point of spoilage , it will smell bad , look cloudy , and taste terrible . It will also foam ( carbon dioxide production ) , may separate , may bulge if the container permits , all that good stuff that warns if any foodstuff in fermenting . There is some stuff on that page about natural beneficial fermentation and typical crystallization patterns , but that is n't relevant to the question of spoilage The other way honey might go bad , is having some debris accumulate on the surface of honey ( cross contamination ) , that gives some mold or other bacteria enough food to get a foothold . Again , honey itself is a poor source of food if properly stored - not enough water , not enough available food to get a foothold - but add debris , crumbs , or whatever that can spoil more easily right on the surface , and that can give mold or whatever enough of a toehold to build a floating colony , as you envisioned . If there 's enough debris or moisture on the surface , the mold might start nibbling at the surface of the honey - which will start lowering the sugar content to something mold can find hospitable , much the same way fermentation can progress . You might be able to simply remove the colony or even the top layer to salvage the honey , if you are willing to risk it , since honey is known to be rather inhospitable to dangerous organisms . And if the honey is properly stored afterwards , any critters left should n't be able to re-colonize since they needed the crumbs to get a toehold in the first place - but only you can decide what you will risk .
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
Visible cloudiness is a result of suspended particles of about 1 micrometer ( micron ) or larger in size . Technically , just about any juice could in theory be filtered to remove those particles . But there are a couple things going on here . First , any filtering , clarification , etc. does cause some modification of flavor . Flavor compounds can be much smaller than 1 micron , but how they 're perceived can be modified by larger particles that contribute to mouthfeel and by their relative concentrations . If you 're measuring against the raw food , any change subtly modifies how it tastes . A raw tomato tastes slightly different from tomato juice , which in turn tastes different than <URL> . This can have an especially strong impact on subtle flavors like vegetable juices . Second , 1 micron is pretty small . The average pore size for your <URL> is about 10-15 microns , meaning you have to go a full order of magnitude smaller in order to remove visible cloudiness . Besides physical filtration , there are other ways to do this like <URL> , but those may also remove things like suspended oils or specific flavor compounds . That might be okay if you mostly care about sweetness and you can add artificial flavors back later ( as with mass-produced juice blends ) but could be a problem if you 're going for a very " natural " flavor . In general , more filtering means more processing and more associated flavor change . Third , you 're right that there is a marketing aspect here . Consumers have grown used to certain types of juice being clear ( like apple juice ) and others being totally opaque ( like orange juice ) . A certain subset might also actually prefer clouded juices , seeing them as less processed ( which they generally are ) and therefore more " healthy " , regardless of whether that 's actually true . In short , you could filter just about any liquid clear through some means or another , but it will taste different , and will likely affect how much people will pay you for the result .
After looking into this much longer than a sane person should have , I 've realized that the strength of the tea does n't depend so much on the quantity of tea . Controlling the strength of tea is normally done by controlling the steeping time . As stated by paul , the best way to dilute the strength of a tea is by resteeping it . The steeping time of a tea is most determined by the coarseness of the tea leaves . Similar to garlic , finer leaves make the taste a lot stronger , whereas large , coarse leaves will be weaker . The instructions on the bag often say what 's been tried and tested . Quite often , one tea bag can make quite a lot of tea , enough for a teapot . I 'd recommend going for two tea bags only if you 're planning to go for larger than a teapot , for tea suited to drinking by itself and with added ice , or with certain weaker teas . For black tea , the common steeping seems to be 2-3 minutes . There 's little harm in steeping too short , but steeping too long will create a harsh bitter taste ( though some people may actually want that ) . For cheap , harsh , unbranded teas , 3 minutes seems to be enough unless the leaves are finely chopped . Also , as bonus knowledge , steeping tea for 45 seconds then throwing away the water and resteeping it is a great way to decaffeinate tea . Do n't shake the tea bag or stir the drink while steeping it , because it will cause the harsh stuff to enter water faster , and black tea should be steeped at 98 degrees C.
From what I 've read , caffeine content can be variable even within varieties . There are possibly seasonal variations , variations in harvesting and processing technique , variations in the original plants ... Psychological effects ( e.g. what smells perky to you ) might be just as strong , and steeping for 10 minutes instead of 5 might make as much difference as any choice of variant . So take any answer with a grain of salt , and do n't be afraid to simply go with what seems to subjectively work best for you . That said , <URL> than other sencha teas , and I believe compared to other Japanese green teas as well . ( I found similar information elsewhere ; it 's not just wikipedia . )
This is another case for anthocyanins , the same compound that causes garlic and ginger to turn blue . Anthocyanins are pH sensitive , only appearing blue or purple when in the presence of acidity . As you cook the beans , the cells begin to rupture and lose water , which causes the acid around the anthocyanins to be diluted . As this happens , they lose their color allowing the green chlorophyll ( which was always present ) to show through . <URL>
I have done this before and it has worked for me . It should work , but if it does n't , I know what will . My aunt sold Jam for a while and when the pectin did n't work she reheated and added a small amount of gelatin , I helped her stir it in , and that was the final fix for her bad mix .
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
Alright . I did it . I took photos , but it might be only later before I can upload them . The Equipment . Small macchinetta , enough for two small tea glasses . The Process . I put about half the height of the holding chamber . In retrospect , I could have gone even 2/3rd of the height . Edit : I just opened up the pot , to clean it up , it seems that my amount was right on the money . After the second pot the leaves expanded even more . I think that a third pot could have been made with them as well . End edit . I poured water to the appropriate height ( or a bit less ) , and put it on the stove on a low heat until there was some noise that indicated that more or less the tea is ready . The first serving was weak . But that was expected , my dad remarked that it 's normal for the first washing to be weak . So we did a second run . The result was pretty good . It would have been better if I padded up the tea leaves , but it was pretty nice . The Consequences . I would n't recommend this method over pouring hot water through the tea leaves ( not steeping ) . But the experiment was fun ! Thanks for the two answerers that reassured me that this is doable .
end question
start question
Is it really necessary to wash a skillet that will be heated up again soon ?
Seems almost every question about bacteria seems to bring about both the bacteriophobes and the cavalier . In this case , the cavalier are probably closer to being right , but I 'll try to present the facts so that you can decide for yourself . The most common microbe groups responsible for household food poisoning are : Salmonella , found in poultry , <URL> the <URL> . CDT can be denatured ( technically , " heat-labile " ) but is one of the most resistant toxins , taking <URL> to destroy . This type of bacteria is n't normally associated with eggs , but since chicken eggs and other poultry products may be handled in the same area , it 's not unthinkable that the shells could become contaminated - and depending on how you handle the eggs , so could the frying pan . E.Coli is normally associated with beef but is also <URL> . It 's improbable , but not impossible for it to be <URL> as well . This is a bit of a weird one because <URL> , but not in the yolk itself or the frying pan . The strains of e.coli associated with food poisoning encode <URL> ( SLT ) and also <URL> , the latter of which are often heat stable . I 'm not sure about SLT , but the STs can <URL> . <URL> ( causing Campylobacteriosis ) produces certain enterotoxins and <URL> . As above , these tend to be heat-resistant . <URL> is responsible for for botulism and is ubiquitous . The spores are incredibly difficult to kill but they are also only harmful to infants and the immunodepressed . More importantly , the bacteria are killed by heating to 85 ° C for 5 minutes and are also anaerobic - meaning they can only grow when they are not exposed to air . In other words , these may be present , but wo n't grow and produce toxins on a reasonably clean pan . <URL> is one of the most common sources of food poisoning , and I believe is actually what drives a lot of the specific food safety/food inspection rules . The spores are very heat resistant ( can survive boiling for a full hour ) , and even though it is anaerobic , <URL> . It can grow on a pan - just more slowly than it would grow in an enclosed container or in raw/fresh food . <URL> causes staph infections but also produces heat-resistant enterotoxins . It does n't generally come from food , but more than 20 % of humans are carriers , and also many pets ( cats and dogs ) , so it is very likely in your household somewhere and can easily get on your frying pan and multiply on leftover food bits . <URL> is less common but very resilient ( they 're known for " fried rice syndrome " because they can survive steaming ) and afterward produce spores and heat-resistant enterotoxins . Important to note that many strains of this are harmless - but not all . <URL> causes ( as you may have guessed ) cholera symptoms which come from CTX and TCP toxins . Both of these are heat-labile although I was n't able to find a time/temperature data point . Chances are , you have at least one these friends in your kitchen . Chances are , you have several . The question is , did enough of them manage to get onto your frying pan after your last meal to produce dangerous levels of toxins ? Probably not . It 's really very unlikely . But it is possible , and you 're taking a chance if you do n't wash your dishes . In fact , it 's probably more dangerous with eggs , because typically you 'd cook eggs only up to a temperature of around 70 ° C , at most ( 63 ° is the temperature at which they set ) . So day after day you 're bringing all those lovely bacteria right into the <URL> for several minutes and not staying above it for very long at all ! Doing this one time ... really not a big deal . Bacteria do n't get to multiply much in the 5 minutes ( or less ) it takes to fry an egg , and most eggs are n't even contaminated to begin with , although <URL> . But doing this several times , day after day - you 're increasing your risk each day because the pan may never get hot enough , long enough , to kill all of the new bacteria from the day before . I would strongly recommend that you wash your pans after use . You do n't need to use soap if they 're cast-iron ; a good scrub with salt and hot water is fine . But please - especially if you 're going to be cooking for guests - do n't just leave the dirty pans sitting there and use them again the next day without washing them first . It 's not safe . P.S. I 'd like to draw attention to the fact that of all of the items in the list above , botulism , despite having some of the worst symptoms , is generally the least of your worries . Both the bacteria and the toxin are easy to kill , and the spores are harmless to healthy adults . So if you hear people on this site or any site talk about food safety entirely in terms of botulism and the temperatures required to kill/inactivate the bacteria/toxin , ignore them , because they have n't done their homework .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Bread is mostly flour and water . Flour comprises a small amount of protein ( gluten , which is responsible for the bread 's elasticity or chewiness ) and a large amount of starch ( specifically two molecules called amylose and amylopectin ) . The process involved in bread baking - in massively oversimplified terms - accomplishes two things : Development of additional gluten ; and <URL> . The latter - starch gelatinization - is the important part in the context of this question . In order for the starch to gelatinize , it needs to be completely dissolved in water and then heated , which breaks up its original crystalline structure . This process can not be reversed ... except , it sort of can . Gelatinized starch undergoes another process called <URL> . At lower temperatures , these starch molecules will actually start to realign themselves back into their original crystalline structure or something similar , and during the process they will force out water . That is why refrigerated bread often appears to have a soggy exterior , and frozen bread may develop a layer of frost on the top . This process does n't happen on a large scale , but it is enough to make the bread go stale . But remember that bread is mostly water . When you heat it again , as in the microwave , you are significantly improving the solubility of these reformed crystalline molecules , which causes them to dissolve again . Essentially you are re-hydrating the dehydrated ( stale ) bread with its own water . As you 've noticed , the taste is n't great . You ca n't change the fact that the bread has lost water , and a non-trivial amount of great protein and other flavour in the process . The reheated bread is kind of limp and soggy and fragile because the protein ( gluten ) is what was holding it together . But it 's softer . If you 've got very stale bread , another trick you can use is to wrap it in a cloth dampened with hot water for a few minutes , or use a paper towel and microwave the whole thing for a short time . That will do a lot more to hydrate the retrograded starches instead of relying on whatever water is left in the super stale bread .
MSG has a flavor itself ; it tastes of " umami " , the savory , meaty flavor . This is because it 's made of <URL> ( or glutamate ) , with a little sodium ( less than salt ) . Glutamates are the compounds responsible for the basic umami taste , and they are found in high concentrations in kelp , cheeses , soy sauce , and oyster sauce . To the best of my knowledge , it 's not like salt , which is said to enhance existing flavors ; this would be more like cooking broccoli in bacon grease to impart a bacony flavor to the broccoli . Therefore , it depends heavily on the existing flavor profile of the food in question and the taste preferences of the person involved . If the person likes broccoli dunked in soy sauce , it might be worth a try .
There are a few aspects to consider , but will always boil down to " you have to ask the individual " . Making a piece of cookware " safe " for a given person involves two components : Removing the contaminant in question in a manner that will prevent accidental ingestion of said contaminant . Making the item seem un-contaminated . At first glance this is similar to the first part , but has less to do with the physical molecules , and more to do with people 's perception of cleanliness , as seen through their cultural lens . If a toothbrush falls on the bathroom floor , many people will throw it away because of the persistant sensation of uncleanliness , even if a dishwasher cycle would be more than enough to satisfy point 1 . " Is it clean ? " is as much about physics as it is about perception and intent . For vegans and vegetarians , there are no guidelines of any kind . Individuals who are vegan or vegetarian for primarily environmental or health reasons will probably be satisfied with any simple cleaning to meet condition 1 , and are probably unconcerned with item 2 , as it applies to meat . Vegans and vegetarians who are primarily motivated by ethics will be more impacted by item 2 , and may prefer not to eat off the pan . While some may be satisfied by various " rituals " , there is no standard for such rituals . For people who keep Kosher , some sects of Judaism allow for " kashering " , which is the process of making something previously un-Kosher into something Kosher . Kashering is partially about item 1 , but is primarily about item 2 - in some cases the cleaning is highly ritualized . Note that while there are some common themes to kashering , different sects will see the acts very differently , and may or may not " allow " certain methods for their followers . For some appliances the process is fairly easy - a stainless steel sink can be Kashered with boiling water . Porcelain is seen as porous , and in many cases can not be kashered ( exceptions can be made for valuable old items , but they must remain unused for over a year ) . Ovens and oven-safe cooking items can be put through a self-cleaning cycle ( around 800F ) , and must be thoroughly cleaned of all debris . Cast iron pans and other fry pans must have their entire seasoned coating removed , abrasively and/or through extremely high heat . The bare pan may then be re-seasoned in a proper way . Many consider that to be too extreme to be worth the time , and simple replacement of the cast iron cookware is advised . Some examples of Kashering processes , though various sub-communities will see these items differently : <URL> <URL> Ultimately , everyone will fall into a different place on the Item 1/Item 2 scale , and their habits or religion alone may not allow you to easily predict their reaction . In some cases , Jews determine that being an ungrateful guest is a greater sin than eating from a non-Kosher pan . Some vegans may find the pan forever unclean , but many will also take a more practical attitude when eating with friends than they would with their own cookware . The best you can do is to take a good guess at whether someone is an Item 1 or and Item 2 prioritizer , and act accordingly . People who highly prioritize Item 2 will probably never be OK with your cast iron pan . People who prioritize Item 1 will probably be satisfied with any solid cleaning such as a heavy salt scrub with very hot water , and a re-oiled surface with an acceptable variety of oil . In a world where wider groups of cultures are finding themselves in the same place , and individuals are thinking more about their own diets and making a broader range of food choices , it is becoming more acceptable to just ask . You should be able to ask someone , " Would you mind if this pan had been used to prepare meat in the past ? " and not have them be offended , or yourself be offended at their answer ( if they say " yes , I do mind " ) . I have so many friends with different dietary choices and traditions that I 'm used to asking in dinner invites , " What is everyone 's dietary situation right now ? " No one is offended by the question , and their honest answers make it easy ( and fun ) to put together a meal that everyone will enjoy .
I do n't think you will hurt the pan , cast iron skillets can take a lot of heat . I think the biggest risk is that you are building a kind of dangerous tower . If you were to somehow knock it over you could hurt yourself badly .
<URL> has very good explanations about it . Let me sum of it up : The geometry of the wok is very important : better use of the surface area ability to shallow fry big items and deep fry small items with small amounts of oil . intense heat for low amount of fuel The temperature is also very important : caramelization ( or <URL> ) carbon steel , cast iron , stainless steel and others have different properties in terms of heat capacity and heat conduction .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
The big missing thing in your description ( fat , salt , smoke ) is umami . You can see this in bacon-flavored products . For example , <URL> ( click on a " nutritional info " link ) contains monosodium glutamate . So if you want to make something bacon-flavored , short of using bacon ( and possibly draining away a lot of fat ) , you 're generally going to be looking for source of umami ; see <URL> or <URL> . Also , bacon is definitely not acidic , and perhaps slightly sweet . This means , for example , tomatoes are probably not a good way to get the umami , and that whatever you do , you might try adding a tiny touch of sugar to bring out the flavor a little more . Things like shitake mushrooms and nori seem like better flavor matches . ( If you 've had <URL> this should n't be too surprising . )
Half fill it with water , then put in on the stove top over a medium heat . Work the burnt-on bits with a wooden spoon or spatula as the water starts to boil . You should be able to soften it up and be able to get it off then .
Actually , I think " the Internet " is wrong on this one , assuming that we are talking about proper caramel sauce . In most of candy making , you are very careful of crystalization . You are working with a supersaturated sugar solution , and it is looking for the slightest excuse to precipitate . Stirring will clump the sugar out of the solution into crystals . Some candy types need to be perfectly smooth , while others ( like fudge ) get their characteristic texture from careful management of crystal size . You should n't be stirring there at all . But once you have reached caramelization , you can stir . What you have in the pan is no longer a supersaturated sugar solution , but caramelization products mixed in a less-concentrated sugar solution . In other words , you have caramel , which is a substance quite different from sugar syrup . And it does not clump into crystals . It is amorphous in its structure , not a crystal , and it 's actually got some viscosity ( if you leave a clump a solid caramel around for years , it will flow a few centimeters ) . And you are not just dealing with pure caramel , but with caramel sauce , which also has lots of liquid added in the form of cream . So much liquid would have also prevented the sugar syrup from crystalizing if it had been added earlier . So , to summarize , you should n't stir a sugar solution during candy making , but you can stir both caramel and caramel sauce . It seems that somebody learned the rule about hot sugar solutions and decided that it applies in all kinds of candy making , without exceptions . But in fact , it does n't apply to caramel sauce .
The reason to par-bake your pie shell is because it would not cook through in the same time that the filling does . So it depends on what type of filling you are going to use . For example , if you are using a traditional short crust with a cream ( custard ) filling , the custard will probably cook faster than the crust would , so you would want to par-bake the shell . On the other hand , for an apple pie with a deep layer of fruit , by the time the fruit is cooked through , the crust usually is too , so par baking is not required . In your specific example , you have not said what the filling is , that you are precooking . However , if it is essentially fully cooked , you could blind-bake your shells then just put them together to heat through for service . You would need to share more details to get more specific advise .
There is n't a way to predict this . Non stick pans are produced in different quality and can be anywhere from " water pearls off the surface " to " as bad as enamel " . And all of them lose their non stick properties over time , at wildly different rates depending on quality and usage patterns . If you want to know it for your case , you 'll have to try it . Worst case , you 'll have to thoroughly clean a pan from clingy residue . If it burns onto a white ceramic coating , it can also leave a permanent discoloration , but this is a purely cosmetic problem . Update : You can certainly save your meat even if it starts to stick . Use Joe 's method from his comment , or simply stir it constantly with a flat edged spatula ( I do n't know which method is better ) . If it is patties , loosen them again and again using a spatula , maybe turning them often .
Unless you freeze them yourself and do n't wash them first , no , you should not need to wash commercially processed frozen vegetables . Part of the process for freezing includes cleaning/trimming preparing the vegetables . Washing is unnecessary . Info <URL> : The actual process of freezing a food item varies somewhat depending on what is to be frozen . Peas are the most common frozen vegetable , having virtually replaced fresh peas in the American supermarket . The pea process is typical for many vegetables . A typical process for a frozen entrée follows . Picking and washing 2 The peas may be picked by hand or automatically . Then , a machine called a viner removes them from their shells . If the processing plant is adjacent to the fields , the peas are carted there . If truck transport is necessary , they are cooled with ice water and then packed in ice for transport . At the plant , the peas are dumped into beds and sprayed with water to remove dust and dirt .
I 'd look towards a dutch oven and cake-like items : upside-down cakes cobblers / crisps / grunts / bettys / slumps / etc. . In all of these , the fruit on the bottom helps to protect from the bottom of the cake-like-item cooking too quickly . You can either cook directly in the dutch oven , or drop another pan inside the dutch oven to speed on cleaning if you 're going to be cooking a few of 'em . You 'll also want to look for dutch ovens that are made for baking -- they have a lip on the lid , so you can put coals on top and pull the lid without the ash falling into what you 're cooking .
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
It is n't necessary to even thaw bones before tossing them in the water , so long as you 're cooking long enough . With that said , to roast first and then toss in the stock , the goal is to get some browning going ( I 'm assuming your recipe says to roast at a relatively high temp like 400 ) to add some flavor , much like browning the meat at the bottom of a pot for a stew . Tossing them in the oven at 400 degrees for about 30-45 minutes will brown them for you and you 're not too worried about getting the insides cooked ( the core reason to why people do n't try to roast frozen meat ) . Stocks in general is as far from an exact thing as any recipe can go . There was this interesting article talking about all the differences in schools ... <URL> So in conclusion ... it is n't necessary . If you 're a stickler for recipes or you 're trying to duplicate something as close as you can , thaw the bones .
The USDA does regulate a notion of " organic " in the US . Here 's their <URL> . Many of the links there are quite relevant . The best one for you is probably the <URL> , though many others would be informative for you . The <URL> contains more details about labeling restrictions , and the <URL> page contains further links including the actual regulations . In terms of labeling , as described in the linked page on labeling , yes , the USDA regulates the usage of the USDA organic seal : Look at the label . If you see the USDA organic seal , the product is certified organic and has 95 percent or more organic content . For multi-ingredient products such as bread or soup , if the label claims that it is made with specified organic ingredients , you can be confident that those specific ingredients have been certified organic . Unfortunately many other people do have their own notions of what organic means , and if you see the term used without the seal , then you ca n't really tell what standards it was held to .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
end question
start question
How to carbonate a drink ?
Wilds of Russia ? If you have dry ice , just adding pieces of it ( chopped small ) to your drink will work to some extent . Here 's a vid : <URL> Be aware that not all dry ice is food grade . If no dry ice , you can get by with sodium bicarbonate ( baking soda ) and vinegar ( acetic acid ) , or some other acid . Just mix the two chemicals , and bubble the resulting gas through your drink . Here 's an Instructable , w video : <URL> . It 'd be easy to improve on the kid 's method , for example by adding a <URL> , but the general principles are sound . Either method will cause some change in your liquid 's taste , as you 're lowering the pH by generating carbonic acid , but that 's true of any carbonation scheme .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
This is a little hard to do without making an epic mess . First , lay out a big piece of parchment or wax paper to catch the sprinkles that you are about to throw everywhere . Place your cake on it 's platter over the parchment paper and tilt it so that you can apply sprinkles to the uppermost side . Do n't tilt it so far that it slides off ! Apply the sprinkles with your free hand , pressing them gently into the frosting ( some suggest wearing a glove , I do n't ) . Turn , and repeat . Periodically collect all your sprinkles from the parchment paper .
You ask about coating , but it is actually not very important . There are other criteria with much higher priority when you are making caramel or other types of candy . The important thing about pan when making caramel is even heating . Especially when making your caramel dry , you can not afford hot spots , because you can not stir . But if you are taking the candy into the later caramel stages , even heating becomes important for syrup-started candy too . You need a responsive pan if you are making caramel . Sadly , the most evenly heating pans are also the least responsive and vice versa . I would never make caramel on a resistive stove in iron , but I use a small enamelled Dutch oven for caramel on my induction plate . A good sandwiched steel with an aluminum core should offer a decent tradeoff between evenness and responsiveness on most stove types . You also need the correct size pan . If your caramel is less than 1 cm deep , it is very hard to handle without burning it . If it is deeper than 5 cm , there is too much of a heat gradient in the depth . Choose the pan diameter such that your caramel depth will be between 1 and 5 cm roughly . If you are going to add any kind of liquid to the caramel ( or butter ) , you 'll experience lots of foam . You need a deep walled vessel to catch this foam . Use a deep sauce pan or a small pot instead of a frying pan . You want 10 cm wall above the caramel level . Aside from a seasoned cast iron pan , I have n't experienced a coating adsorbing flavors . PTFE , ceramic , enamel , anodized alu or no coating - none of them matters . Use whatever you have handy . For cleaning , follow Elendil 's advice for dissolving the smears in hot water .
Mostly it comes down to practice . However there are some tips and tools that can make it a lot easier . If you have a cake stand ( the kind that spins ) then you set the cake on the stand and slowly turn it with one hand while cutting forward and back with the other ( trying to keep the cutting hand as level as possible ) . Another option is to buy a cake leveler <URL> - if you make a lot of cakes it can be very handy .
I use an instant-read thermometer . It 's by far the simplest method . I use the <URL> . As Darin states , you 're shooting for 165 ℉ for turkey . My old Taylor died a few weeks ago . After reading rave reviews from Cooks Illustrated , and Alton Brown 's recommendation , I splurged and got a <URL> . It is amazing !
I have halved cake recipes before without issue . The most complicated thing to worry about is halving an odd number of eggs , but <URL> addresses that . The finished product was indistinguishable from the full recipe . Edit One thing to note . In your specific case , because it 's a two-layer cake , halving is simple because you 're only cooking a single layer . Halving other cakes , such as a pound cake , or a bundt cake involves adjustments to the cooking time . A halved cake will cook much quicker , and could possibly need a lower temperature as well as a decreased cooking time .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
To taste is one of those awesome cooking terms that trips people up all the time . To taste does not mean to what tastes good to you , although you can use that as a determination and your dish should still come out fine for most people . To taste means that you add salt ( or whatever ) while tasting the dish and you slowly add until the seasoning tastes perfect . To properly do this you are going to have to train your palate , but luckily it not that hard to do . As a matter of fact , we have a pretty good way to learn it right <URL> The end result you are trying to achieve is the point where food tastes the most like it 's self with out adding to much , this the small increments . The important part to remember is that " to taste " is where your food lives . It 's the thing that is unique to you and a part of what makes every dish you make an expression .
You can certainly cut meat on these , I have a large end-grain cutting board that is too large to wash conveniently in my sink . There are a number of methods to clean them : Soap and Water Soap and hot water are best for regular cleaning . Just get a rag or brush and scrub it . Dish soap is just fine for this use . Make sure to rinse and dry it thoroughly . Vinegar If you do n't mind the smell you can use undiluted white vinegar to clean and sanitize your surface . If you keep some in a spray bottle you can just spray it down and wipe it with a paper towel . If you have a big oily mess , I 'd suggest starting with the soap &amp; water method , and finishing up with vinegar . Vinegar is apparently <URL> at killing microbes , surprisingly more effective than harsher quaternary ammonium solutions . Bleach A little goes a long way with this . You only need a teaspoon or two for a quart of water . Just spray it down thoroughly , let stand 5 minutes . Finish with rinsing and drying . Like vinegar this is best as a followup to soap &amp; water for a really messy board . Lemon If you have strong garlic , onion , fish , or other smells in your butcher block you can cut a lemon in half and rub the board down with the halves . Lemon juice is a weak antiseptic , so this should be used primarily for odor control and not as a sanitization substitute . Note that regular cleaning also requires regular seasoning of your block surface . You should oil your board/block once a week , or more with frequent use . See also : <URL>
Hot peppers wo n't work with brine , as brine is water-based and capsaicin ( the pepper hotness ) is not soluble in water . You would need an oil-based marinade to pass the ' heat ' .
First of all , cooking times are always only guidelines . The rule is always , " Cook it until it 's done " . The <URL> suggests a finished internal temperature of 165 F ( 74 C ) . USDA recommends cooking whole duck or goose to a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F as measured using a food thermometer . Check the internal temperature in the innermost part of the thigh and wing and the thickest part of the breast . When cooking pieces , the breast , drumsticks , thighs , and wings should be cooked until they reach a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F. So , the answer to your question is that you cook it until enough time has past that the goose is 165 F. . . With the caveat that your target temperature may be lower than the USDA recommendations because we all love eating rare meat . From an <URL> of The Splendid Table , Hank Shaw mentions his recommended target temperatures for different parts of a goose : HS : The first thing you need to know is the sweet spot of cooking a goose breast is somewhere around 135 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit internal temperature . LRK : It 's pink ? HS : It 's pink , yes -- medium-rare to medium . The sweet spot for the legs is somewhere around 175 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit , give or take , they 're pretty forgiving . That 's a huge spread in temperature . He achieves this temperature difference by removing the breasts half-way through cooking and returning the rest of the bird to the oven until the higher temperature is reached . Note , the temperature of the breasts is below the recommended temperature , so there is likely some amount of risk with eating it this cool . The entire method is explained in the link and it 's pretty fascinating . While he gives estimates of time ( 45 minutes for breasts plus 45 minutes more for the remainder ) which are quite a bit lower than your two recipes despite being for a lower oven temperature ( 325 F ) and a larger bird 12-16 lbs , it 's possibly due to the target temperature being so low for the breasts and , once they 're removed , the remainder of the bird would probably cook more quickly . To address the methods you 're looking at , I 'm going to convert the recipes to be in the same units : Ramsay - 450 F for 10 minutes followed by 9/15 min/lb at 375 F Food Network - 450 F preheat then 20-25 min/lb at 350 . Now , let 's look at your two recipes ... Ramsay : Stuff the zested fruit and the herb sprigs inside the bird and set aside for at least 15 mins . Can be done up to a day ahead and kept refrigerated . Food Network : Rub inside cavity with lemon juice . Place apple , potato , orange and celery inside the body cavity . Truss the bird like a turkey . I 'm going to guess that the apple , potato , orange and celery combo may be more dense than seven lemons/limes . If it is , it 's probably going to retard the cooking time a bit . This may explain some of your difference in cooking times , so you should keep that in mind . I do n't know how you 're planning to prepare your bird but the filling may change the cooking time . Also , that big 450 F burst for 10 minutes is a big difference over simply raising the oven to that temp and immediately lowering it . When you open the oven , a lot of the air will leave , causing the air temp to drop a bit . If you immediately lower the temperature , it will drop to 350 F pretty quickly . With Ramsay 's method you 're actively cooking the bird for 10 minutes at 450 F . This means that the oven will bring itself back up to 450 F and stay there for a few minutes before you drop the temperature to 375 F and it will take longer for the oven temperature to drop ( assuming you have a well-insulated oven ) . The goose will start warming up more quickly with this method , which is reflected in the shorter cooking time . Plus , when you 're talking about 2 hours or more , a 25 F temperature difference does change the cooking time . So , in the end , I think the methods are quite different but I think that ( if you follow the actual method including the filling ) both will give acceptable results ... but that does n't matter because you should at least <URL> a <URL> that tells you what temperature to aim for rather than what time to cook for and refer to those recipes ' internal temperature recommendations and use your meat thermometer to know when you 've reached them .
I generally clear my clogged misters / spray nozzles by unscrewing the spray part from the bottle and then submerging the uptake tube in very hot ( but certainly not boiling ! ) water and then pumping as long as it takes to clear the clog out and start spraying a mist / spray pattern again . The hot water should be enough to break up the clogs , and the pump action should force the clog out .
As Catohound already mentioned , it 's a symptom of using a high speed blender . You may find <URL> technique useful . Tcrn the blender to its lowest setting and then slowly ramp it up until the top of the liquid just starts to circulate ( usually around speed 4 or 5 on a Vitamix ) . As you run it at this low speed , you will see bubbles coming out in the center . My wife and I do this with our Vitamix and it generally gives good results .
Wilds of Russia ? If you have dry ice , just adding pieces of it ( chopped small ) to your drink will work to some extent . Here 's a vid : <URL> Be aware that not all dry ice is food grade . If no dry ice , you can get by with sodium bicarbonate ( baking soda ) and vinegar ( acetic acid ) , or some other acid . Just mix the two chemicals , and bubble the resulting gas through your drink . Here 's an Instructable , w video : <URL> . It 'd be easy to improve on the kid 's method , for example by adding a <URL> , but the general principles are sound . Either method will cause some change in your liquid 's taste , as you 're lowering the pH by generating carbonic acid , but that 's true of any carbonation scheme .
Keep in mind that whipping cream or egg whites by hand may take longer than you expect . That said , there is a proper way to whisk egg whites , and it is quite likely that taking breaks due to your fatigue is interfering . See <URL> for detailed instructions . In particular , see below for an excerpt on one possible problem ( although there are numerous things that can potentially go wrong ) . We will split the whisking of egg whites into two parts . The first covers the disintegration of the mucous mass up to the point when it becomes a grayish , roundish mass . This part requires mixing with an easy and rhythmic effort . The second part covers the conversion of the round , gray mass into a smooth , light , firm , stunningly white batter . This second part , unlike the first , requires a very vigorous and accelerated effort . During both these periods , the whisking , even though different in strength and speed , must not be interrupted . Under no circumstances should you stop once you have begun to whisk . Stopping causes the whites to disintegreate . Instead of rising and firming up more and more , their mass will remain semi-solid and will take on a blotchy , grainy look .
BTU means British Thermal Unit . So : lbs of water x temperature rise = BTUs required for one hour ( British units ) ( 1 lb of water x 1 degree Fahrenheit ) = 1 BTU for reaching temp in 1 hour ( approx ) Let 's do a simple calc : 1 ) Suppose a 30 % efficiency ( you are heating air and pot too ) 2 ) Four lbs water 3 ) 70 F as water initial temperature ( 212-70 = 142 to boil ) So : ( 4 lb water x 142 F ) * 3. ,33 ( eff ) = 1900 BTUs for reaching boil in one hour 17000/1900 = 9 ( your burner output / required output to boil in 1 hour ) 60 mins / 9 = 7 mins So you could expect bringing to boil your 4 lbs of water in 7 mins in a 17.000 BTU burner starting from 70 F . Normal pressure and altitude , of course . <URL> is a video of a 17.500 BTU burner working to compare with yours . Keep in mind that many approximations were done in this calc . No evaporation , medium to heavy pot , etc. .
The fourth option is the correct one . The problem is that if you start with oil in the mortar , the pestle will slip and you will not be able to properly mash the rest . What you usually do is : Wash the basil in cold water . Put the leaves on a tea towel and leave them to dry ( you can delicately pat them with another towel ) . You do n't want extra water in the pesto , so be sure the leaves are dry before starting . Traditional pesto is made with <URL> . Start with the garlic ( traditionally <URL> ) and a few grains of rock salt in the mortar . You would generally put 1-2 pips of garlic for ~ 50g basil leaves , but obviously that is up to your taste ( if you were to make Provencal pistou you would probably go for a higher garlic to basil ratio ) . I generally remove the inner part of the garlic ( the anima ) before mashing it . Now add the basil and mash them with a circular movement . You have to be quite delicate when doing this . You 'll see a green liquid forming at the bottom of the mortar . Now add pinenuts and/or the walnuts and finally the cheese . A mix of 36 months-aged Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino ( sardo or romano ) is perfect for pesto . Finally add the extra-virgin olive oil slowly , while mixing . Put in clean pots , let it rest for half an hour , then if necessary cover with some extra oil . Whether you do this in batches or all at once mainly depends on the size of the mortar and how much pesto you are making . If you are making a big amount or have a small mortar repeat the steps for every batch ( I would wash the mortar each time , as it will be oily . Remember to dry it throughly before restarting ) . Most informations taken from : <URL> ( in Italian )
Most likely you just need to turn up the heat a bit . Moving the rack higher might help too . It 's a little hard to say without actually measuring your oven , but that kind of thing can happen if your oven 's just a bit cooler than it claims to be . So it 'll take a little longer than the recipe says to bake , but the lower temperature means it wo n't brown as nicely . Turning up the heat will get more browning done by the time the center 's done .
end question
start question
Can coconut cream be transformed into coconut milk , or vice versa ?
Short answer : you can let coconut milk separate and skim it to get a little coconut cream , but ca n't convert coconut cream back to coconut milk . Diluting the cream just produces something runny and disgusting . Long answer : Coconut milk is made by grating coconut and running very hot water through it to extract oils and flavor , then straining out the coconut pieces . It is a mix of water soluble parts and fats , and can emulsify just like normal milk or thicken sauces similarly to milk cream . If you allow coconut milk to sit , the fatty part will rise to the top . This part is skimmed off to make coconut cream , which is much richer in fats . It cooks very differently because of the higher fat content , and does not emulsify or thicken well ; however it is quite delicious ! If you 're looking to substitute for coconut milk , but only have coconut cream , the best substitution will probably be a little coconut cream + a lot of heavy ( milk ) cream . Note : Some people refer to the liquid contained in fresh coconuts as coconut milk , but it is more accurately called coconut water . This confusion has ruined many a recipe !
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
Yes , you can freeze buttermilk . When thawed , the emulsion will break into solids and whey . This makes no difference for baked goods ; you can also use a blender to restore it to a smooth , thicker liquid if needed for applications like salad dressing . See also : <URL> . <URL>
I had to return and answer this myself . The tea towels broke first , and then the shirts ( even heavy cloth ones ) . They broke under the stress of squeezing the coconut milk out . Then I realized I had an immersion blender . The resulting milk after using the high setting , was smooth and delicious . A fool-proof method : Blend in normal blender , to make a gritty milk . Finish smooth with an immersion blender .
There are 2 ways of looking at it ; how long it will be safe to eat ( ie from food poisoning ) and how long it will still be appetizing and taste alright ( ie not gone rancid ) . As you 've taken it from the tin it wo n't get that tinny flavour but as time goes on may absorb other flavours from the fridge so make sure you keep it away from anything that is strongly smelling . Also as around 87 % of the coconut milk is fats it will soon go rancid , so keep that in mind , ( you 'll know when it does by giving it a quick sniff ) . In terms of food safety , if it 's UHT which most are , then it could probably last for a long time ( as long as UHT milk ) so about 2 1/2 weeks I 'd say . Otherwise if it 's not UHT then not as long . I would say about the same time as fresh milk so around a week as it contains sugars and fats and so is a very compelling proposition for any bacteria . Other sites discussing this : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Hope this helps !
For a substance to burn , it must first reach its ignition point . For it to keep burning , it must reach its fire point . The ignition point of a 40 % ABV liquid such as brandy is 26ºC / 79ºF , and the fire point is approximately 10ºC higher than that . What this means in practical terms is that you need to heat the alcohol a little first before you add it to the ice cream . The simplest way to do this is to put the alcohol in a ladle and heat it over the hob - it wo n't need much as 36ºC is not a great deal over room temperature . Then light it carefully with a long match , and pour it around your ice cream - if you 've got it warm enough it should keep burning until the alcohol is consumed .
Not only are " friendly " bacteria being cultured , those bacteria make an acidic environment which is hostile to " bad " bacteria . Myself , I make plain yogurt and mix things into it at the time of eating , but things mixed in from the start essentially become " yogurt-pickled " and should be fine for a reasonable period under refrigeration . A standard part of preparing to culture yogurt is a high-heat treatment ( scalding ) of the milk , both to kill off unwanted bacteria and to cause structural changes in the milk proteins that are beneficial to forming the yogurt curd .
First , you do n't specify if you mean cream of coconut , or coconut milk . I think coconut milk would be the thing to try here , as it has less fat . Second , if it works , it wo n't be bechamel any more . But this is a technical detail : if it is tasty to you , you should be able to use it as a substitution practically everywhere . Third , does it work ? I have n't tried it , but I would strongly assume that it will . Coconut milk has more fat than normal milk , but this is n't a terrible problem for roux-based sauces . Indeed , I have read recipes ( in reliable cookbooks ) which direct the cook to add melted butter to the roux before or after adding the liquid . Which means that the fat ratio in the sauce is n't too exact ; it is the ratio of flour to water which you have to keep straight . The one thing to pay attention to is that coconut fat melts around 34-35 ° C . So your coconut roux sauce will exhibit noticeable difference in thickness depending on the temperature . As long as you serve it warm , it will be a similar thickness to bechamel . If you let it go cold , it will probably thicken quite a bit . If you plan to serve it cold , adjust the flour amount accordingly .
Practically all dairy starts with full fat milk , this is all that comes out of a cow . The process of cheesemaking centers around separating the curds from the whey ( except for making true ricotta , which is made from whey ) . The fat stays with the curds . So the fat content of your cheese goes sharply up compared to the liquid you started with , because you are throwing out most of the water , as well as some proteins and carbohydrates , but keeping all the fat . There are cheeses which start with cream . In theory , they can also be said to be started from milk , because cream itself is made from milk . In practice , if you want to make them at home , you will start with store-bought cream . As far as I 'm aware , it is not possible to make mascarpone or cream cheese when starting from milk . If there is a way , it would require a recipe different from the one starting from cream . So , if you have a recipe which asks for cream , you should follow it with cream and not with milk . Else , even if you manage to get the correct fat percentage , the ratio of proteins to fat or water to fat wo n't be right . But if you just have the milk and want to make any fresh cheese , you can make one of the many fresh cheeses which are not started with cream . Tvorog , paneer and quark are all milk based fresh cheeses , and delicious in their own right .
Unfortunately I do n't agree with the given answers . I recently bought a $ 350 zojirushi rice cooker . According to the manual there is such a thing as " rinse-free " rice . There is even a function on the rice cooker for this setting . In addition , the rice cooker manual explains that the rice should be rinsed several times with cold water .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
Thanks rumtscho . I was n't sure if I should post as an answer or an edit . I 've edited to remove answer and place here . Update : I ended up making two brownies . One 8X8 pan with 6 bags of mint tea stirred into it . It gave off a very earthy ( and minty ) smell and has a very earthy/herby taste ( and minty too ) . I doubt I 'll make the mint ones again . The second one was a 9X13 pan with 2/3 of a bag of shredded coconut colored green . I put the coconut in a bowl and used gel food coloring . I do n't have a huge selection of colors , so I used green with a touch of brown . I could have used a little more brown so the green was n't so bright . I mixed it in the coconut and then mixed most of it into the batter . The remainder went on top and lightly swirled into the batter . The effect was really good and amazingly the color did n't seep into the brownies . When you bite into them , the coconut maintained its green color . I did n't have any white chocolate to try the green white chocolate idea , but maybe next time . :)
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
Refrigerated coconut-based milk substitutes like Silk Pure Coconut or So Delicious Coconut Milk have a stated lifespan of 7-10 days after opening . I 've had cartons last longer than that without any change in taste or smell , but if it started tasting bad or smelling funky I would toss it . Unfortunately , this type of coconut milk product does not reconstitute well after freezing .
Almond Milk for cow 's milk was a really common substitution in medieval recipes . A lot of medieval recipes used almond milk - almonds being a lot easier to store without spoiling and find reliably when a medieval cook needed some . Almond milk was a staple of the medieval kitchen . It was used in a wide variety of dishes as a substitute for milk or cream , especially on " fish days " , when the church placed restrictions on what foods could be eaten ( the most prominent of which were the days during lent ) . from <URL> In the Middle Ages , animal milk was , of course , not refrigerated , and fresh milk did not stay fresh for long . Most cooks simply did not use much milk as the short shelf-life of the product made it a difficult ingredient to depend upon ... Rather than animal milk , Medieval cooks turned to something they could depend upon , and that was the milky liquid produced by grinding almonds or walnuts . This liquid , high in natural fats , could be prepared fresh whenever needed in whatever quantities . It also could be made well ahead of time and stored with no danger of degeneration . Because of its high fat content , it , like animal milk , could be churned into butter , and because it was not animal milk , it could be used and consumed during Church designated meatless days . from <URL> Some dishes can not be made with this substitution , those that depend on the physical and chemical properties of milk - like cheese , or whipped cream . It would take a lot of processing and additives to make the almond milk mimic those products . However , both milks contain fats , proteins , and sugars in solution , and so behave similarly enough in the chemistry of cooking to make them easy substitutes . I will admit that while I cited medievalcookery.com and godecookery.com because the quotes were convenient , I posted my comment originally drawing from David Freedman and Elizabeth Cook 's " How to Milk an Almond , Stuff and Egg , and Armor a Turnip : A thousand years of recipes " which is very well researched and contains a number of period citations and recipes .
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
If your pastry cream can handle being stirred ( most do and as you will be including whipped cream anyway ) , you should be fine . Stirring will soften your pastry cream a bit , but not make it completely liquid . You can even add the vanilla to your cream , whip it together and need not worry about stirring well enough or uneven distribution of liquid in your pastry cream .
According to <URL> , cream cheese , opened should last about two weeks between 32 ' f and 40 ' f. For the cheese itself , unopened , they recommend to " Use within one week of the ' best when purchased by ' date " . Unfortunately , in this situation , you can not simply cut away the mold from the cheese since it is a mixed dish . When you factor in the fact that the cheese was not only unwrapped , but heated along with other components , and likely sat out for some time on the counter in addition to in the pan , with added protein ( the black beans especially ) , the math for how long cream cheese can last in your fridge shrinks and shrinks . Personally , I would follow the cooked meat guidelines to be on the safe side . This means that well-wrapped leftovers , quickly taken out of the danger zone range of temps ( <URL> ) , should last for 3-4 days after cooking .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
I think what your looking for is called poured sugar oil moulds ( rings ) that you want to use ant shape is okay then use 2 lbs sugar ,1 lb water , 6.55 ounces of glucose and food colouring if you want.make a syrup with the three and then boil until it reaches 260F add food colouring continue to boil until temp . reaches 330F plunge the pot into a cold water bath to stop the cooking.remove from water and let stand 2-3 minutes to thicken . Pour mixture into moulds until 1/4 inch thick . Once edges have setenough remove the ring . Use a little reheated sugar to attached pieces together like a glue.this can be used as a base for any center piece you want to create with other sugar pieces
end question
start question
Is it cost effective to make your own roast beef sandwich ?
You 've got a few things to consider -- cost of the ingredients shrinkage energy costs time costs wastage So , in our decision making tree , we have to consider the real costs of each option . Say for instance that whole roasts are on sale , so the cost of a roast is 1/2 the cost of buying the deli meat . The roast is going to lose weight as it cooks ... it 's just part of the cooking process . It could be anywhere from 10 to 25 % , depending on the cut of meat and how hot you cook it . Obviously , there will be other spices and such , but we 'll assume they 're mostly negligible . There will be the cost to power your oven ... and that 'd be a function of where you live , if it 's gas or electric ( or solar ) , etc ... and if you make too much , and ca n't eat it before it spoils , then there 's waste . ... but then we get to the most important part in my opinion -- time , and slicing . Even if we assume our time costs nothing ( and when you 're throwing something in the oven and leave it for a few hours , that part 's negligible ) . Our real time comes in slicing it -- and I do n't have a professional slicing machine , just a bunch of knives , so it 's going to take me quite a long time , and I 'm not going to get it as thin as the deli can . And in my opinion , it 's the shaving of the meat that matters ; there 's a big difference between large chunks of meat vs. thick slices vs. thinly shaved . ... So , in my opinion -- is it cost effective ? maybe a little bit , if you assume your time is free . Is it worth it ? Maybe if you want to spice it special , or make it lower salt , stay away from sulfides / sulfates , or do something else special ... but as you likely ca n't slice it the same , it 's more likely to come out as an inferior product . That 's not to say that I wo n't ever do it , but I doubt I 'd do it anytime soon , and it wo n't be because I think it 's a cost savings .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
I own one , and have tried it for both those uses , but with mediocre results compared to other techniques . For crème brûlée , I get more even caramelization by placing the individual custards under a broiler . The only benefit I could appreciate from using the torch was that it was quicker , and I could monitor the caramelization more easily . ( The broiler technique is the one recommended in <URL> for the perfect crème brûlée . ) For peppers , the torch dries out and blackens the skin without really cooking the interior . Again I have had better results in a broiler/hot oven , or on a grill . The torch is most definitely fun , but so far I have n't found it to be necessary ; I 'll be interested , however , if someone else has found the perfect use ( s ) for a culinary torch .
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
Given the source ( Michael Ruhlman ) and that it was linked by Seriouseats , I am willing to bet cash money that not only does it work exactly as stated , it will provide spectacular results .
I think it 's more about technique than what fat you use when you 're looking for crispy outsides ( I 'm sure there is at least one question here already that has the technique answers ) . About the only solid advice I would give is that you need to find a fat that tastes good to you , or is neutral if that 's your preference , and make sure the one you use wo n't burn at the temperature you 're using . Beyond that , it 's all about taste and technique . edit : I looked for questions that might have solid technique answers , but did n't find any . So I looked out on the greater web and found some advice from Cook 's Illustrated . <URL> It does n't have the recipe for free , but the advice is good : Parcook at a fast simmer , get a little rough with the parcooked potatoes to rough up the outside , choose the right potatoes ( they liked Yukon Golds ) .
I roast them " fresh " as I need them , but my method scales up easily . I use a gas grill and turn it to high . Set the whole peppers on the grill , and turn them when the skin is black on the hot side . When they 're black all over ( after maybe 2-3 minutes per side for all 4 sides of the typical ones in my local supermarket ) , I put them into a large disposable plastic container with a tight fitting lid and let them cool in it . The skin peels off quite easily , and they can be seeded and de-stemmed quite easily . If I were going to preserve them , I 'd probably chuck them into a plastic container or zip-top bag and freeze them .
Supermarket ' stew beef ' is notoriously unreliable . Its often just scraps of beef that the butcher or market ca n't sell otherwise . My stews were hit and miss for years while I tried to tweak cooking time and such . But then one day I watched a movie on rouxbe.com ( paywall , sorry ) and they talked about not using ' stew beef ' - its often too lean and does n't have the ' stuff ' to produce tender , but juicy bits . They strongly recommended cutting up your own from a chuck ... and they were so , so , so right . In short , cutting up your own chuck is by far the better route - if you 're looking for ' stew beef ' .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
Making maraschino cherries is a bit involved ... basically , you brine them and then flavor them . To keep them for a long time , you 'll also need to can them . <URL> a great recipe for making the cherries , and <URL> instructions for canning . The canning instructions are specifically for cherry topping , but you would use the same boiling-water canner process for maraschino cherries in their syrup . To pit the cherries , I 'd advise purchasing a cherry pitter ( yes , there 's actually a device for this ) if you 're going to be doing this very much .
I do n't see why not , it 's the same process Many commercial brewers make a barley and rye malt for beer ( < 10 % rye ) . A good brewers supply shop should have rye malt too Rye is around ~ 40 % carbohydrate , while barley is ~ 45 % carbohydrate , so rye is not as sweet , but has a more interesting taste ( IMHO ) The differences for making malt rye over malt barley , assuming you have hulled rye : Rye absorbs water faster , so steep for less time ( ~ 30 % less ) Do not let it go mushy or it will not germinate Rye is more fragile with no hull and a thin " skin " . So must be handled more carefully once steeped . If it is damaged it wont germinate Lower germination rate ( due to above ) , so less conversion , so less sugars and flavour Otherwise just follow the normal malt barley process , which is well documented
Since ovens cook by heat radiation , you want to expose as high a proportion of the surface area as possible , which is why most roasts are vaguely cubic or cylindrical in shape . Any part of the meat that 's pressed against the pan ( i.e. the bottom of the roast ) is n't going to get that nice brown crust . It 's also very important with slow-cooking methods that require you to put some liquid at the bottom of the vessel ; obviously you want as little of the meat as possible to be in the water , so that most of the work is done by steam . Tying ( or more accurately , trussing ) the meat is simply how you maintain the shape in the oven . If you do n't truss it , then you 'll not only end up with a very flat roast , you 'll also end up with uneven cooking , and only the top will be browned since there are no " sides " to speak of . It 's similar with chicken and other birds ; you truss the legs so that the oven has a chance to crisp them up on all sides , not just the top .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
I 've been a fan of brining for a while and NO , adding flavouring to the brine wo n't make much if any difference in relation to the brining itself , which makes a lot of difference . I have employed my most wishful thinking many times with brine , on the basis of the fact that pretty much every reference to it in recipes , on cooking shows , etc. , always seems to promote the idea that the flavour will diffuse in the brine and be absorbed by the meat . This is some kind of " look at the Emperor 's New Clothes " tradition .1 I 've gone to ridiculous extremes to test this , sometimes adding many ounces of e.g. , paprika or thyme to < 1 gallon of very salty ( 4 tbls/quart ) brine with a chicken overnight -- which is actually too much time , a few hours is plenty with that much salt . In some cases I 've gone overboard with the salty part , but despite all the piles of herbs , powders , an entire bottle of hot sauce , etc. , you at best get maybe a hint of something on the surface . In short , my opinion now is that while brining is awesome for pork and poultry -- salty and moist meat being far superior to dry and bland meat -- adding something to the brine and expecting it makes a difference is a complete waste of time and materials . As per one of my comments on the question , I 'd guess the issue here is that brining exploits osmosis . From <URL> : Brining makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , and by allowing the cells to hold on to the water while they are cooked , via the process of denaturation . The brine surrounding the cells has a higher concentration of salt than the fluid within the cells , but the cell fluid has a higher concentration of other solutes . This leads salt ions to diffuse into the cell , whilst the solutes in the cells can not diffuse through the cell membranes into the brine . The increased salinity of the cell fluid causes the cell to absorb water from the brine via osmosis . The salt introduced into the cell also denatures its proteins . The proteins coagulate , forming a matrix that traps water molecules and holds them during cooking . This prevents the meat from dehydrating . So the idea is that the meat absorbs salt ions , which then causes it to absorb more water . This is through the cell walls , and I do not think large particles such as the stuff we might associate with " flavour " would be included . Of course , some of the brine may be drawn into the meat between the ( large congregations ) of cells , but this is probably not a significant volume . 1 . Some of these recipes call for really paltry amounts of flavoring too , an inadvertent testament to how nice the Emperor must look naked ( " Umm -- I can so taste the rosemary from the brine ! " . Hogwash . ) . They also often involve paltry amounts of time ( " brine for 20 minutes " ) , I suppose because if you can pretend to taste rosemary you can also pretend to taste salt and appreciate moistness . If you do n't have at least an hour , do not bother . At least quadruple that for a whole turkey .
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
I know and have read over and over the " correct " method of cooking this type of roast is low and slow ( meaning for hours on end ) not sliced up and on a grill like I did . Its not a traditional steak cut and its not ' supposed to ' be treated that way . If you are looking for the best way to cook this meat , follow all the advice you find online and in the other answers/suggestions here . However , I chose to go against that advice and slice up a chuck roast , tenderize it and marinate it to see if I could cook it like a steak . My results were that you can , and the results were surprisingly good . Your results will vary on the quality of your cut and how you prepare it , but it CAN be done effectively . Because I had beat and cut the chuck into very thin slices , putting them on the grill on low heat for more then 10 minutes was enough to overcook them . Thankfully I only did a few like that and the rest I grilled like a regular steak for a few minutes a side and they turned out better . I do n't believe this had to do particularly with the cut of meat , just the fact that they were so thin already .
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
Several sources as <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> practically insist that you salt steaks before cooking them . I do n't think McGee experiments with or discusses exactly when to season/salt a steak in his books , but <URL> that he is also in favour of pre-salting . The fact that so many people seem to prefer this technique would seem to indicate that there 's at least some merit to it , even if the science is n't well-understood . All of the arguments I 've heard against salting steak ( or beef in general ) before cooking seem to be <URL> in nature . When pressed for an explanation , many of these people claim that the salt draws out moisture which will subsequently dry out the cut . In practice , the amount of moisture it draws out is practically negligible unless you actually cure it , which means using lots of salt and letting it sit that way for a long time . I do n't know anybody that does this . Well , <URL> ( warning : do not follow the advice on that page unless you are fully prepared to ruin a perfectly good steak ) . When pressed , most of these people ( including Anita Lo , above ) say that the water it draws out to the surface will inhibit the <URL> . This is true - the presence of water does inhibit the Maillard reaction and any significant quantity of water will give you a steamed gray steak instead of a delicious seared brown one . But the key word here is significant . No reasonable amount of seasoning will draw out so much moisture that you actually end up with a puddle of boiling water underneath the steak , and even if it did , you would simply pat the steak dry before searing it . You do pat your steaks dry , do n't you ? Also note that this applies to dry seasoning . When marinating a cut of beef it is another story entirely . Salt in a marinade really does create brining and that will tend to make the meat juicier . When meat brines , it absorbs extra moisture - the meat still loses moisture when cooked but the added moisture from the brine helps to offset it ( this , again , is all in McGee ) . A saline solution also dissolves a portion of the tougher proteins in the meat , resulting in a more tender result . Salt is a great thing to have in a marinade , which is why some of the simplest of marinades - soy or teriyaki sauce - are so effective . Just , again , make sure to pat that beef dry before pan-searing it if you want to get any sort of browning going on . Anecdotally - for what little that 's worth - I find that there 's very little difference in tenderness whether seasoning with salt briefly before or shortly after cooking ( before resting ) . I 've done both and I honestly do n't think I could identify which was which in a blind test , except perhaps for the consistency of the " crust " that forms when you really pile on the salt - this is a favourable result for many , and I 'll often do this if I 'm in the mood . But all in all , the scientific data on this subject is scant ; the results are very inconclusive . And it just does n't matter that much ; the debaters seem to put entirely too much emphasis on this point when there are far more important factors in preparing a great steak or roast , such as additional seasonings , what it 's seared in , temperature and heat distribution of the pan , and let 's not forget the cut and grade of meat . These things have profound effects on the final result , and if I were obsessive about beef to a fault , then I would concentrate my efforts more on finding better quality ingredients and equipment rather than fussing over the salt issue .
Here 's a picture of some raw ground beef from the Wikipedia <URL> article so that you can see for yourself . Basically it is beef that has been run through a meat grinder , great for making taco meat , hamburgers , and the like .
end question
start question
What is the most effective method to mince candied ginger ?
Depending on what the ginger is going into , lightly greasing your knife blade helps ( but , obviously , not if you 're putting them in something where a tiny bit of oil would be an issue ) . As does using a heavy carbon-steel knife like a Chinese cleaver . Freezing sounds attractive , but it does n't work because the ginger becomes impossible to chop -- too hard . Overall , you pretty much have to expect to scrub the knife and cutting board after you 're done . You can make it a bit easier on yourself , but you ca n't make chopping candied ginger not messy .
Use a <URL> . Just fill it up with a big handful of spinach , and give it a good squeeze in the sink , or over a bowl if you like to drink spinach water . It extracts a ton of liquid quickly , and is a breeze to clean up when you are done .
The site that has the best information I 've found in regards to competitive cooking is <URL> . They do n't quite meet all your criteria in terms of searchability , but they do some levels of sorting and provide a wealth of information on the contests they list ( which are quite numerous ) .
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
Actually , hard boiling is one of the recommended uses for older eggs , since <URL> . I 'd highly recommend against using old eggs if you were going to whip the whites , for example , or any other heavy " structural " application . Quiche would probably be fine .
You can thank <URL> for the kick in fresh ginger , and <URL> and <URL> for the heat of dried ginger . Gingerol is chemically similar to capsaicin in chilis and piperine in black pepper , but undergoes changes when heated or dried converting it to the other compounds . You can see where gingerol and shogaol fall on the Scoville scale <URL>
You need to acquire a poppy seed grinder ( picture # 1 ) . It 's still not easy to grind a lot of poppy seed -- you will need to break out your supply of elbow grease -- but it 's much more efficient than a coffee grinder . It also does a better job , because it actually crushes the seeds to release all their oils and other goodness , rather than haphazardly cutting apart some of the seeds and not others . ( They do make electric grinders [ picture # 2 ] , but they 're aimed at bakeries and the like , not for home use . ) 1 . 2 . If you 're stuck using what you have , namely the coffee grinder , try adding sugar . It helps keep the poppy seed from sticking everywhere you do n't want it to . Naturally , you then need to take the sugar quantity into account when you 're actually using the poppy seed .
What I do is use a big plastic bowl . The bowl is about 18 " in diameter at the top and holds about 2 gallons of water . I fill the bowl about 1/2 to 2/3 full of blueberries and then fill it to the brim with water and leave the water running into it . As the bowl is filling and when it 's full I gently agitate the berries with my hands . Most of the chaff naturally floats to the top and spills over the edge of the bowl . As I agitate the berries , I also try to direct any leaves to the edge and pull any berries back from the edge . I lose a few good berries , but not too many and since I 'm dealing with a lot of them I do n't worry about it too much . As I 'm agitating the berries , I can feel a lot of the squishy ones and pull them out to look at them and discard if they 're too far gone . When most of the chaff is gone , I dump the berries into a colander and let them drain . I 've tried spinning them in a salad spinner , but for the amount of berries I 'm trying to process , I 've found that in order to remove any appreciable amount of water I can only put a small amount at a time in the spinner so it takes forever to spin them all . So I let them drain , and then since I 'm usually freezing these berries , I put some paper towels down on a tray and spread out a layer of berries . When they 're spread out I can pick out most of the squished or shriveled ones that I missed earlier , then I pull the paper towels out and freeze them . I have n't ever looked for one , but I 've always wondered if there 's such a thing as a colander or sieve or screen with really big holes - i.e. just slightly smaller than a blueberry - that I could just dump the berries into and rinse off all the debris . One big limitation to this technique is that it bogs down if you 're dealing with less than fresh berries . Picking out all the squished or moldy ones if they 've been sitting around too long is problematic .
In retail stores everything is " priced " to what the targeted consumer will pay . There is little relevance to production cost to final price The cost of most food goods is not for " growing " , but the energy for fertilisers , tractors , picking , processing , storage , shipping etc. . Your finally price is mostly the cost of energy used ( directly or indirectly ) For fruit juice you are paying mostly for picking ( fuel ) , processing ( electricity for water pumping and cleaning , electricity to running machines ) , storage ( electricity ) , and shipping ( fuel ) Cranberry juice is significantly more expensive to grow and pick , so this does show as a different price e.g. Apple Juice . Concentrate purchased at US$ 1,500 to US$ 2,000 per ton . Reconstituted 1:5 to 1:7 . So one litre of apple juice costs US$ 0.21 at best case . Yet you buy it for US$ 2 + per litre !
One technique , especially in Mexican foods , for recipes that use dried chilies , is to toast the pods before using them . Toast them over medium heat until the pod blisters , but do n't blacken too much . They are very thin , so going from done to ruined takes only a few seconds of in attention . Be careful !
To a certain extent , it depends on the condiment . For things like oil or vinegar , where germs generally ca n't really survive anyway , there is no need for refrigeration . On the other hand , things like ketchup , mayonnaise , or any other emulsions ( tahini for instance ) should be kept in the fridge . It also depends on whether the pack is sealed or has come into contact with air already . For example , sealed packs of mayonnaise can be kept at room temperature , though an open jar must be refrigerated . Aside from that , it 's always a good idea to keep things in sealed containers , and away from direct sunlight .
My foolproof method is as follows : Weigh out the desired amount of rice - I use 2-3oz per person - and put it in a saucepan . Wash the rice well by filling the pan with cold water , tipping it out , and repeating about 10 times . The more you wash the less the rice sticks together . Put enough water in the pan to cover the rice by about 5-8mm . Leave to soak for 25 minutes until the rice grains have turned opaque white . Put the saucepan over a high heat , uncovered , and bring to a boil . Boil until the water has evaporated and the surface of the rice is dotted with small holes . Turn off the heat . Cover tightly : if the lid is n't a tight fit , place a piece of foil on the pan , then put the lid on . Steam for at least 15 minutes . The beauty of this method is that it does n't matter how long you steam the rice for once it 's past the 15 minute minimum - in fact , the more it steams the better it is , especially if you have added spices or flavourings to the water .
I do n't think you are looking for a specific temp ( i.e. ; crack or soft ball stage ) after adding the citrus since you have already " contaminated " the syrup . My preferred recipe is from Epicurious.com ( <URL> ) . I have used it twice with great results and am going to be making again very soon for the holidays .
I had a friend that made Mussels using the piri piri sauce . I also think that it might be tasty if you use that sauce on a nice burger !
Place on non-stick sprayed foil ; broil for ~ 4 minutes in oven with some source of moisture or a glaze over top ( ie , you might take salmon and add a soy/mustard glaze ) to protect hydration levels .
It is the rice that is important , regardless of the cooker you use . If you think you are unable to find Sushi rice on your own in local market , why not check with a Sushi stall chef/owner near by ? Some people get mistaken with sticky rice , because really Sushi and sticky are on the same category . You could even say that Italian risotto is as well . However sushi rice is rinsed and surface starch is removed . Yamikuronue has already given you some good insight . Perhaps she could tell you what rice you could buy :) I hope you have the basic sushi rolling bamboo mat to help you with . From mine and many of others ' experience , the mat is very useful . I have used <URL> to make nice maki rolls . The following <URL> seems to be indicating a method ( water sprinkling ) that I saw/ate in a Japanese restaurant in Tokyo near Maru building . Hope it helps . Edit 1 : If you want to make best sushi out of normal rice , this is a bruteforce method we tried at home for the first time . Not the best Sushi found in a Sushi bar in Japan , but still it was a taste to remember , and an experience that made sense . break the long grain rice ( you can use a mortar , or bottle , or any clean/non-contaminated cylinder on your cutting board :) ) wash the rice until the starch goes away - even if it 's not 100 % , it 's good enough when you have soaked it . soak the rice rinse and wash again and rinse depending on the usual ' hardness ' of the rice you use , and how much water you add per cup of rice , you may have to change the amount of water you add . For example , if you have 50g of raw rice , and 75g of water , then the total weight is 125g . You must keep the same total weight when you add water to the soaked/washed rice . you can very well cook the rice in a pan good heat to cook rice : after boiling , bring down the heat to minimum and let it be , no need to take lid off once rice is cooked , you can mix it with sushi vinegar . If you do not have rice/sushi vinegar , then you can add some plain vinegar and pinches of salt mix all , stir well This gives you just nice rice for sushi :)
Be sure not to crowd them on the pan when roasting .
The General Mills site has the <URL> of the " original " pancake mix along with it 's nutrition facts . The serving size is 1/3 cup mix ( 40 g ) This means that one cup of the mix should weigh 120 g ( 4-1/4 oz ) .
An oven is the way to go . Toasting on a frying pan is a pain because you have to stand there shaking it for so long and it is far to easy to scorch if you pause . I have seen some recipes call for low oven temps but I use 350F ( 175C ) for 10 to 15 minutes stirring a few times . Some sources online recommend as low as 5 minutes but I personally have not ever had them done that quickly . They still have to be checked or they will burn . I like to use my toaster oven because it heats up faster and is cheaper to run . I have used an air popcorn popper with good results . Do n't overfill it and remove them when they smell nutty . It goes very fast but you have to do them in batches if you have many . For a pie or other sweet applications , I like to toss the nuts in butter and brown sugar and let them candy in the oven . The fat makes it harder to burn them . Obviously this wo n't fit for all recipes . I personally have not had good results using the microwave . Some people swear by it but it seems to me to make them a little gummy .
Without a canner you are limited to canning high-acid foods . Botulism spores do n't die at 212F , the boiling point of water . A pressure canner boiling water at 15PSI raises the boiling point to 250F or so which will kill the spores . The bacterium can not grow in a high acid environment and so high-acid foods such as fruit and pickles do not need to be processed in a pressure canner . Look for recipes for such foods . As use2199 said they will involve boiling the jars for a while to kill things . An excellent resource is the <URL> that can often be found near the canning supplies in grocery stores . It always calls for Ball products of course but it has a ton of good canning recipes and instructions . Do n't experiment . Botulism is not a fun thing . Your lips get tingly and then you die shortly aftwards .
end question
start question
How to prevent " sweating " chocolate covered strawberries ?
Very simple : do n't store your chocolate in the fridge . The ideal temperature for setting chocolate is 20 ° C . You can store it at less or more than that , but not too much . Setting in the fridge results in bad chocolate . Remember , when you work with chocolate , exact temperatures are extremely important . Here a loose translation from a <URL> on chocolate/couverture coating : This is the usual case . You only want a temperature difference of 12 ° to 13 ° between the chocolate and its environment as well as between the chocolate and the confect interior . If the interior is colder than the room , the setting will happen " inside out " . The cocoa butter film which gives a confect its shine will build on the inside , leaving the outside looking dull . This is a really good case for some types of confect , but you ca n't do it with most types of filling ( definitely not with strawberries ) . Cooling from the outside gives you a beautiful shine . If you want to achieve a good shine , it is possible to put the confects in the fridge for a short time , but only after they have cooled to 20 ° C at room temperature . Do n't let them fall to fridge temperature , take them out at 15 ° C . The continued cooling from the outside is beneficial . This should n't happen . The temperature difference is too small , and the confect does n't set quick enough . In this case , cocoa butter pools on the surface and creates a yellowish layer after it hardens . When you make your confect , you should time the first piece . The setting should need 10 minutes . If it is less , you do n't get all the possible shine . If it needs more , it will get grey or whitish yellow .
Fondant must be kneaded like dough , until it 's soft and smooth , before you roll it out . If you roll it out straight from the pack it will be too cold and stiff .
Ugh , I feel for you ! Just based on the description , it 's probably some type of flour beetle ( normally either red flour beetle or confused flour beetle -- but check on wikipedia for pictures ) . I 'm no exterminator , but I 've dealt with infestations of both in my pantry . The only thing that I 've found that works is to go through all food stored in the pantry ( including that in sealed packages ) and make sure that you throw out anything that is infested . I 'm not sure how you feel about chemicals , but at this point , I bug-bombed the house . After you 're sure that you no longer have an infested food , seal everything in plastic food storage containers . In theory , that should contain any further infestations to a maximum of one container . The other thing that I 've done is to store as much of my dry goods as possible in the fridge/freezer ... so stuff like flour is now stored in a sealed container in the back of the fridge . My exterminator has said that a lot of times the beetles come in a package from the grocery store ( a couple beetles in a box of pasta , for example ) and they just overrun/overpopulate as much as they can .
You 'll want to temper the melted chocolate . This means holding it at 88 ° F ( 31 ° C ) while it cools until it is completely hardened , then finally allowing it to return to room temperature ( or lower ) afterward . If you temper the chocolate this way , it will be much harder and last indefinitely at room temperature . The easiest way to temper chocolate is the " seed method " , which means adding a piece of solid ( never-melted ) chocolate to the fully-melted chocolate after removing it from the heat source and stirring thoroughly until the temperature reaches 88 ° F / 31 ° C , and then keeping it at that temperature until you 're ready to use it . ( Note that this is for dark chocolate ; for temperatures for other types of chocolate and for a more detailed guide to tempering , I suggest you check out the <URL> . ) The technical explanation for this is that the temperature at which melted chocolate hardens determines its final consistency as a solid . If chocolate hardens at room temperature , it ends up forming a very weak crystalline structure that begins to melt at even the slightest rise in temperature ( i.e. in your hand ) . Allowing it to solidify at the highest possible temperature below the actual melting point ensures that it forms a denser crystalline structure and will not melt at room temperature .
Was the coffee highly acidic or possibly salty ? Coagulating agents that I know of consist of apple cider vinegar ( which I personally use in my tofu making ) , magnesium chloride and calcium sulfate . Indeed , <URL> the common coagulants are salts , acids and enzymes . Not being a coffee drinker I ca n't say this has ever happened to me . My boyfriend drinks coffee and I do n't think he has ever experienced this , so it might be specific to each coffee . I have had soymilk coagulate in a cocktail I had once , but never when I make soy white Russians , so it must have had to do with the other ingredients in that drink , which have been lost to my memory . Off topic , but what restaurant were you at ?
There are two things to keep in mind while melting chocolate : Keep a low uniform heat I start off the melting process with low to medium heat . Once the chocolate fully melts , I reduce the heat to low and keep gently stirring all the while . If you allow the chocolate to cool , it separates out into non-uniform areas of heat , and the cooler pockets start crystallizing . This causes lumps or spikes to form . However , if you go too high , the chocolate may burn . Keep the chocolate absolutely dry This also includes steam and condensation from the boiler . The water in the boiler should not splash over or steam into the chocolate . Also make sure that the dipped materials ( truffles in your case ) are totally dry . Presence of water causes rapid cooling of parts of the chocolate , which again causes lumps to form . It also causes sugar to crystallize out of the fine chocolate mix . This is called " seizing " , and such chocolate is very brittle and difficult to melt . EDIT : Here 's a nicely written article on the different methods of melting chocolate : <URL>
Standard tips for browning/frying/grilling tofu ; Ensure that you press the tofu sufficiently to remove its own moisture , marinate if desired Lightly dust with flour Brush oil on the grilling surface The same advice applies for pan frying . I prefer to work at a high temperature , others have had very good results using only medium . Use a very thin , flat metal spatula to turn . Specific to the case of grilling , be mindful of the gap the tofu will stretch across on the grate ; it may be crumbling because it is n't strong enough or thick enough to sustain wide gaps . Additionally you can pre-bake the tofu to dry it out further . I have heard tell that salting lightly with finely ground sea salt helps prevent sticking but have no experience with this , and have had good results without the added sodium . Typically the moisture in the surface of the bean curd is causing the sticking . Prevent or inhibit this and you should be good .
Ok so you said salmon fillet . So my first question is how big is the filet . Fish do n't develop protein chains to hold together the same way red meat has . So the flakes do n't really hold together if pulled too hard , so I wonder if your fillets are too big . When I cook fish , especially salmon I try cut the fillet into serving sizes portions , maybe 2 inches across ( assuming a full sized fish here ) . This helps keep the fish to a manageable size . There is also a tool that is very aptly named because it was designed for this use and it 's called a fish turner . This is a thin and springy or turner that would better with fish because when scooping up the fish it does n't force the fish to reshape itself to the more rigid spatula and therefore you get less fish breaking apart . Do not turn the fish too many times . Leave it on one side and let it do all the cooking on that side that it needs , flip it once and let it finish . This will produce a nice crusty finish . As far as getting it to cook through the center , well that takes patience . Cook on a medium low heat but cook it for longer , like 8 minutes on each side ( experiment , do n't rely on my telling you 8 minutes ) . Then when you take the fish off the pan , put it on the plate and let it rest for a few more minutes . The fish will still be cooking on the inside and will finish up if you do n't serve it too early , but of course do n't wait so long that the fish cools . You want to serve it while it 's still hot , but not scalding hot .
Your primary defenses against cross-contamination include proper planning in the order of what you 're cutting and proper cleaning between uses . In the case of your stew , simply cut the vegetables first and then cut your meat . Doing so in this order you wo n't need to wash the board between the vegetables and meat . If you want to expedite the cooking process , then either use a separate board for the meat first so that you can start browning it while cutting the vegetables , or simply wash and re-use the board . A good scrubbing with hot soapy water is fine for your knife and board ( including wood boards ) . As mentioned previously , if you 're still concerned about bacteria you can rub the board with lemon juice or vinegar which will kill any residual bacteria . Using separate boards that are relegated to specific meat vs. vegetable duty is n't necessary as long as you 're properly cleaning your boards . A board only used for meat items is just as liable to transfer bacteria to the next item being cut on it if it is n't properly washed between uses . That being said , if you 're properly cleaning them then it 's fine to cut vegetables on a board that 's also been used previously for meat . As for cutting boards , your best bet for the care and maintenance for your knives are either wood or composite materials ( usually a laminated product of paper and resin - " Epicurean " being a prominent brand . Never use a tempered glass cutting board or other hard surface ( granite , marble , Corian , etc. ) as these are heavily damaging to the edge of your blade and unsafe for you as there is nothing for the knife to bite and grip into and it 's much more likely to slip and cut you . Plastic cutting boards and mats are n't very good on your knives and the boards in particular are either too hard and dull your blade prematurely or are soft and end up with lots of cuts and grooves which then trap food . People often have a false sense of security with plastic boards believing them to be " non-porous " . As the board is used , food material ends up crammed into the cuts and grooves and while the boards can go into the dishwasher , that only removes the surface grime , not that which is impacted and over time you increase the potential for bacterial growth to occur . Wood boards ( including bamboo ) are much better on your knives but to maintain them in good condition you need to properly maintain them . Periodically , when they look dry ( kind of like chapped skin ) you need to oil them with mineral oil . The mineral oil you buy at your local drugstore or grocery store pharmacy is fine , no need to buy fancy " block oil " in gourmet shops . Do n't use vegetable based oils as they will go rancid and transfer the flavor to your food . I like to give the cutting board a heavy coating at night , let it soak in overnight , and then buff off anything that did n't soak in . This will keep your wood fibers soft and supple so that the board wo n't split and crack , the fibers will swell back together making it more " self-healing " as you cut on it , and the oil in the wood will repel liquids that would otherwise try to soak in . When a wooden board gets marred and nicked up you just need to take it to the garage and give it a good sanding before dusting off , rinsing and re-oiling . Do n't use bleach on boards ( plastic or otherwise ) as it will typically leave a distinct smell in the board .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
It probably would not damage anything , but you would end up with rather a mess to clean up , probably , and not a very good product . The chocolate would melt slowly , maybe clog the filter . It might overflow hot , sticky coffee chocolate liquid all over . The candy is also probably old enough since it was roasted that it would n't brew excellent coffee , even if it was n't chocolate coated . Eat them as candy -- you will at least get your caffeine fix that way ! You will have energy to go out and get some coffee .
You can not easily create a powder from real chocolate , which contains a great deal of cocoa butter , making it very difficult to powder . While you can chop it finely , that still may be less than ideal for quickly creating hot chocolate . Instead , based on an idea from <URL> , you can make a thick ganache to use as essentially a hot chocolate concentrate , that can be kept in the refrigerator for a few days , or the freezer for a couple of months : Prepare a gancahe with 12 ounces of chocolate to 1 cup of heavy cream , with 1/4 tsp of salt . Cool it and then scoop it into single serving portions ( about 3 tablespoons ) to store , wrapping each individually . To make the hot chocolate , heat one portion with one cup of milk ( microwaving is especially convenient ) until it is hot . More traditionally , for an instant powder mix , you would combine cocoa powder ( often dutched ) , powdered sugar , and possibly other seasonings -- if you want it to work with a water base , you would also include dried milk powder . Many recipes are easily available on the internet .
The short answer is : you ca n't . The long answer : chocolate has very complicated thermodynamics . There is an optimal speed of the cooling process , and it is slow . Chocolate should be tempered to 33 Celsius ( there is some variance depending on the cocoa content ) and cooled in an environment between 27 and 20 Celsius . Then it looks and tastes good . Chocolate which has been cooled in a cold environment will not have any shine , and the colder you get , the larger your problems will be . You can even get uneven distribution of the cocoa fat , with it pooling along the nuts on the inside and letting the outer layers unpleasantly dry . Besides , you will get condensation , which is ugly and makes the chocolate sticky to handle and watered down in the mouthfeel . In extreme cases , you may even end up with distempered chocolate , especially if you do n't have seed crystals . No matter what you are doing - truffles , chocolate dipped fruit , pure pieces of chocolate in a mould - you ca n't rush it and get good quality .
The visible mold that you can see is the fruiting body of the mold , that is the moldy-equivalent to the apple ; much of the mold penetrates into its food substrate like the roots of a tree . Since strawberries are fairly porous , the entire fruit is almost certainly full of the mold , even though it is not visible . You should discard the strawberries .
It sounds to me like you did n't get the gelatin dispersed properly . Since the recipe you linked to does n't explicitly mention it , and neither does your question , I 'm going to assume that you did n't bloom the gelatin first . You must do this if you want proper dispersion of any gelatin product . To bloom powdered gelatin , just sprinkle it over cold liquid and leave it ( cold ) until it 's visibly swelled . This usually takes about 5 minutes . Then simply heat and stir ( thoroughly ) to disperse . To bloom sheet gelatin , you do almost the same thing - soak them for a little longer ( up to 10 minutes ) in cold water a separate vessel , then squeeze them to wring out any excess water , and then add to your cooking liquid ( in this case cream ) . You might also consider use a stick blender/immersion blender to make sure that it is completely dispersed after melting . This is usually unnecessary for gelatin , but if you 're blooming it and still ca n't get uniform distribution , that will help . I 'm certain that if you follow the proper preparation , your panna cotta will turn out fine next time . P.S. Do be careful not to add too much lime or other acid ; gelatin will not set properly at pH levels around or below 4 .
Ganache is made from chocolate and heavy whipping cream . You could add hot cream to the chocolate until you get the consistency you are looking for .
I had to do some reading on this one . There are a lot of answers . 1 - You should find a better recipe . Chocolate spread recipes I have used come in one of two styles . The water in your recipe seems to be a problem . The nutella style that uses fat , sugar , and chocolate . These will not really dry out . Sometimes the oil will separate a little and will need to be mixed back in . I would group frostings in this group although , of course , they contain far more sugar . See this recipe : <URL> Thick chocolate candy . AKA fudge . These contain water but the sugar and water are cooked together into a syrup so the water is not able to immediately dry out . They will crystallize if they are badly handled - many recipes contain a little corn syrup to prevent this . This does not seem to be what you are trying to make . 2 - Store your concoction in a lidded container that is n't too much larger than your sauce . I use mason jars to store mine . Alternatively you can push plastic wrap down onto the surface of the spread . 3 - Refrigeration . Recipes that do n't contain dairy do n't need to be refrigerated and in fact should n't be because it causes them to harden . 4 - Adding water to melted chocolate is only a problem when dealing with chocolate that is dry and meant to solidify such as a molded chocolate . In such a case even a drop of water will cause seizing . In this case where there is already quite a bit of water in the recipe seizing is not a risk and you should n't have any problem mixing a tiny bit back in . Do not add water to the nutella-like spread recipes . They do not contain water and it will not mix in . I ca n't tell from your description what is causing your sauce to harden - it could be drying out , separating , or crystallizing . Any of these will be solved by reheating and thoroughly stirring . Although water could be added to restore dried syrup I think you will get better results by switching to a recipe that uses fat in place of the water .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
end question
start question
Is all sausage considered a " Processed Meat " ?
Generally it 's things that have been prepared such that there 's some sort of added preservative -- salt , sulfates , sulfides , nitrates , etc. . So this would include all hams except ' fresh ham ' , almost all deli meats , all sausages , bacon , jerky , corned beef , etc. . So yes , sausage is considered a processed meat . If you want to get all technical about what ' processed ' means it could also include any other form of curing ( eg , smoking ) , and most any form of processing ( grinding , slicing , etc ) , although this second group typically is n't refered to as ' processed meat ' ( unless it 's then glued back together , like chicken nuggets , but those tend to have additives in them already ) As for the health aspects ... like most anything , it 's fine in moderation , although there are some people who react badly to sulfates and sulfides . Some sausages have more additives in them than others , and there are plenty of sausages out there that might be considered ' healthy ' if it 's in place of other higher salt/fat foods ( eg , some brands of chicken &amp; apple sausage ) .
Browning ingredients ( both meat and vegetables including the aromatics ) before doing a braise or stew ( which is what slow cookers do ) helps develop depth of flavor , through the <URL> where proteins and carbohydrates react together to create a myriad of flavorful compounds . Vegetables that are high in sugar , such as onions or leeks , and even carrots may also have some <URL> , where sugars react with each other , again creating flavorful compounds . Especially with beef , these deep browned flavors are often what people associate with the product , and what they expect to taste . On the other hand , browning almost by definition overcooks the outside of meat well past well done , so it is somewhat drier and tougher , although this can be mitigated by a long braise Some experts recommend browning only on one side of cubed meat , to compromise between getting flavor development , and getting good texture . The one thing browning or searing does n't do is " seal in the juices " ; that is a myth that is well de-bunked . The choice to brown or not brown is one of taste and balance . It is traditional in many recipes , especially of Western European heritage . There are many traditions where browning is not as frequent , including true Mexican cuisine and many Asian cuisines . Choose what seems most appropriate and tasty to you in a given dish . Personally , I like the flavor development , and almost always opt for browning .
It is absolutely worth adding ground pork or veal . I usually use a leaner ground steak and compensate with a fatty ground pork ( shoulder is good ) - fat = flavour . Another tip is to take your time . Many people try and cook bolognese in half an hour , but considering ground meat is usually made with tougher cuts , you end up with tough meat and under-developed flavours . Use plenty of onions and garlic , brown your meat well , use good wine , stock , tomatoes and herbs ( thyme , rosemary and bay ) and gently simmer that bad boy for at least 3 hours . For ultimate flavour , cook it the day before and let the flavours marry overnight .
Dried vegetation usually suffers cell wall degradation . So when rehydrated all the oils and flavours will easily leach out . This is very desirable for vegetation you want to extract oils and flavours from Many " teas " are also partially fermented for additional flavour . This processes need to be stopped otherwise the whole plant will be consumed . Drying is the simplest way to stop fermentation , and make the product storable and transportable
<URL> . In short , the core tenet of veganism is living without exploiting anything in the animal kingdom , and most ( if not all ) vegans consider taking honey from bees a form of exploitation .
Both refined sunflower oil and refined soybean oil are generally considered flavorless . Also included among these are : Canola ( rapeseed ) oil Corn oil Peanut oil Safflower oil Vegetable oil The most reliable method of course is to taste the oil :) . I 'm sure you can actually taste the flavor of extra virgin olive oil .
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
The pot will have more caffeine . You are right that the concentration of the final solution is determined not only by steeping time , temperature , etc. , but also by the amount of water available to dilute the stuff coming out of the tea , including caffeine . It will reach balance earlier with less water . So more water will get more of the different compounds in tea dissolved . For an empirical observation by somebody surprised by the result , see also <URL> .
They choose edible casings , either way , you 're better off taking the casing off . It sounds like it 's a cellulose synthetic casing . It 's possible to be natural casing , but papery fibrous leads me to think cellulose . I 've included some pictures to aid you along so you can guess for yourself . Often it 's easier to tell by the extra casing at the ends since natural and synthetic bunch up differently . Here 's a picture of synthetic casing from this morning 's session ( it 's a sopressata ) : This is what it looks like cured and partially peeled : And this is what natural casing looks like fresh :
It is absolutely untrue and very dangerous to think that " if it looks OK , and smells OK , it must be OK . " If that were the case , food poisoning would be very rare . Food that we can sense is spoiled rarely causes illness . For one thing what you do n't eat ca n't hurt you , and people generally wo n't eat food that looks or smells spoiled . But less obviously , much of what causes spoilage that we can taste , see or smell is actually fairly harmless to humans . Spoilage and rancidity are terms that are often used interchangeably , but rancidity is actually a specific kind of spoilage , caused by the relatively harmless oxidation of fats which is unrelated to any kind of bacteria or other microorganism . It 's just a function of time , temperature , oxygen , and light . Fancy dried cured meats get a fair amount of their special flavor from controlled rancidity . Molds and yeasts cause food to spoil , but are also used in controlled ways to create flavor . Dairy cultures are bacteria , and bacteria plays a major role in fermentation . What causes illness and death are often things that we ca n't taste , see , or smell . Salmonella , E. coli and C. botulinum are usually undetectable by our senses . Mishandled food that has been heated to temperatures far hotter than is necessary to kill any and all dangerous organisms can still kill if those organisms have produced chemical toxins or deadly spores . We usually ca n't sense those either . That 's why the " rules " exist . You need to take care to keep food out of the dreaded " danger zone " . Foods that are considered unsafe unless cooked to a specific temperature ARE unsafe unless cooked to that temperature ( although government recommendations in that matter are often overly conservative , there is room there for assessing your own risk ) . Preserved foods must have appropriate acid , salinity , sugar or other tested preservatives . Stored foods must be kept at the proper temperature . Dried foods must be dried correctly . Canning procedures rules seem overly strict . They are not . Learn the rules , disobey them at your peril . There is a lot of good information here under the <URL> tag . We are not making this stuff up . The <URL> " estimates that each year roughly 1 in 6 Americans ( or 48 million people ) get sick , 128,000 are hospitalized , and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases . " That 's just in the US where food handlers ( home and professional ) are mostly educated in basic food hygiene and just about everyone has access to a refrigerator . The worldwide figures are staggering .
Is this normal ? Yes , it is . Sinew and other connective tissues ( silverskin/fascia , ligaments ) are very tough stuff ; you need to remove as much as possible by hand before grinding . Sinew and ligaments are strong , whitish strands or " cables " connecting bones to muscles and to other bones , respectively . They 'll be in the same place on every piece of a particular cut of meat : a poultry drumstick has an easily-identifiable piece of sinew -- actually the " Achilles ' tendon " -- heading from the fleshy part to the exposed end of the bone . Silverskin is a connective boundary between muscles . It 's a thin , clingy , and annoying sheet , translucent silvery white , that you will find on the surface , and defining the divisions of , various cuts of meat . It might make it through the grinder if your blade is nice and sharp and the piece is n't too big , but it 's best to take it off ( your teeth ca n't deal with it much better than the grinder can ) . You 'll need a thin , sharp , narrow blade for this : a filet/boning knife , sometimes a good paring kife . Essentially , anything that 's not fat or muscle needs to be taken out before the meat goes into the grinder . Chicken thighs have a lot of connective tissue . Some of it is hidden inside the muscle segments on the underside of the thigh ; make sure you cut those open . Depending on the particular piece of meat you have , you may end up with what seem like extremely small bits after this process . Even a nice pork shoulder can result in 1/4 " or thinner pieces after the internal connective tissue is removed . This wo n't have any real effect on the grinding process ; the only thing to watch out for is thorough and even mixing if you end up with many different sizes and are marinating/curing the meat before grinding . You can grind without removing all the tissue ( it gets frustrating sometimes ) , but you 'll have to be prepared to stop the grinder and clean the blade and plate frequently -- the instant you notice that the meat is not coming out of the plate in clean , cohesive , and separate lines . If you see any signs of smearing or over-grinding ( the grind will start to be too fine and become pink as the fat and meat combine ) , stop and clear the blade . Otherwise , the mixture wo n't emulsify properly , the fat will melt out when you cook it , and the sausage will be dry . Does my blade need sharpening already ? It may very well , but this still wo n't help with sinew and ligaments . You should treat your grinder blade the same way you treat your kitchen knives -- maintain its edge , rather than waiting for it to become completely dull . I 'd say that I put my blade onto a sharpening stone every 50 lbs . or so . The nice thing is that it 's extremely easy -- you are grinding all the arms of the blade at the same angle : flat . The plate also needs to be maintained by grinding the surface where it meets the blade ( the edges of the holes should be sharp ) , but I 'd say that this can be done much less freqently . The blade and the plate can both be maintained quite successfully and easily with a piece of fine ( 800 grit ) wet-dry sandpaper slapped on a table .
When making lactose free milk , the lactose is n't actually removed . Instead , lactase is added to the milk . This breaks down the lactose into its component sugars , glucose and galactose . Lactose is one of the least sweet sugars , relative to sucrose ( table sugar ) . Both glucose and galactose are significantly sweeter than the original lactose , hence why lactose free milk tastes much sweeter . <URL> <URL>
The rate of slime of a piece of food has to do with amount of surface area it has . At each point a food 's surface is an entry point for bacteria . Since there is always bacteria on any cutting utensil or machine every cut piece of meat has been seeded with a bacteria culture . Although it might not kill you or make you visibly sick , the slime is coming from microbes which will stress your immune system that might be fighting other things instead . Unless it 's Nato beans or oysters slime on food is no good . If the cold cuts are sliming quickly it might be because the grocer is not cleaning the machine properly or somebody 's refrigeration is not cold enough , 5 to 10 degree f too warm .
Very , very few pizzas are made with butter . There is no way to make a universal statement , but butter is a rare . Olive oil would be more likely . Many pizza doughs are fat-free , including the traditional pizza di napoli ; New York style generally contains olive oil . It is rare for any traditional toppings to contain butter . Some individual cooks might saute vegetables in butter , but even then , olive oil more common . As for particular restaurant chains , you would need to check their nutrition information sites . Note : as Derobert points out , some deep dish Chicago style pizzas may contain butter in the crust .
It 's feasible , but then you 'd better really like the taste of turpentine and have the courage to take a chance on ingesting it . Turpentine comes from the oils of pine and -- you guessed it -- spruce . I would n't recommend taking a chance on smoking anything using coniferous materials . If you 're in an area with spruce , then you probably have alder as well . There 's your viable alternative . Additional info : If you do n't have alder handy or you just dislike alder smoke , then wild hazelnut or wild applewood will work just as well . ( I use the applewood . ) If you do n't live where the trees are , most hardware stores that sell wood stove or pellet stove fuel will have wood chips made from hardwood trees . If you live anywhere near an orchard , take a drive to the country and ask a grower if you can buy or reserve some apple , cherry , or nut tree prunings . And finally , if you live in eastern North America , maple and butternut woods make excellent smoking materials .
Having not had horsemeat myself , I can only inquire with one who has : they found it to taste like bland but tender red meat . So , use mild reds for pairing like you would for beef tenderloin : Cabernet Sauvigonon Pinot Noir Lighter-bodied Shiraz/Syrah
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
I also find them hard to chew when baked , but they are edible . To make them easier to eat , you want to finish them up using a different method to get a crunch on the outside . I find you can either : turn the heat up in your oven at the end , or broil them briefly pan-fry them after they 're done cooking in a little bit of oil on a skillet ( cast iron preferred ) grill them after baking I usually boil or bake them first , or simmer them in some water in a pan on the stove ( not enough to cover them , just enough to kind of steam them ) and then finish them on the grill for best flavor and texture . I 'd recommend finishing on the grill over any other method . You can also completely cook them on the grill if preferred , but that can be a bit tricky if they 're raw sausage and not pre-cooked , so keep an eye on them and make sure they 're done completely throughout . You can definitely remove the casings , and depending on what dish you 're making that may be preferred . However I have had success making an appetizing whole sausage using the above methods .
Generically speaking meat that is appropriate for a braise is tougher and has connective tissue that can be turned to gelatin by the long slow cooking process . As you 've noted , meat that is tender can be " cooked to death " using that same method , so I would , generally , recommend against using a braise . However , a stove top braise can go quickly without ruining the meat , if you keep it short and treat the braising liquid as more of a sauce than anything else . I would suggest that you brown each side of your lamb chops , then add all your other ingredients . Depending on the amount of liquid your original recipe calls for , you might want to cut back . I would n't want more than 1/2 cup or so of liquid . " Braise " covered on the top of the stove for 1/2 hour , never going past a simmer . Pull out the chops and cover , while you reduce the braising liquid to make it more sauce-like , then spoon onto the chops . Note that you wo n't have the long time to meld flavors , and if there are big chunks of garlic or onions , they wo n't be a sweet as in the longer braise . But you should get a serviceable dish .
Out of personal experience and out of personal taste I 'll give you the following : If you like it moist 55 degrees C for 4 hours . If you like it to feel like steak : cook it like steak . If you like your meat to feel more like fish cook it like steak for 20 minutes . Then drop the temperature by 10 degrees C.
end question
start question
What temperature and time should I use for a cupcake recipe ?
Firstly , it strikes me as odd that your recipe has no raising agent - no baking powder , no bicarbonate/baking soda , no self-raising flour . Unless you 're whipping a lot of air into the batter , the cakes will barely rise , and you will end up with ' cookies ' . I would add 2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) and see if that helps . As for the temperature of your oven , I would n't go so far as to halve the temperature and double the time . The idea is that you need enough heat for the cakes to rise at a decent rate then form a crust on the outside . 100 degrees will do little but slowly dry the cakes out . Domestic ovens are rarely well calibrated , so your oven may be running hotter than the dial indicates . Invest in an oven thermometer to make sure you are setting the temperature correctly : I have had an oven run 40 degrees hotter than the dial said before now ! If you have n't got the time to get a thermometer , try setting the oven about 20 degrees cooler on the dial , to around 180 degrees .
It really depends on what you are looking for in a cooking class . I can give you some thoughts from my own personal experiences , but I am sure there are many factors that you must consider , so you will get a variety of answers . I am assuming you are talking about recreational ( that is the industry term , as opposed to professional ) classes ; I do n't claim to have good advise for choosing professional programs to become a line cook or patisserie on a career path to being a chef or pastry chef . Facilities The cooking school should tell where their class is taught . A local community class in a high school home-ec room or in a community center will usually offer basic facilities ( although I imagine some will stun you ... ) Commercial cooking schools or businesses should have photos of their classroom for you to peruse , and will usually brag about the equipment they offer ( such as Viking stoves ... ) Look at the pictures , and ask if the environment will be comfortable for you . Level How advanced is the class ? If you already know how to temper your own chocolate , and own three dipping forks , you do n't want to take a basic workshop in chocolate . On the other hand , if you have never made a biscuit , you might not want to take an advanced pasty course where croissants and puff pastry the order of the day . Choose a class that is at the level you desire -- the course guide should make this very clear . Cleanup Find out if the school has interns , or other staff who do the cleanup . Commercial schools tend to -- otherwise , you might expect to be helped police and do dishes , especially in a community program like one hosted at a community center . You should be comfortable with the expectation . Curriculum or Menu Good cooking classes list exactly what dishes or items will be taught in the class in their class guide or curriculum . They should also specify the lessons learned or techniques applied . Often there is a theme , like " Valentines Dinner for Two " or " Pastry Intensive " Select classes that teach the techniques you want , and dishes you like . Duration Is it a one evening class , where you are in and out , and little is at risk , or a week long adventure where if you do n't enjoy the format or the instructor , you have lost a week 's tuition and a week 's enjoyment . I once did n't come back from lunch on the 2nd day of a five day course because I did n't like the instructor 's style . For longer classes , you might ask for guarantees of a partial refund if the instructor or style or presentation is not to your liking , before signing up . For day long and longer classes , find out if lunches or other relevant meals are provided ( at commercial schools , they often are , either cooked as part of your curriculum , or done by staff or interns for your enjoyment ) , or whether you bring your own . Often there is not enough time to go out for lunch . Presentation and Participation There are several main ways cooking classes are taught ; you want to be sure the style is one that you enjoy . Presentation only -- the instructor prepares dishes at the front of the room , and the students watch . Kind of like a cooking show on TV , but live and in person , so you can smell ( and maybe taste afterwards ) , and ask questions . Each person ( or group ) prepares some -- the class is broken up into groups or individuals , each of whom prepare one or more dishes from the menu . You might not get to do the dish you wanted from the curriculum , but you will get hands-on for something . Usually , the groups will share afterwards , so you get to taste everything . Every person ( or group ) prepares everything -- you will get to prepare everything listed in the curriculum , and usually eat it . Choose a format you are comfortable with , especially if you want to be sure you get to try a specific dish hands-on . Pacing When you evaluate the curriculum or menu , the manner of presentation , and the overall duration of the course , you should have some idea of how fast it goes . Make sure you are comfortable with the pace . If you like a slow and pleasant pace , you do n't want to be a in class where folks are expected to knock out their dishes fast -- although those are often more the advanced classes at commercial schools . Ingredients Find out whether you bring your own ingredients , or they are supplied . ( Most commercial cooking schools supply them , but community programs may not . ) Cost Cost counts . Need I say more ? General Talk to the folks at the school 's customer service line ( if they have one ) if you have questions . Take a short class at the school to evaluate the facilities and their general style before splurging on a longer or more expensive class . And bring your patience . By the nature of the beast , you often sit through things you know , or repetitions , or have to wait through lectures and demos before the hands-on portion . If you can , bring a friend to share the experience , gossip with , and generally have a good time , should you be so disposed . Bon
Tomatoes are mostly water anyway . They 're not going to get above boiling point whether or not you add water ( or at least not by more than a very few degrees even with salt added - less than the effect of altitude ) . On the other hand the browned bits from the bottom of the pan ( often called fond in the US though I 've never heard this in the UK and the usage in France is a bit different ) do give a nice flavour to the sauce so long as they do n't catch . If you do add water , you 'll need to simmer it down anyway , making that the stirring step still happens , just later . But adding some water fairly early can give you some flexibility . A good time to do this is when it 's starting to meet constant stirring but you need to get on with the rest of the meal . A low heat and a heavy pan help too .
It 's not a " cheat sheet " , and is rather too big to stick to your fridge , but I highly recommend the book <URL> , which is an encyclopedia of exactly these associations . What ingredients does any particular ingredient go with ? How do you cook it ? Absolutely terrific book !
Freezing is bad for things which have a special structure and lots of water . Everything else should be OK with freezing . The prime example of a thing which behaves badly when frozen is a fruit . It consists mostly of water , but is firm instead of liquid because the water is contained within a cellulose structure created by the cell walls of the fruit . When you freeze it , the water turns to sharp ice crystals , which also expand in volume ( water is one of the few liquids which does that upon freezing ) , and they hurt the cell walls . When you defrost the fruit , it turns terribly soft , and all the juice runs out . It is practically like maceration without the sugar . You can use the fruit for cooking , e.g. for a jelly , but it is not the same thing as a fresh fruit . Another example which is very structure dependent is whipped egg white . It is a fragile foam , and the formation of ice crystals is also very damaging for it . Whipped cream is similar - you can freeze it ( and get ice cream ) , but it melts to a liquid , not a foam . On the other hand , foods which have a specific structure but not much water are OK with freezing . Butter is not pure fat , it is an emulsion of 17 % water in 83 % fat . Emulsions tend to have very fragile structures ( do n't freeze mayonnaise ) , but butter is OK , because there is n't much water so the formation of crystals does n't disrupt the structure . Another exception which is OK to freeze is dough . A dough being practically a mesh of gluten , it does n't get really hurt by the crystals . There are a few ingredients which develop an off taste when frozen . For example , do n't freeze anything carbonated , it tastes terrible afterwards . You should also consider the problem of freezer burn . It happens when the moisture of the frozen product sublimates in the dry freezer air . To prevent it , you have to seal the food airtight . You are therefore limited by the kind of food you can seal . If you have a food which would make a mess in a home vacuum sealer , like a wet stew , you could try freezing it for a night , so it is hard but does not have freezer burn yet , and then sealing the frozen chunk and returning it to the freezer . Some ingredients will prevent the food from freezing into a solid block . Notable examples are salt , alcohol and propylene glycol ( which is used as a solvent in food coloring and baking aromas ) . This should n't be a food safety problem , because first , bacteria growth is inhibited by low temperatures , and second , if you have these things in concentration high enough to completely prevent freezing at -18 ° C , then they will kill the bacteria by themselves . But it can cause some logistic problems if the food stays too soft . As you see , these general guidelines have exceptions , or at least require some knowledge of what food is built like ( but frankly , I would have predicted that yeast dough freezes badly if I did n't know from experience that it works well ) . So you should definitely try to remember it on a per-case basis for the most common things you intend to freeze . A very convenient guideline is to think if you can buy a premade equivalent frozen at the supermarket . If they sell it , it will probably turn out OK when frozen at home ( sometimes with differences , like frozen fruit ) . If they do n't have the food ( or its major ingredients ) , there is probably a reason for that .
It depends on the meat and how it 's cut . A ' solid ' uncut piece like a pork loin will take longer to marinade properly than if it was cut into thin strips for stir frying , for example - I 'd want to marinade the former at least 7-8 hours , while the latter could probably get away with 1 .
You can try to set up my at-home on-the-cheap monkey-at-the-controls sous-vide machine . I take a nearly full 22 quart stock pot with an analog instant read thermometer to monitor the temperature and watch the temperature and adjust the dial accordingly . With this only needing 30 minutes you probably just want to get the water to exactly 72 degrees C and then immerse the potatoes without adding any heat . The amount of energy in 20 quarts of water is phenomenal and you wo n't lose a lot of heat to the air . Alternatively you could get 72 degree water and a beer cooler and try that way for the extra insulation .
I do n't think you are looking for a specific temp ( i.e. ; crack or soft ball stage ) after adding the citrus since you have already " contaminated " the syrup . My preferred recipe is from Epicurious.com ( <URL> ) . I have used it twice with great results and am going to be making again very soon for the holidays .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
Peanut ( groundnut ) oil is a great option . In the US vegetable oil generally means soybean oil or a soybean oil blend . The main things are that it be neutral ( little or no taste of its own ) , with a high smoke point . On those scores , you ca n't do much better than peanut oil . I have not used rice bran oil . Yellow squash generally means this : ( the long one ) It can also mean the other yellow vegetable in the picture or this : What it is not , is butternut : That is a different flavor entirely . Yellow squash is more like zucchini , butternut squash is more like pumpkin . Welcome to Seasoned Advice .
Generically speaking meat that is appropriate for a braise is tougher and has connective tissue that can be turned to gelatin by the long slow cooking process . As you 've noted , meat that is tender can be " cooked to death " using that same method , so I would , generally , recommend against using a braise . However , a stove top braise can go quickly without ruining the meat , if you keep it short and treat the braising liquid as more of a sauce than anything else . I would suggest that you brown each side of your lamb chops , then add all your other ingredients . Depending on the amount of liquid your original recipe calls for , you might want to cut back . I would n't want more than 1/2 cup or so of liquid . " Braise " covered on the top of the stove for 1/2 hour , never going past a simmer . Pull out the chops and cover , while you reduce the braising liquid to make it more sauce-like , then spoon onto the chops . Note that you wo n't have the long time to meld flavors , and if there are big chunks of garlic or onions , they wo n't be a sweet as in the longer braise . But you should get a serviceable dish .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
It does n't sound like you 're doing anything wrong . I 've found risotto to be one of those recipes that can vary up to 50 % ( usually less ) from what the author calls for and still turn out great . I 've even used recipes that call for " 2-4 " cups of broth . You may be overcooking it though , <URL> . It 's not uncommon for people to overcook this until you have a mushy risotto .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
Firstly , it strikes me as odd that your recipe has no raising agent - no baking powder , no bicarbonate/baking soda , no self-raising flour . Unless you 're whipping a lot of air into the batter , the cakes will barely rise , and you will end up with ' cookies ' . I would add 2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) and see if that helps . As for the temperature of your oven , I would n't go so far as to halve the temperature and double the time . The idea is that you need enough heat for the cakes to rise at a decent rate then form a crust on the outside . 100 degrees will do little but slowly dry the cakes out . Domestic ovens are rarely well calibrated , so your oven may be running hotter than the dial indicates . Invest in an oven thermometer to make sure you are setting the temperature correctly : I have had an oven run 40 degrees hotter than the dial said before now ! If you have n't got the time to get a thermometer , try setting the oven about 20 degrees cooler on the dial , to around 180 degrees .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
A meat thermometer is a device that can be left in food in the oven , the thermapop is not a meat thermometer because the plastic casing and electronic are not oven safe . If you put your thermapop in the oven and left it there you 'd destroy it . You could use it to measure air temperature outside the oven without a problem , although you 'd use up the battery quickly if you left it on constantly . The two most widely available meat thermometer types are mechanical ones which stick into the meat and have a dial you can read , and electronic ones which have a probe on a wire which goes into the meat in the oven . Either type can be used to measure oven temperature , you just put the probe in the oven without being in meat . Given how dirt cheap oven thermometers and room thermometers are these days there 's not much net gain though , you may as well invest a small amount of money in the right tool for the right job .
end question
start question
How to prepare pie dough in bulk at home ?
Keep the fats as cold as possible before you start . Done right , it will more than compensate for the warmth of hands , blender/processor parts , and ambient temperature . Having somewhat chilled your choice of fats , separate them into small , 1 inch sized pieces , working with copious flour to keep them from sticking to one another . Place this in the freezer overnight . This allows the blade to chew up even near-frozen bits . I have n't noticed much degradation with this method , though I would n't the leave fats in for much longer than that . Mix your dry ingredients together . Put the thoroughly chilled fats in a blender/mixer , leaving some room . Then , using only as much dry ingredients as necessary , pulse the fats until you have pearls slightly smaller than fish gravel . This works especially good for blenders where the ingredients tend to get stuck at the bottom . If you get the chance , stow the blended stuff in the freezer while you work with the next batch . Once you have completed the blending en masse , you can add the rest of the dry ingredients . You should have a uniform texture to the whole mixture . Add water until the dough comes together with limited kneading . Wrap and return to fridge as soon as possible .
Topside is quite a tough cut , so I 'd tend towards a longer cooking time ; as ' low and slow ' as possible , really . With other meats , escalopes are usually made using leaner cuts , like chicken breast or pork tenderloin , which would be cooked relatively quickly , so I 'm surprised your recipes call for topside .
Short answer : no , there 's no standard scale . First of all , I 'm pretty sure it 's common enough for stoves of varying power to use the same range of numbers . I see an awful lot of stoves that go up to 10 in the US , and I 'm quite confident they 're not all the same . Second , the real property of a stove is its power output , not its temperature . You can clearly see this if you go look at gas stoves - they 're described in units of power ( BTUs in the US , hooray ) . The temperature resulting from a given power will depend greatly on what you 're cooking . A burner with nothing on it will have a much higher temperature than one with a heavy pot of boiling water on it . To a lesser degree , the temperature will also depend on the environment - a cooler room with some air circulation will keep the burner a bit cooler than a warm room with still air . So , if you really want to know what you 're getting , you have to look up the power output of the stove - or failing that , maybe try to measure it yourself .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
Always hot smoke pork . Unless you know what you 're doing . In which case you 'd know that . Look at <URL> for ideas on how to make a cheap home smoker that will work for you . In general , you need : a heat source ( hot plate works well ) container for wood chips/sawdust ( skillet works and helps modulate and spread heat ) housing ( any kind of box thing : cardboard , wood , ceramic , an existing grill ... it just needs to seal and maintain a bit of heat ) a rack for the food to be smoked ( or you could use rope and hang food as in smoke houses ) thermometer ( poke it into the top or the side to keep an eye on things ) Put it all together , put the sawdust into the skillet , turn it on , and adjust for desired temperature . I 'd recommend 200-250 for pork . You may also want to put a second hotplate in with boiling water , or splash a bit of water in the smoke pan on occasion to keep the inside moist when smoking for long periods . Before smoking anything , brine it and let it sit uncovered in the fridge for a day . This allows the surface protein to dry , and this helps to develop the smoke flavor .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
They do go above 550F , it 's a question of design and the type of wiring used in an oven . <URL> is commonly used to wire up home ovens , which has a maximum surrounding ambient temperature rating of 105 degrees celsius . So , oven makers need to design ovens where the ambient temperature of things outside of the insulated oven cavity do n't reach a temperature above 220 degrees fahrenheit ( that 's where the wiring lives ) , and not exceed the insulation around the door of the oven , and not burn anyone coming in contact with the sides . So it 's both safety and technical cost reasons . Hotter home ovens are possible , and available , but they 're made a bit differently and the cost to produce them is a bit higher . Since most people cooking at home do n't need something that goes north of 500 degrees , there is n't a big market for them - and the market that does exist is mostly in the commercial space . A residential implementation would have some pretty specific insulation requirements , be slightly larger than most home builders anticipated ( making them harder to install ) and naturally quite a bit more expensive and scarce .
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Yes . You can either use aluminum foil that has been lightly sprayed with some Pam or rubbed with butter OR a piece of parchment paper cut into a larger circle than the pie . It will create an overhang that you can use to pull out the weights or beans . If you try to bake it with the beans on the surface it will cook directly into the dough and your shell will be ruined . I still prick the bottom of the crust because steam and air will still be trapped underneath the pie weights . When you remove the weights to finish the baking of the crust , if it has not been pricked you could still end up with pockets and air bubbles as that part of the crust is still a bit raw .
Think about this question another way : You are making vanilla infused liquor , you just happen to be cooking with it . And Yes , you can infuse any liquor If you want to use a substitute for Wodka brand Vodka ( i.e. use cheaper , off-brand vodka like Kamachatka ) , I would say that yes , you can substitute out one vodka for another with the caveat that you will want to consider the purity of the distillation you are using as it may impact the flavor of your extract . Substituting top-shelf vodka for " well " vodka may result in an inferior extraction . If you are asking whether you can use some other grain alcohol other than vodka , itself , the answer is that yes , you can . You can even use brown liquors and so on ; bear in mind they will all extract the oils but will carry the flavors differently ( vanilla infused bourbon does n't sound half bad ) . In particular , I would recommend going with a neutral grain spirit like <URL> ; I have used it in making lemoncello , orangecello , and homemade Kahlua and it is pretty effective in extracting flavor while having none of its own .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
For something like a drink , I generally bruise the mint and use the whole leaves fresh - rub it between your fingers a bit to release the oils and then just drop it in the drink . The main benefit of this method for me is that a bunch of dry , crumbled mint in a drink is going to make it look very muddled and hard to drink , as you 're constantly getting a mouthful of dried leaves ( you could get around this by steeping it with the dried herbs and then straining it , but that 's too much work ! ) . As a bonus , fresh picked herbs in a nice glass of lemonade , for example , just looks so fresh and tasty ! If I 'm cooking with it and I have a supply of fresh on hand , I prefer to use that . Depending on the dish , it might be whole leaves , but more likely chopped - I actually use kitchen scissors for a lot of fresh herb preparation as it can be easier than a knife in many cases . You certainly can dry it , especially at the end of season when you need to harvest , and use the dried leaves in place of fresh . The main benefit to drying is that it stores really well ; dry also seems to be a bit more powerful , at least when first dried . Over time the flavor of dried herbs will degrade . You usually use a 3 to 1 ratio replacement - if a dish calls for 1 tablespoon of fresh mint , you 'd use 1 teaspoon of dried , though as the dried herbs age you 'll have to increase the amount used over time .
A basic bechemel or broth based pot-pie filling will not expand significantly when being baked . It may bubble a little under the pastry from being simmered . You would the casserole up to maybe 1/2 inch ( 1 cm ) below the lip , and apply pastry on top of that . Less is fine if you have less filling .
The product in your link has been <URL> a process which uses a rotating drum to add a thin candy shell , such as on nuts or seeds . To achieve that effect , you would need either a machine or a <URL> , as illustrated on Pastry Chef Central . <URL>
There are many ways to do it , so it is personal choice . Here is a <URL> if you need to know more . Here is how I do it . You are going to need two forks and a knife . STEP 1 Place the prickly pear on a cutting board or a plate using a fork by firmly pushing the fork lengthwise into the skin of the prickly pear STEP 2 With a sharp edge knife , cut of the two end of the prickly pear . STEP 3 Now , cut through the skin lengthwise . The skin is quite thick , so you need to make a deep cut . STEP 4 With the second fork , pull away the skin on one side from the inside of the fruit as far as you can STEP 5 Now , firmly hold the fruit with the second fork by inserting the second fork into flesh of the fruit . STEP 6 Remove the first fork and use that to peel away the rest of the skin from the flesh of the fruit . STEP 7 The inside of the fruit is now free from the skin , so you can remove it . Place it on a clean plate STEP 8 Discard the rests , and properly rinse all the utensils under running water before cleaning the next fruit Other tips : Wearing welding gloves also works well to handle the fruit To remove most of the thorns before hand , hold the fruit lengthwise between your fingers and gently rub the skin over loose sand . Rinse with water afterwards . Be careful when removing the gloves A bottle brush or nail brush can also be used . Wearing gloves , hold the prickly pear in one hand while you scrubbing the skin of the fruit with the bottle brush/nail brush . Rinse under running water . In both of the above cases , you still need to treat the fruit as you normally would as if it would still have thorns on .
Gluten is what makes doughs chewy , and gluten is associated with high protein flour , so you should try and get low protein ( " soft " ) flour . Also , the colder your fat ( i.e. , butter ) the flakier and crispier your crust will be . You also may want to substitute some of the butter for lard or shortening ; the lack of water in the lard will also help the crust become crispy and avoid gluten formation associated with hydration of the flour . Note that you can not substitute lard/shortening for butter in an equal ratio ; you should try and find a recipe that specifically calls for it to get the ratio correct . As <URL> noted , you can also blind bake the crust to start its cooking process ( but as <URL> warns , you may not be able to call it a " pie " after that ! ) . Finally , it may be the case that your pie filling is too moist and therefore makes the interior of the crust very soggy . I 've found that almost all good apple pie recipes call for pre-cooking the apples to remove a lot of their moisture before putting them in the crust .
<URL> The point of leaving the cookies to sit on the pan is to dry out the skin so it 'll solidify better . I 'd suggest resting longer ( up to 50 minutes ) or using a hotter oven .
How to throw dough , a basic step by step guide . Make sure you have a dough that can stand up to being airborne . This means that you need a high gluten dough . You can throw wetter doughs as you get more experienced but they require much more precise hand placement and are much less forgiving . Make sure your dough is fully risen with out being " blown " . It should be elastic and soft to the touch . Coat dough in flour . This step is necessary to allow free spinning on your hands and to get good , clean releases . Create crust . You can use the method that daniel describes , you can use the Papa John 's fold and tuck method , you can do it like this <URL> , it does n't matter as long as you end up with a piece of dough that is flat over the interior with a ridge going around the outside . You should be comfortable with in-air hand stretching before you get to the actual throwing . This is when you place the dough on the backs of your hands , support it with your knuckles and stretch it out . This position is a great way to start a basic toss that wo n't rip your dough as you will be catching with the backs of your hands and not your fingers . You want to release the dough by having your right hand provide upward thrust as your left hand provides spin . This will provide a straight up toss that is very easy to catch . The way to do the more advanced throws is learn to release from your finger tips . This involves having your fingers rest along the ridge that we made in step four . You can check out a quick tutorial starting at 2:17 on this <URL> . Feel free to ignore the rest of it , but it was the best explanation I found online . Basically , you want the dough to hang in such a way as to allow you to impart spin and momentum with just one hand , while other is occasionally used as a stabilizer . This allows tricks like the <URL> and the through the legs and all the others . Important tips that will help you be successful at learning this skill . Cold dough is more elastic than warm dough . That means its terrible for pizza but great for practicing . It also resists puncture a little better , so less holes . A damp kitchen towel has about the same aerodynamics as a piece of dough . It 's what I used to train the guys at my restaurant on for extra practice , and it 's way cheaper than one of those rubber doughs . The dough should always be spinning in the air . If it 's not , you are n't doing it right . Throwing dough can result in a very thin middle . You want to make sure that you are stretching evenly and keeping an eye on that if you intend to use the dough for it 's actual purpose of delicious pizza . Practice , Practice ! Throwing dough is a physical skill and you have to train your muscles a little to be good at it . It can be a little frustrating at first but stick with it , it 's a lot of fun . If you have any additional concerns leave a comment and I 'll do my best answer them .
end question
start question
What 's the worst that could happen when fermenting sauerkraut ?
If you follow proper procedures , it 's safe . The correct amount of salt ( initially ) and the acid developed by the desirable bacteria population prevent the process being taken over by non-desirable bacteria . It works . Right around 2 % by weight salt to cabbage ( or cabbage and ... ) is a good number , with Stephie 's German sources suggesting that possibly even 0.75 % would be sufficient . More than 2 % is NOT better ( I have experimental results , even . ) There should be no need to add water . I personally prefer to use some red cabbage when fermenting in a clear container , as it gives me a visual clue to acidification progress . If using an opaque crock , no point in that ( other than if you happen to like pink sauerkraut ) , as you should not open the crock to check ( letting air in is bad practice . ) I keep my clear containers in the dark . IMHO after a lot of research before I dove in last summer , you should absolutely use an airlocked or watersealed container and leave it alone for 6-8 weeks . The " open crock method " that for some reason seems to be " traditional USA methodology " ( why , I ca n't imagine , we had plenty of immigrants who knew better ) is best avoided , as it pretty much ensures a mold battle . Properly tightened ( not overtightened , not loose ) canning jar lids are one form of airlock ( do not loosen them - but keep the jar in a bucket just in case you over-tightened them , as it will contain the mess . ) The nutty folks who are checking on it every few days are making something vaguely fermented , but it 's not ( IMHO ) sauerkraut , which takes time ; and they raise the odds of mold hugely . " Traditional fermentation crocks " with a water-sealed lid are another approach which works well , albeit generally with a commitment to a larger batch . I 've made 4-5 batches by now , all done under airlock ; one ( with insufficient weight ) did poke cabbage above the liquid line and develop " kahm " yeast - I saw it , I left it alone , I tossed the top layer into the compost when I opened the jar , the rest is fine . With sufficient weight , that should not be a problem . So , for the first time ever , I 'll plant cabbage next year ( I dislike cabbage , but I like sauerkraut . )
Traditional goulash is a stew/soup , usually using a cheaper cut of meat suited to slow cooking . It usually contains potatoes and other vegetables , as well as noodles . A true stroganoff consists of paprika-dusted fillet steak quickly pan fried with mushrooms and onions in a sour cream and brandy sauce . It is usually served with rice . I understand that in the US stroganoff can also refer to a stew made with similar ingredients as the traditional dish , and is served with noodles . This , coupled with the shared use of paprika , is evidently where the line blurs .
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
No , it wo n't be different . It is , however , a bit harder . The issues are mainly : It 's harder to get the heat away from the food . So you end up cooking with some direct heat . This can be avoided by using a small amount of well soaked , large wood chunks and get them smoking with some normal charcoal . You should also use indirect heat by stacking the chunks on one side of the grill . If you use wood chips , this wo n't work . They burn too fast and need too much of an ignition source . Heat insulation is n't very good . The walls are thin and you have to remove the whole lid to tend your food . The heat dissipation can be a real issue for long low and slow recipes . Smokers either tend to be well insulated ( brick or ceramic ) or have small doors so you can access your food from the side . Adding fuel can be a pain . It 's made easier if you have a grill surface that is hinged . If you do n't , I 'd suggest getting one if you are seriously considering smoking . It makes adding fuel much easier . Of course , adding fuel causes the above heat dissipation issues , so add fuel as infrequently as possible . That said , I smoked for years on a Webber grill , and it worked just fine . I did , however , upgrade to a <URL> at the first available opportunity . The results are more consistent and the process is much easier . But you 'll be fine getting started with the webber .
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
Never down the drain . We 've had a few incidents in my neighborhood where the sewer pipes were clogged with fat , and a few people 's basements flooded with sewage as a result . For fats that solidify , let them do so , then pitch them in your regular garbage . Chill grease in the fridge if you need to get it to harden up . For ones that do n't solidify , pour them into a sealable ( <URL> ) bottle , and throw the whole container away with your regular garbage . It 's possible that your area might accept cooking fats &amp; oils as part of a recycling effort . Ours does for motor oil ( I live in Maryland ) . For restaurants , some places ( eg , the state of Maryland ) require a system for catching grease that 's been washed down the sink . It 's my understanding that they 're fairly expensive ( a couple thousand dollars US ) , but the fines for not having one installed may be even more , and they wo n't let new restaurants open without one .
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
That white stuff is albumen , the same protein that makes the white of chicken eggs . The albumen is part of the salmon 's blood , which means that your fillet was fresh . A trick for dealing with it was developed by Bruno Goussault while collaborating with chef Michel Richard from Citronelle in DC : soak the salmon pieces in an ice cold brine . The <URL> that told the story recommends soaking the salmon fillets for ten minutes in a 10 % brine ( by weight ) . To make the <URL> , dissolve three tablespoons of Kosher salt for every cup of ice cold water and make as many cups as you need .
French presses work pretty well for cold brewed coffee . Just put the coffee and the water in and let it " brew " for a long period of time , then press it down to remove the grounds . <URL> .
<URL> Sugar balances both salty and sour flavors in dishes . Adding just a little sugar makes salty things taste less salty and sour things taste less sour , without actually reducing the amount of salt or acid in the recipe . For example , the liquid base of the Pad Thai recipe I follow contains chili powder , fish sauce , tamarind , and light palm sugar . The palm sugar balances out the sour from the tamarind and the salt from the fish sauce . Without it , the noodles would come out too sour and too salty . I do n't know the physiological reasons for this . Would be interesting to hear them if someone knew ...
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
Yes , saurkraut can go bad . It is a fermented product , protected from other micro-fauna growing by the acidity of the juice , a natural pickle created during the fermentation . Having the juice cover the solids is important to protect them from spoilage . If the juice gets diluted , or there simply is not enough to cover the kraut do to spillage , being eaten or whatever , then molds and other things can colonize and begin to grow . Throw your saurkraut away if it shows signs of mold , or if it has an unusual odor . Still , because of the pickle , it should have a long shelf life in practice . <URL> suggests six months , refrigerated .
The notion that salt or spices specifically do n't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me . In any recipe involving salt and water , the salt is dissolved , so all that matters is the concentration , and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling . Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x . When you take into account that : Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat , humidity , and other environmental conditions , so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale ; Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio ; that part is correct , but it has nothing to do with salt , it has to do with your equipment . On the stovetop , most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction , and even in an oven you 've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern . Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation . The total amount of heat you 're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver , so very often you need to increase cooking times . I 'm sure you probably already know all this , but the reason I 'm pointing it all out is that I 'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues . Probably , salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes , and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time , so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy , especially with volumetric measurements , is actually pretty noticeable at large scale . Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense . Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements , and you scale by weight , then you 're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly . I suppose I could be wrong , but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry ; you 'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true .
You can heat clarified butter to a higher temperature for two reasons -- you remove the milk solids , which can burn , and you remove the water , which will boil at 100 ° C and cause spattering . In baking , clarified butter 's lack of water means that it ca n't develop gluten as you would with simple melted butter . It 's actually more similar to other oils than it is to melted butter when baking . In the case of ghee , my understanding is that because it 's from a warm country , part of the reason for making it was as a preservative , as the ghee would have a longer shelf-life ( months ) than standard butter in the local climate .
I 've never really considered there to be a real difference between sautéing and frying . They both mean to cook in a hot pan with a little bit of fat . However there is n't a lot of consistency online . It does n't look like there 's any sort of definitive answer here . Some points of view : <URL> , although frying might involve slightly more oil . The terms are essentially interchangeable . This is the top hit on a google search " sauteing frying " ( although this question is on the first page ! ) . <URL> , sautéing involves jumping the food while frying involves a little more oil and less flipping or stiring of the food . Here 's <URL> for this definition . This definition makes a delineation between pan frying and shallow frying . <URL> and involves partially submerging the food in oil . Food is normally breaded first . There 's no distinction between frying and shallow frying . This is Martha Stewart 's definition . As you can see , it 's really all over the map , and that was just from the first page of the google results . I think we 're getting in to issues with language changing beneath us . However , I think the safest bet is probably that sautéing involves a lot of stirring , frying does n't , and I should consider refining my own definitions . Caramelizing ( which fortunately does n't have any of the same confusion ) is a process that happens during cooking when sugar oxidizes . There are many different ways that you can achieve this effect . One of the ways is to sauté or fry ( depending on your definition ) something until the water sweats out and the remaining sugar heats up . So the answer is that you are caramelizing the onions by sautéing ( or maybe frying ) them .
The reasons people still roast whole birds are : Roasting a whole chicken is easier than butterflying it . While it 's not tough to butterfly a chicken many people do n't know how , or do n't want the cleanup It 's less prep time to roast a whole chicken . If you are busy you can have it from the fridge to the oven in less than a minute , while butterflying or jointing it is n't super-quick Aesthetics : some people like the look of a whole chicken on the table
According to <URL> : The meat of sheep 6 to 10 weeks old is usually sold as baby lamb , and spring lamb is from sheep of five to six months .
I would recommend staying away from a grater and either using a knife or a chocolate chipper ( http://www.amazon.com/Lee-43198-Chocolate-Chipper/dp/B00005NUVX ) . The less friction and the more you keep your hands off it ( because your hand will melt it as you have discovered ) the better .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
end question
start question
How to fry carnitas ?
Kenji Alt has devoted one of his <URL> columns to carnitas . The key to his method is he cooks the pork in a manner akin to confit , under fat in the oven . This low and slow method makes it tender and flavorful . Then , he broils it before service to crisp up .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
Basically it all depends on temperature : Every fat or oil has a specific smoke point ( <URL> ) , at which temperature it starts to degrade . That means , not all oils are suitable for every heat , or all types of frying . Some types of oil should remain " cold " , like extra-virgin olive oil . Butter has a rather low smoke point ( 325-375 ° F or 163-190 ° C ) due to milk solids . So , frying with butter is a bit tricky temperature-wise , but often butter is choosen for taste . ( Clarified butter , on the other hand , has a smoke point of ca. 485 ° F or 252 ° C , which makes it usable for pan - or deep-frying . The taste is somewhat similar to butter , but not equal . ) As eggs are typically fried at a " low " temperature , using butter is fine . An example from the opposite end of the heat range would be asian cuisine , where food is prepared in a wok at very high heat . ( I wo n't give recommendations what to use &amp; when , as there are subtle differences , even between brands . If in doubt , read the label . ) So , to cut a long story short : Decide what you want to do , how hot your pan is going to be and pick the matching oil .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
You could certainly get a cookbook of side dishes and learn some new favourites , but what might be more useful is a book that teaches you about flavour combinations and menu planning . I would suggest <URL> as one such book . It 's not about specific recipes ( you can find those elsewhere or make them up ) , but rather it addresses the kind of skill you 're looking to learn . One technique is to consider the origin of the main dish and choose side dishes from the same region . Seasonality or market-based shopping is another approach to expanding your repertoire .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
Although ours rarely lasts for more than a week , we typically just store it in an airtight container with the rest of the cereal . I would imagine the fat could eventually go rancid , so if you need to store it for weeks or months , either refrigeration or freezing should work . You 'll still want the airtight container , however , to prevent any fridge funk from tainting the taste .
Low and slow is the only way to go , I 'm afraid . You can add some broth and simmer them down ( as opposed to just cooking them in oil ) but make sure you add little enough that it will all evaporate ... Do n't want to be pouring off flavor .
Curing salts contain sodium nitrite or sodium nitrate . When these curative agents are combined with the amines in meat and exposed to high heat they form carcinogenic compounds called <URL> . As the linked article states , commercial producers often add Vit . C to counteract some of the nitrosamine formation , but the curing mix you have might not include it for economic reasons .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
<URL> recommends that you wrap the scallions ( or green onions ) in plastic wrap , and that site also says they 'll last 7-10 days that way . I actually wrap them in a damp paper towel and then in plastic wrap . I keep this little packet in the crisper drawer . I 've kept them about 2 weeks this way . Either way , each time you open the packet you should check for damaged parts and discard them .
The other answers touch on the fact that its the release of water from the turkey that interacts with the oil , causes the oil to overflow , and then ignite the burner . Generally , this happens pretty shortly after you put the turkey in ( due do any moisture on the outside of the bird ) . To do it safely do n't bank on the fact that you 've removed all the water - do two additional things : Do it outside . In the event something bad happens , better to lose some grass on the lawn than your house . If you do n't have space outside , you can always go to a public park or such . It may seem like a pain but turkey frying should not be done inside . There 's one absolutely surefire way to ensure than you do n't catch the burner on fire by accident . Do n't have it on ! Prep your turkey . Have it dry on the outside and completely thawed . Heat your oil outside . Turn the burner off Lower the turkey into the hot oil Wait 1-2 minutes or so , most of the initial contact between water and oil should over by now . Turn the burner back on and cook the turkey . Also make sure the burner is off while taking the turkey out , just to prevent any spills from becoming terrible . @ChrisWalker , below in the comments , also provides a method for making sure you do n't put too much oil in the pot and thus cause a spill over .
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
Yes . You can either use aluminum foil that has been lightly sprayed with some Pam or rubbed with butter OR a piece of parchment paper cut into a larger circle than the pie . It will create an overhang that you can use to pull out the weights or beans . If you try to bake it with the beans on the surface it will cook directly into the dough and your shell will be ruined . I still prick the bottom of the crust because steam and air will still be trapped underneath the pie weights . When you remove the weights to finish the baking of the crust , if it has not been pricked you could still end up with pockets and air bubbles as that part of the crust is still a bit raw .
I 've eaten from the creme brulee cart in San Francisco before , which is basically a food cart that sells nothing but . They 're presented in one-serving disposable aluminum ramekins and the crunchy top comes from caramelizing as people order . I 've seen similar in bakeries and restaurants that sell creme brulee to go . Presumably this is far easier than cutting up large batches or trying to come up with ways that do n't melt styrofoam ! :) More pics from the cart : <URL>
To answer my own question , after experiencing , once cooked , the brik stays crisp for over a week .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
end question
start question
What is the " Chili sauce " ingredient in this recipe ?
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
I 've accidentally run my scoop , a Zeroll with conductive fluid inside the handle , through the dishwasher . I do n't know this for a fact because I did n't cut mine open to check , but I believe what happened to mine ( and what 's happened to yours ) is that the fluid is meant to work at normal body temperature and when it gets too hot , like in a dishwasher , it solidifies . That 's the clunking sound , the now-solid conductive liquid . So while it still works as a scoop , the conductive fluid is no longer doing its job and scooping will be a little harder . I definitely noticed that after mine went through the dishwasher .
A <URL> perhaps ? I 've no luck finding the term for your specific description , but that seems to be an umbrella term for utensils that basically hold something so you can more easily grill it .
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
I am not sure if you are confusing roasting with charring but both are the same basically , though roasting the pepper by charring the skin would be a more accurate nomenclature . Roasting brings smokiness to the pepper and softens its bite . It allows you to remove skin more easily . When you char the outside of dried peppers in a dry skillet with spices , then soak , it allows you to remove the pith more constructively than tearing it open and it adds depth to the flavor . For fresh peppers they become somewhat less spicy , for dried peppers it allows them a more expressive flavor ( think of roasted sesame or pumpkin seeds or coffee beans for a comparison ) . Roasted peppers add a different dynamic than their raw counterpart and you should definitely look into the difference ( if you enjoy chipotles end adobo you already have a taste for them without knowing it ) .
Most of the weight in fresh fruit is water , which has no calories . When you dry the fruit , the remainder is concentrated , so there are more calories in a given volume or weight . <URL> is a preservative with anti-microbial properties . The claim of 3.6 times the energy is specious .
Parsley is both a flavoring herb and a decorative element for plating the finished dish . By adding it during the cooking , it imparts flavor to the shrimp . By adding it to the finished dish , it provides color and flavor . The cooked parsley will have a slightly different taste to it than the fresh parsley . This is how cooks layer the flavors in a dish . TB stands for Tablespoon .
To taste is one of those awesome cooking terms that trips people up all the time . To taste does not mean to what tastes good to you , although you can use that as a determination and your dish should still come out fine for most people . To taste means that you add salt ( or whatever ) while tasting the dish and you slowly add until the seasoning tastes perfect . To properly do this you are going to have to train your palate , but luckily it not that hard to do . As a matter of fact , we have a pretty good way to learn it right <URL> The end result you are trying to achieve is the point where food tastes the most like it 's self with out adding to much , this the small increments . The important part to remember is that " to taste " is where your food lives . It 's the thing that is unique to you and a part of what makes every dish you make an expression .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
While almost every fruit and berry contains right yeasts on its peel , according to <URL> article people prefer to make wine from grape due to right acidity , sugar and tannins contents . I also can assume the grape was easier to process manually at almost every stage from collecting to juicing .
Authenticity is often in question when it comes to curry . Korma covers a fairly broad range of South/Central Asian curries , their common feature being their creaminess . The creaminess can come from cream , coconut cream , yoghurt , or ground nuts - or a mixture of these . In the case of ground nuts , water might be added to add liquidity , although you may be surprised at how much liquid nuts contain . Just think how gloopy peanut butter can be .
This is called fruit leather . But I have never made it and can not comment on how to make it less chewy . I have eaten it though , and if my memory serves me right it was quite chewy and it most definitely got stuck in my teeth . Maybe it can not be avoided . Also , if you are cooking it at a low temperature ( I assume you are well below the boiling point ) the sugars will not caramelize . ( EDIT : Apparently , sugars will caramelize at low temperatures , but it will take a long time , see the comment by jkadlubowska below ) For that , much higher temperatures are needed . You are simply drying out the purée to the point where it becomes " leathery " . From a bit of googling it seems that 140 degrees F is the correct oven temperature to use .
This really is n't a good substitution . Think of the difference between fresh peas and dried split peas - they are two completely different products . But if you are really set on doing this , simply soak and cook the dried limas like you would any other dried bean , then add the fully cooked lima at the same stage that that recipe calls for the fresh beans .
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
Sauteed onions can provide both caramel flavors ( from the sugars in the onions ) and <URL> , depending on how they are sauteed . Thus onions can supply a range of " umami " flavors for soup which otherwise you need to get through roasting animal bones and other tissue ( e.g. brown veal stock ) . Of course , even beef stocks often add onion as well for extra flavor . As an extreme example of this , I often prepare a vegetarian French Onion soup using a meat-free broth made entirely from onions , onion skins , and cheese rind . Blind tasters often fail to distinguish it from a store-bought beef stock . You can get a lot of the same flavors from combinations of other browned vegetables , but onions neatly supply a perfect package of flavor compounds in one inexpensive , long-keeping root vegetable . Why use anything else ?
In Rome I was informed that I was eating a croissant with honey on top ( after informing my host that I had a honey allergy ) . It had the sweetness that I suspect you 're experiencing . To help you determine if we were trying the same thing : the croissant I had was shiny and slightly sticky on top , and it seemed more like it was brushed on top rather than drizzled . That would support @Carmi 's answer that it was brushed on with the egg . It was definitely honey , though , not sugar syrup .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
REDACTED . Botulism growth is inhibited at pH of 4.6 or lower . The pH of this recipe is lower than 4.6 because of the vinegars . <URL> After re-reading the recipe , I think the OP is right . This is not the safest recipe out there . For a great pickling recipe that is safe , try this : <URL>
Cacio e Pepe is a great traditional roman dish ( I 'm roman ! ) . The ingredients are : pecorino cheese , 160g for 4 people ( I use <URL> , but you can use an equivalent sheep ( not cow ) cheese ) . Freshly ground black pepper olive oil ( optional ) Boil the pasta in salted water . In the meantime heat some olive oil in a pan . Keep in a little bowl some pasta cooking water and drain the pasta about one minute before the suggested cooking time ( it will continue the cooking in the pan ) . Put the pasta in the pan and add the cheese and some cooking water , about two ladles ( the starch will help to bind the cheese and make the sauce creamy ) , whisk for a minute . Add a lot of pepper . Another way to do that is to whisk directly in an hot bowl ( or in an hot dish , but it 's a little harder ) , to use this methodology I suggest you to see <URL> , it 's in italian but there are a lot of pictures ( plus google translate ) .
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
end question
start question
Why ca n't this ice cream scoop go in the dishwasher ?
I 've accidentally run my scoop , a Zeroll with conductive fluid inside the handle , through the dishwasher . I do n't know this for a fact because I did n't cut mine open to check , but I believe what happened to mine ( and what 's happened to yours ) is that the fluid is meant to work at normal body temperature and when it gets too hot , like in a dishwasher , it solidifies . That 's the clunking sound , the now-solid conductive liquid . So while it still works as a scoop , the conductive fluid is no longer doing its job and scooping will be a little harder . I definitely noticed that after mine went through the dishwasher .
Simple : it has no water . Chocolate is a suspension of cocoa solids and sugar in cocoa butter . It is made from fat and carbohydrates only . Bacteria , as everything else , need water to live . They ca n't survive in something hygroscopic ( like jam or honey ) or something with no water at all ( flour , chocolate , pure fat ) . Similar for molds . So , independent of temperature , chocolate wo n't go bad in the sense that it will never grow colonies of bacteria . As Hobodave mentioned , it can " grow bad " in another sense . If held at high temperatures ( somewhat above 30 ° C ) , the chocolate butter will separate from the mix and form a dull yellow-grayish crust on the chocolate surface . Also , if you leave it in contact with oxygen for long enough ( many months ) , the cocoa fat will go rancid . In both cases , it is perfectly safe to eat the chocolate without risking food poisoning . However , the taste is much worse than in normal chocolate .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
My guess would be that you boiled the soup at some point , possibly for an extended period of time . If you bring it to a full boil the fat from the meat will emulsify and distribute itself through the liquid . This is the same stuff that foams to the top , the " scum " that a lot of recipes ( usually ones that say bring to a boil , then simmer ) tell you to skim off . I would venture to say that this distribution of the fat into the liquid is also why it tasted heavier . When making stock or soups , the most I 'll heat them is to just below boiling and keep them at that simmer for a little longer to make up for not bringing it to a boil . When making stock , I strain once through a chinois and again through a piece of cheesecloth in a chinois to help reduce the floating particulates , but this wo n't really solve the cloudiness problem ( though it will help some ) . You can also try putting it into the fridge overnight so that the fat comes to the top and solidifies , but I do n't think this will solve the problem , only help reduce it . If it 's just the stock that 's gone cloudy , <URL> has some suggestions on how to clarify it , but honestly unless you 're presenting it to guests , I see no reason to even bother . I 've made cloudy stock and clear stock before and except for a slight " heaviness " difference , the taste is generally about the same . The cloudy stock sometimes has a more oily mouth feel , but it 's not a major difference - and I 've found some people seem to prefer the soups or rices I make with a cloudy stock . If you have a hard time controlling the temperature on your range-top , you can use an oven-safe stock pot and cook it in the oven at 180 & deg ; F to keep it just below a boil . One other trick , depending on what kind of soup you were making - if you were making ( for example ) chicken soup , consider trying to turn it into a cream of chicken soup to hide the cloudy broth :)
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
I do n't think I 've ever even had hot buttered rum , but I can take a stab at some of your questions : 1 part ice cream and 2-3 parts boiling water will still average out pretty hot . If the ice cream is at , say , -20 to -10 C , that 'll get you in the 60-70C range initially , which is I think fairly normal for hot drinks . And of course , if you keep it in the refrigerator instead , your drink will be hotter ! I suspect mixing ice cream with butter will help it all mix together better in the end , by helping disperse the fat . Ground spices are n't going to need a ton of steeping . I imagine the boiling water would be enough , and if not , the pre-cooking could easily compensate . And since some recipes just have nutmeg sprinkled on top , it sounds like steeping is n't necessarily the goal . If you 're really aiming for spiced hot buttered rum , you 'll probably want more spices than those recipes , and perhaps to cook them briefly with the butter . If you intend to freeze the " batter " , including ice cream will help keep it soft enough to scoop/slice . If it were just butter and sugar , it 'd get quite hard in the freezer . Yes , the milk/cream content of the ice cream would make the drink a little creamier - but I do n't know whether hot buttered rum should be a bit creamy . It sounds like it 'd be fine either way - personal preference , perhaps ?
Properly wrapped , the extra insulation would not have been the cause of higher than normal ice formation ( freezer burn ) . What I suspect might have happened here is that putting it outside in the cold caused all of the steam to condense on the surface of your mac &amp; cheese , resulting in you bagging damper than usual mac &amp; cheese .
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
They go into soup . Or pot pies . Or any of the other myriad industrially produced canned or frozen foods which require chicken stock or chicken flavoring and sometimes canned chicken meat . The millions of cans of Campbell 's have to come from somewhere :-) For smaller home chicken farmers , they probably end up in the stock pot . If you know people who keep backyard flocks , they may be willing to sell you their culls for a very reasonable price .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
Soft serve ice cream is soft because : It 's warmer than hard ice cream . According to <URL> , it 's generally made at about -4 C , rather than -15 C for hard ice cream . It 's also served at a higher temperature -- <URL> , compared to 5 to 7 degrees F for hard ice cream . It contains more air . The technical term for air introduced during freezing is <URL> , and it 's calculated based on the percent increase in volume of the ice cream . The more air , the fluffier and softer the mouth-feel . It usually contains <URL> than hard ice cream , which is mitigated by the soft creamy mouth-feel resulting from the warmer temperature . If you were to freeze soft ice cream , you 'd lose the advantage of item 1 . In addition , your freezer takes longer to freeze ice cream than an ice cream maker , which may result in ice crystals in the ice cream . Furthermore , once the soft ice cream chills to the freezer temperature ( usually around 0F ) , the lower fat content may decrease the perceived creaminess , because of the information in item 3 . Of course , having said all of that , I have n't tried the experiment , so I 'd be interested in hearing first hand stories .
I 've accidentally run my scoop , a Zeroll with conductive fluid inside the handle , through the dishwasher . I do n't know this for a fact because I did n't cut mine open to check , but I believe what happened to mine ( and what 's happened to yours ) is that the fluid is meant to work at normal body temperature and when it gets too hot , like in a dishwasher , it solidifies . That 's the clunking sound , the now-solid conductive liquid . So while it still works as a scoop , the conductive fluid is no longer doing its job and scooping will be a little harder . I definitely noticed that after mine went through the dishwasher .
" Sea Salt ice cream " is the one I 've heard about . It 's literally flavored by sea salt . Online recipes are often themed around the game series Kingdom Hearts , in which a main character enjoys this treat . That ought to be enough to help your search :)
Well , if it was a boat , you 'd swab it every few days ( " swab the desk " ) so it stayed wet and swollen . You could also treat the bucket with a food-grade mineral oil . You can find it in most kitchenware stores for protecting cutting boards . The oil will evaporate much slower than water will , but it will still evaporate . You might try putting the whole thing in a large plastic bag or similar container , so whatever moisture evaporates stays in the air surrounding the bucket , slowing further moisture loss ... but moist , stagnant air is n't good for long periods of time , either , as you could end up with mold that would be even more annoying to deal with . Or , as the bucket 's only touching the ice &amp; salt mix , and not coming in direct contact with food , you could always use wood treatments available from any hardware store . update : I was reading up on walnut oil , and wikipedia linked to a woodworker <URL> for finishing wood that would come in contact w / food , but that you should re-coat each year . I assume the beeswax would give it longer durability as compared to straight mineral oil sold for cutting boards .
When I first got my iSi I had wildly inconsistent results , including exactly what you 're describing . I 'm not sure if you 're just whipping cream or if you 're whipping other cream-based preparations , but the most common reason for this happening is that the liquid going in is n't quite , er , liquid . Any solid particles of any kind will almost assuredly cause sputtering , which is why they recommend that you strain everything through a fine sieve . Other things I 've learned about the iSi whippers to help prevent these inconsistent results : Ignore everything the instructions tell you about how to charge it . They 're somewhere between very misleading and complete nonsense . What I actually do is this : Screw on a charger as described . Shake it vigorously , as if it were a cocktail shaker . Let it rest for a moment , then shake again . Repeat the shaking 4-5 times . Finally , remove the charger and screw the cap back on . The instructions are full of ominous warnings about not being able to discharge it properly if you shake it too much because the nozzle will get blocked or something . Never happened . What 's far more likely is that the cream does n't actually whip fully or there are large air pockets . Do not err on the side of caution here ; many " external " iSi recipes such as those you find in the HRC actually tell you to shake frequently as the dispenser chills . I 'm not sure if I 'd do this with cream ( as opposed to a water-based foam ) but I ca n't stress this enough , do n't skimp on the shaking . If you need to chill it some more after charging , make sure to chill it on its side . The instructions are quite explicit about this and in this case they 're actually correct . Shake it again after you chill it and before you dispense any . This is very important and conspicuously absent from the instructions . You should n't need to shake as much as the first pass , but some of the gas does seem to separate over time . Start by dispensing the cream very , very slowly , until you actually see some come out , then you can apply more pressure as needed . If you squeeze the trigger as hard as you can right off the bat , you 'll just end up depressurizing the thing before any cream has a chance to come out . Every single time I 've pulled too hard , I 've ended up with spatters . Finally , make sure that you actually thoroughly clean it all between uses , including the tiny horizontal hole in the metal tube that you screw the tips onto ( I forget what it 's called ) as well as the socket that piece goes into . Any blockages whatsoever , no matter how small , can cause at least minor sputtering . Hope some of that helps . If you do all of that , you should n't have any sputtering issues . Last 7 or 8 times I 've used mine , I have n't had any .
You could serve it with a lemon curd tart , making sure to keep down the amount of sugar in the curd . Or just some lemon sorbet , that would also go well I think .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
You want to make a " mint infusion " . Googling this will give you many recipes . Basically you brew the mint like herbal tea : Remove stems , Bruise the leaves a little , Add the leaves to a cup of very hot water , Let steep for a few minutes , strain and throw away the mushy leaves and use the liquid for your flavoring . The liquid will be brown as you are destroying the chlorophyll that makes the leaves green . In most applications I add food coloring to fix this . As you are making chocolate mint ice cream this should not be a problem . Save some of your mint leaves to use as a garnish . I love chocolate mint and I am very excited for you having a bumper crop of it .
A great resource for how long foods can be kept is <URL> . <URL> , commercially bottled pickles ( and kimchee would fall into this category ) can be kept after opening for one year in the refrigerator .
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
end question
start question
What tools are needed for making wafer cookies ?
Perhaps you can use one these ? <URL> Buying one these might be little over the top : <URL> <URL>
For burgers I buy 2-3 different cuts - usually some sirloin and the end of a tenderloin ( fattier and cheaper ) and whatever else looks good . Slice thinly and stick in the freezer for 20 mins or so before you start grinding . I then mix in some finely minced onion and garlic , salt , pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce ( all optional and to taste ) before grilling .
Use only good beef , salt and pepper . The beef should be a good fatty cut , with a ratio of 80 % meat , 20 % fat . Chuck is ideal . Any good butcher should grind it to order for you . You need to keep the ground meat as cold as possible , to prevent the fat melting out of it before you cook it . Do not salt the beef prior to shaping , just use pepper . Shape your burgers , then put them in the fridge for a couple of hours . Generously salt the outside of the burgers about 1 hour before cooking . Get a good pan ( preferably a cast iron griddle ) really , really , really hot . Brush one side of the burger with vegetable oil , then slap it on the grill . DO NOT PRESS IT WITH THE SPATULA , EVER . You squeeze out all the juice . Turn the burger and cook the other side . Timing will depend on how you like your burger . A good way of testing doneness is to insert a thin metal skewer into the centre of the burger from one side ( not the top ) , leave it for a few seconds , then take it out and touch it carefully to your lip . If it 's hot , it 's just about done . Or if you have a good digital thermometer , use that .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
I 've been making rum-based vanilla extract successfully at home for years . Here are my recommendations . Your basic ingredients are 80 proof rum , sugar and vanilla beans . At the recommended proportions , the rum and sugar are plenty effective preservatives . You can use either light or dark rum , but it should be a good " call " 80 proof rum and not a bargain bottom shelf rum . I most often use Ron Rico . If you use a golden rum , your extract will have a warmer taste suitable for spicy treats such as pumpkin pie or spice cookies . If you use a silver rum , your vanilla will have a purer taste suitable for whipped cream or custard sauces . I get rum that is bottled in glass , because I think plastic imparts an off flavor . Your basic recipe will use a fifth less about a 1/2 cup of rum , four vanilla beans and 1/2 cup of organic sugar . We 'll go through that first , and then talk about variations . Place your vanilla beans on a clean , flat cutting surface . Using a small , sharp knife , cut them first in 1/2 crosswise at the middle . Then take each 1/2 bean and insert the knife tip just 1/2 to an inch below the uncut end and carefully slice lengthwise to the send . Repeat this process gently and carefully on each piece unti each piece has four lengthwise quarters attached at the uncut end . Some recipes will tell you to scrape some or all of the paste out of the beans , but this is not necessary . The simply split beans will infuse the rum just fine . Pour out about a cup of rum from your fifth and set aside . Put your sliced vanilla beans into the rum . Use a funnel to add 1/2 cup of organic sugar . Use the reserved rum you set aside to top the bottle back up . Recap the bottle and give it about 20 shakes to encourage the sugar to dissolve . Set aside in a dark cabinet or pantry . Take it out and give it a few shakes every week or so . Your vanilla will be usable but not fully extracted in about two months . It will continue to strengthen in flavor out to about 6 months of age . Once you are satisfied with your extract , you can decant some and bottle it up in smaller bottles . It 's a very popular gift for bakers . Once you have tried vanilla extract made this way , you will never want to go back to store-bought . The difference is indescribable . You can vary the type of rum you use , silver or gold , and you can vary the sugar . I mostly stick with light organic sugar , because I think the taste is better . I like the combination of dark rum and brown organic sugar very well . You can also increase the sugar up to about 2/3 cup in a fifth bottle , but I would n't go above that . Sugar gives the extract more body and mellows the flavor . Check out Wikipedia to learn more about the various kinds of vanilla beans available . I use the organic ones from my food coop , but different kinds can be ordered online or found at specialty food stores . A number of cooking blogs have instructions on making extracts or tinctures of other spices . There is no reason not to create combination flavors .
I have n't been able to find any empirical data , but here are my theories : Most cookies contain butter which has similar proteins as milk and the combination of the two resonates on that level . Soy milk does not share those protein profiles , so there is no sensory resonance . Cookies are generally quite sweet and rich . Milk helps blunt that sweetness by washing away some of the sugar and coating the tongue . Many soy milks have sweeter taste than dairy milk which would make the overall sweetness of the combination excessive . ( For comparison 's sake does your roommate use soy milk on sweetened cereals or more neutral-tasting cereals ? I would suspect the latter . ) In addition to the natural " grassy " flavors that soy milks can have , they may also have other flavorants like vanilla that make them less neutral flavored than dairy milk which competes with the flavor of the cookies .
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
To some extent , this is a question to which the answers are necessarily quite subjective . However , as a general guideline , I would suggest that you look at the bread as just another ingredient in the dish -- not as somehow distinct from the filling choices . Like any other ingredient pairing , you can evaluate the characteristics and choose things to complement each other . So if you pick your bread first , evaluate if it 's rich or mild , savoury or sweet , dense or light , crusty or soft , thin or thick , etc , and then choose fillings to complement those properties . For your fillings , there 's not only the flavour pairing of the filling and the bread to consider , but also the texture/properties of the filling . A dry filling might not be as pleasant on a dense bread because the texture would be too much the same . Similarly , a saucy filling needs an appropriate bread selection to contain it and make it easy to eat . Many pairings that are considered standard will just taste " good " to us because of tradition and familiarity , but originally , someone probably put them together for a reason . That does n't mean it 's not worth trying something different , though . With the globalization of cuisine , we have many more filling/bread choices available and you might find a new favourite by pairing a bread from one culture with a filling from another , based on their complementary qualities .
Remember that veal is merely very young beef ; the chuck ( which is the beef equivalent to the pork shoulder ) is probably your best choices . The chuck naturally has that best proportion of muscle to fat for sausage making . That said I would actually discourage you from choosing veal as a meat for sausage making , ground veal is [ IMHO ] really ' nothing special ' in terms of flavor . Veal 's ' specialness ' is in its tenderness , which is irrelevant in a sausage . You would be better served to use an mature beef chuck from an angus or longhorn . Lamb would also be a nice ancient flavor .
You are missing the tiny detail that metal is not the only material which can provide sharp , cutting edges . The reason the Stone Age got its name was the use of stone for tools . Both <URL> stone and <URL> , a volcanic glass can splinter with razor-sharp edges . Both the raw material and the tools made from them were highly prized goods and mined and traded in prehistoric times . Even today , <URL> are still used for some surgical procedures , especially in cosmetic surgery . What works for a face lift in Hollywood should easily be good enough for pemikan - not that I 'm comparing the two tasks . Failing to obtain the stones , bone knifes from long leg bones would also have been able to handle the task of cutting thin meat strips quite smoothly . Not for the squeamish : This <URL> shows the butchering of a deer with a simple , hand made obsidian " knife " . This <URL> compares a flint and a bone knife .
I would use any uncolored brandy made from distilled fruit . Himbeergeist , sliwowitz , or what you can lay your hands on . Kirsch does n't taste much like cherries , and I suspect that it functions more as a solvent for some of the aroma in the spices than for adding its own taste . Even though it does contribute a bit , the taste will be subtle , and other slight fruity notes from a different fruit brandy will blend with the heavy spices just as well . In a pinch , you could use a colored brandy too , like Chantre . But it will add more of its own flavor , and while it can make a good combination , it will be further from the original than a random obstwasser . I would avoid any liqueurs , they will add way too much foreign taste , and also wo n't have enough alcohol to solve the spices in the same way .
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
Sweet and sour red cabbage , cuts through the richness of the goulash very nicely - particularly if you cook some thin slices of tart apples with the cabbage . The vinegar also turns the cabbage vivid purple which also adds a nice contrast to earthy goulash . I found this recipe that is almost identical to my mom 's ( although I probably would opt out of using the clove ) : <URL>
As for judging crumb , my favorite two terms used by German Meister Bakers are juicy ( saftig ) and woolly ( wollig ) . The first , praise for tarter breads such as sour rye ; the second for toast bread and lunch rolls . An unflattering term would be cotton ( Baumwolle ) for flavorless and dry fluff .
This recipe ! found <URL> , calls for buttermilk or sour cream . Perhaps you can find sour cream . Crème fraîche 1 cup heavy or whipping cream , room temperature 1 tablespoon buttermilk or 1/2 cup sour cream , room temperature In a jar with a lid , place whipping cream and buttermilk ( or sour cream ) ; cover securely and shake 15 seconds . Set aside at room temperature for 24 hours or until very thick . Stir once or twice during that time . NOTE : Cream will thicken faster if the room is warm . Stir thickened creme fraiche well . Refrigerate at least 6 hours before serving . Cover tightly and store in refrigerator for up to 2 weeks .
Stock is made from bones only and broth is the liquid that meat has been simmered in . A well made stock should be clear without particles or cloudiness . Broth will usually be somewhat cloudy due to containing more dissolved proteins . Bones for lamb stock ( and any brown stock - veal can be made white or brown but lamb is usually brown ) are typically first roasted . The roasting will melt fat that may still be intact . After roasting bones for stocks such as lamb , veal , and duck you would then remove the bones from the roasting pan and roast the vegetables . You can use the residual fat for coating the vegetables prior to roasting . ( Just put vegetables in roasting pan and toss to coat with the fat ) . Fat from the bones will congeal on the top once the stock is chilled and you can then easily remove it . I would n't add or purposely leave chunks of fat attached to the bone as you just have to remove it later but what is there is n't a problem .
When making espresso with a machine , normally the ideal temp is around 200F . So I would most definitely not use cooler water . 175F is very hot for steaming milk -- for me that would be way over-steamed and scalded . Most of the resources I 've found say to steam to 150-160F . I 've actually found that even when the thermometer says 150F , it 's over-cooked for my tastes . What I do now is go by feel . I steam in a stainless pitcher and keep my fingertips on the sides . When it 's too hot for me to hold for more than a second or so , I stop .
Great question . the salt is not there for the taste of salt . A pinch of salt helps with the ionization process so your taste buds can pick up the tsate of the chocolate , ice cream , etc , better . I think this was discussed in an episode of Alton Brown 's Good Eats as well .
If you 're planning to smoke your sausages , natural casings will allow for greater smoke penetration than many non-natural casings , and they wo n't impart any odd flavors of their own to the meat . That said , when you first open a container of natural casings , they may have a strong smell because of gas build-up ; let them air out ( in the fridge ! ) and they 'll be fine .
There are actually two dishes being sold , and neither is " Phở " . The words that she yelled and had Gordon do the same were " Hủ tiếu , Bún riêu " . They are both noodle soups , the former is pork based broth , and the latter , porc and shrimp/crab with tomatoes . You can google the words for more info .
end question
start question
How do I cook chicken and asparagus over an open fire ?
You have two delicious choices . Both require a bed of coals , so I 'll start with that . You 'll need to build a fire with the logs stacked ' log cabin ' style , and let the fire burn down to coals . You want a deep red coal , just starting to darken on top . The coals should look something like this . You can bake , or bbq the chicken and asparagus . Both are delicious methods . To bake , wrap the chicken , asparagus and a starch like potato gratin style in layers of tinfoil . Use the starch around the outside , you 'll sacrifice a layer of it as some of it sticks/burns to the tinfoil . Put the most delicate item in the middle , in this case the asparagus , and the chicken around the asparagus . Add a generous amount of butter , salt and pepper and bake for about an hour buried in the coals . Corn or green beans are also very good , and can be sacrificed a little around the outside to preserve your meat and vegetables . I would layer it this way . Now , BBQ . You 'll do it very much like a charcoal BBQ . Keep the grate close to the coals , you can generally test the heat by holding your hand above the grate , you should only be able to keep your hand there for a second or two at most . Grill the chicken like you would on a bbq , and roast the asparagus on a cooler part of the grill . I 'd marinate both before putting them on the grill . I 'd also try to get an aromatic wood like hickory or mesquite , pine will impart a resinous taste .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
Soy chicken is usually available at Asian grocery stores that cater to an East Asian demographic . It is normally sold as " soy ham " or " veggie ham " , with " chicken " as one of the varieties available . It 's usually in a sort of log shape and you just cut it to whatever size you need . It is technically already cooked , but many recipes will call for it to be coated and baked , etc. .
Try freezing the oreos first and then cut with a sharp knife . Let the oreos warm to room temperature again . They will not lose any texture or crispiness . Update : In the name of science , I froze some oreos and tested the outcome . Freezing the oreos made the cutting much more ... achievable . A room temperature oreo just wants to crumble in too many places , but a frozen one holds together better .
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
It seems that the secret to re-heating rice is to use a little bit of liquid during the re-heating process . <URL> suggests adding 2 tbsp . of liquid per cup of cooked rice , and about 1 minute on high for each cup in a microwave ( 5 minutes flat for stovetop re-heating ) . Another thing it hints at , though does n't outright state , is that cooked rice should be stored in an airtight container separate from the food it is meant to go with - this is likely where I went wrong , and why my rice is always soggy and unpalatable . It also suggests that 2 hours is the maximum allowable time for cooked rice to be kept at room temperature , and that it can stay stored in the refrigerator between 4-6 days , or up to 6 months if frozen under ideal conditions .
First , as a gardener who 's grown these , I can tell you that acorn squash -- like all winter squash -- need to be left on the vine to ripen . After picking , they will get a little sweeter as they sit for a couple weeks , but if picked too early , they wo n't actually continue to ripen . That said , there 's no great trick to picking a good one . If you see some some orange color in the skin , it 's almost certainly ripe , though they can still be mature when all green , too . Ideally , you should be able to trust that the farmer harvested these properly , but if you 're getting unripened winter squash , someone probably screwed up out in the field . If you think the store gives a damn , it 's probably worth mentioning that you 're getting some bad ones .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
If I understand you correctly , you 're putting frozen chicken thighs in a glassware dish that 's been sprayed with Pam and then putting that into a 350F oven . Since the chicken will take quite a while to thaw and begin emitting juices that will cool the dish , that dish is going to rise to 350F fairly quickly . 350F is hot enough to begin smoking with many oils . Not sure about Pam 's smoke point , but I would bet that if you looked in the oven when the smoke alarm is going off , you 'll see smoke rising from the pan itself , not the chicken or the oven . Solution : Thaw the chicken before cooking or apply oil to the chicken but not the pan .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
You have two delicious choices . Both require a bed of coals , so I 'll start with that . You 'll need to build a fire with the logs stacked ' log cabin ' style , and let the fire burn down to coals . You want a deep red coal , just starting to darken on top . The coals should look something like this . You can bake , or bbq the chicken and asparagus . Both are delicious methods . To bake , wrap the chicken , asparagus and a starch like potato gratin style in layers of tinfoil . Use the starch around the outside , you 'll sacrifice a layer of it as some of it sticks/burns to the tinfoil . Put the most delicate item in the middle , in this case the asparagus , and the chicken around the asparagus . Add a generous amount of butter , salt and pepper and bake for about an hour buried in the coals . Corn or green beans are also very good , and can be sacrificed a little around the outside to preserve your meat and vegetables . I would layer it this way . Now , BBQ . You 'll do it very much like a charcoal BBQ . Keep the grate close to the coals , you can generally test the heat by holding your hand above the grate , you should only be able to keep your hand there for a second or two at most . Grill the chicken like you would on a bbq , and roast the asparagus on a cooler part of the grill . I 'd marinate both before putting them on the grill . I 'd also try to get an aromatic wood like hickory or mesquite , pine will impart a resinous taste .
The best thing I 've figured out about turning eggs is : do not do it too early . You need to wait for the cooked part of the egg to develop a strong texture before it will support its own weight . It 's very difficult to turn a floppy , soft egg , where it 's comparatively easy to flip an egg that has been cooked more completely on one side . I also use a relatively high heat , as this " crisps " the cooked surface . It also makes the egg more attractive . The spatula you use can make a difference , also , though I believe this is minor . The spatula you want is a plastic one with a relatively thin , flexible blade . The really heavy spatulas tend to be too tall , in my experience , and push the egg rather than sneak under it .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
You cooked it at too low a temperature . Sous vide is intended for meat where you want the protein to remain tender . It should n't have any sinews . Think chicken breasts , or the long filet along the spine of a pig . This meat gets nicely cooked at 60-65 ° C ( depends on the animal ) , and tough and dry above that . Meat marbled with sinews has to be cooked at a temperature where the sinews ( collagen ) melt into gelatin . This happens at about 70 ° C at least , and takes hours . Since the muscle fibres are already toughened at that temperature , there is no reason to hold it low ; you can put it at full boil in a normal pot and cook it there , you just have to wait long enough . In theory , you could do it in a sous vide bath too , but you wo n't get any of the benefits sous vide gives to tender meat .
If your chicken burns , the issue is likely not that you cooked it too long , but that you cooked it too hot . How long to cook it depends on the total amount of meat , the size of pieces that it is in ( anything from bite sizes pieces for a stir fry up to an entire chicken ) , and how you 're cooking it - oven , saute pan , braising ... Roasting in the oven or braising in a stew are generally the most ignorable techniques - if you overcook a roast it may dry out , but wo n't burn , and if you overcook a stew the meat ( especially chicken ) may dissolve into shreds but burning is less likely . Since undercooked chicken can be unsafe , you should choose cooking techniques that are sure to fully cook the chicken without burning it .
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
The only way to be completely sure is to contact Foster Farms and ask them what their packaging is made of and whether or not it is a totally airtight seal . Everything else is speculation . There are , however , two data points on which to speculate , both from their <URL> , and this is more broadly applicable to any company that distributes food this way : Can I freeze chicken in its original wrapper ? Yes , the original packaging is fine for freezing up to two months . For longer freezing , over-wrap packages with foil , plastic wrap , freezer paper or plastic bags . Generally something that 's been properly vacuum-sealed will last much longer than that . The above would seem to indicate that it is not completely airtight and may even allow a small amount of moisture to get through . What 's the best method for thawing frozen chicken or turkey ? [ ... ] You can also defrost in your microwave following the manufacturer 's instructions . Remove chicken from the original package , and place on a microwave safe dish to defrost . ( emphasis mine ) This pretty clearly indicates that it is not microwave-safe , and proper vacuum bags that are safe for sous-vide are generally also microwave safe ( even the cheapo FoodSaver products claim that you can boil , steam , or microwave in the bag ) . So I am leaning quite heavily toward no - I do n't think that the original packaging is safe for sous-vide , given the various other statements made by the company . But again , the best way to know for sure is to contact them directly .
end question
start question
What is the layer of grey stuff on the bottom of salmon ?
It is coagulated albumin leaked from the flesh of the fish . Not terribly inviting , but not harmful either .
There are three major things that will effect the " natural " shelf life of the compote , in that they could extend it considerably past the normal shelf life of the ingredients individually : How sweet is it ? If it is sufficiently sugary , to the level of a jam or jelly , the sugar in the compote will act as a preservative . This is because any bacteria or mold that try to colonize the product will be dessicated , as water exits their cells into the sugar medium via osmosis . The problem here is that sugar is hydrophylic , and will easily attract water from the environment when the jar is opened , or when a wet spoon is put into it . If the surface becomes diluted with water , and thus the sugar is less concentrated , mold can get a foothold . So this kind of product is best stored in the refrigerator once opened . How acid is it ? Very , very acidic foods are less hospitable to most pathogens . How salty is it ? This one does n't usually apply to compote recipes , but high enough salt levels also make foods inhospitable to most pathogens , again due to the dessication of their cells via osmotic pressure . The specific recipe you linked to -- at least the compote portion itself , excluding the vinegar syrup and the rest of the recipe -- appears to have none of the characteristics that lead to a long shelf life . It should be held no longer than its most vulnerable ingredient , which would be the weak sugar syrup , so it is probably good for several days to a week in the refrigerator . Now , in general , things named compotes tend to be far sweeter , and far more acidic than the recipe you have linked to . In these cases , as ElindilTheTall points out , a very , very sweet recipe ( jelly-like or jam-like sweetness ) will last for many weeks in the refrigerator , and a couple of weeks at least at normal room temperature . Finally , many compotes are amenable to home canning , if they are sufficiently acidic . Canning has risks , especially for botulism , so you should only use recipes and methods from a very reputable source when doing canning , to ensure that the product is sufficiently acidic to be safe for the canning method used . Follow all of the techniques and prescriptions in the methods , as well , but I wo n't turn this into an essay on canning , which is not my area of expertise . For those compotes that are properly canned , you should get an indefinite shelf life prior to opening , as long as the seal on the canning jar remains intact .
Make sure you flip it reasonably frequently ; that 'll actually make it come up to temperature faster inside , so the outside wo n't have as long to burn . Also make sure you have n't made your patties excessively thick . 10-15 minutes on medium sounds like a fairly long time for normal sized burgers , so possibly yours are on the thick side . If you do really want thick patties , you 're probably better off using a more gentle cooking method like the oven for some of the time . You can bake until nearly done , then sear to finish , or start with a sear then bake til done . Beyond that , if it 's burning on the outside before it 's done on the inside , the normal fix is to simply reduce the heat , so you cook more slowly , giving the heat time to reach the center without burning the outside . But at 10-15 minutes already , maybe you do n't want to go much slower !
A cooling rack serves two primary purposes . First , it allows the cookies ( or other baked good ) to cool faster by letting air circulate completely around the cookie . Second , it prevents the steam escaping from the cookies from soaking the bottoms , and other cookies placed on top .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
Kenji over at Serious Eats gives some of the best " pizza science " lessons on the Internet . Here 's a good article on the role of yeast and fermentation in pizza dough : <URL> In short , time and kneading cause proteins in dough to form an elastic network of fibers called gluten . Yeast consumes starch and emits carbon dioxide . Gluten traps the carbon dioxide which causes the dough to expand or " rise " . The amount of yeast and time may vary based on the intent of the cook . More time allows the cook to use less yeast ( the yeast organisms will multiply ) and allows for a greater development of the proteins in the wheat flour . A longer , slower rise will allow for the greatest flavor to be developed . In his tests , Kenji found the optimum rise time to be 2-3 days in a refrigerator . However , this must be balanced against the cook 's desire for an expedient dinner :-) In my personal pizza cooking , I usually use 1 packet of yeast ( 2.25 tsp ) for approximately 13 cups of flour . I will typically allow this to rise for around 24 hours on my kitchen counter-top ( my house says cold at around 55-60degF ) . If the dough will not be used right away , I will put it in the fridge but will allow it to warm to room temperature for several hours before cooking it . Good luck with your pies !
Dust the fruit with a little flour before adding to the cake . It will act like a glue and prevent the fruit from sinking .
There is a possible case that the butter is n't old . McGee writes that butter made from unpasteurized cream should be eaten within 10 days , else its unique aroma is lost . Maybe the addition of salt and/or other preservatives stretch that to over 20 days , or the manufacturer is being optimistic . On the other hand , even if the butter is old , there is no need for concern . Butter does n't catch germs or molds . It can go rancid , but this is a chemical change , which happens slowly . The affected parts are visible , and after removing them , there is no problem with the remaining butter - this is no invisible penetration as with mold . The butter must get really old ( maybe > 6 months ) to get small pockets of rancidity on the inside which are too much trouble to remove . And even if they are n't removed properly , eating small amounts of rancid butter is n't a health concern ( although the taste is ruined ) . Butter also does n't undergo signinficant changes when it ages - it is n't like eggs , which are good to eat for weeks , but behave differently when fresh . So eating old butter is n't worse than eating fresh butter ( with the exception of the raw-cream butter mentioned above ) . For these reasons , I would n't worry about the butter . Unless it was sold as raw cream butter , it is probably old stock . But it is still good to eat , and will be good to eat well past its stamped date . If it should develop an oxidized layer on the outside , just cutting it away will be good enough .
Graphics and quoted text from : <URL> Grains , by definition , have 3 major parts : the germ , the endosperm , and the bran . Whole grains are those that have all of the parts of the natural seed , or kernel ( not including an exterior husk that is generally inedible ) . To be called " Whole Grain " the product must still have all of the bran , endosperm and germ that it had when it was in the field , although it can milled , ground , cracked , natural , whatever ... as long as it still has all of its parts . If a food label states that the package contains whole grain , the " whole grain " part of the food inside the package is required to have the same proportions of bran , germ , and endosperm as the harvested kernel does before it is processed . Refining normally removes the bran and the germ , leaving only the endosperm . Without the bran and germ , about 25 % of a grain 's protein is lost , along with at least seventeen key nutrients . Processors add back some vitamins and minerals to enrich refined grains , so refined products still contribute valuable nutrients . This graphic shows what 's lost when wheat is refined , and what 's added back when it 's " enriched " : Durum is just a variety of wheat . Unless it specifically says " whole wheat " or " whole grain " , you can assume that it is refined .
The rind of Brie is <URL> it 's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste . You can eat it , or not , up to you : you are supposed to . If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it wo n't do you any harm .
There are many reasons for having a blender with selectable speeds : 1 ) Not every time you want to liquify or make a mush of your food ; quite the opposite , usually you want to keep a bit of texture into what you are blending . Thus , lower speed is better . 2 ) Blending heat up your ingredients , either by the friction of the blades and by the heating of the blender engine itself . Now , while it 's pretty difficult to ruin oils or many other things with the blender temperature , vegetables and fruits on the other hand are really sensible . So , as a generic rule of thumb , you always want to start with the lowest speed and then raise it up step by step ( my blender used to have 5 speed settings , for examples ) just as necessary . No point in running the blender at max speed by default . 3 ) The blender 's engine is built to blend things , and as obvious as it may sounds is maybe less obvious that the engine is not expected to runs free blending the air , because it can quickly burn and ruin itself : it actually needs ( and expect ) some kind of resistance from the food it 's blending . So , when you blend big and/or hard things , it 's advisable to do some on/first ( this is the reason for the pulse mode ) , then raise the speed , to not overheat the blender and to not give the blades too much energy . For example , if you are blending chickpeas , as they are pretty heavy and big if you go immediately at the highest speed all you will get will be chickpeas being hitten by the blades and just bouncing all around . If you lower the speed , the impact between the blades and the chickpeas will be less energic and the blades will have a chance to at least begin to scratch them ;-)
Not too surprisingly given where you found it , it 's called an <URL> in most parts of the world . In Israel , it 's just called a chopped salad or ( according to the wiki article - I never personally encountered this ) an Arab salad .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
It is coagulated albumin leaked from the flesh of the fish . Not terribly inviting , but not harmful either .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
Oh yes . Different people use different categories , no one system is canon , but this bit from <URL> is helpful ; I would n't hesitate to substitute within these categories . Dark and oil rich : anchovies , bluefin tuna , grey mullet , herring , mackerel ( Atlantic , Boston , or King ) , Salmon , farmed or King ( Chinook ) , sardines , skipjack tuna White , lean , and firm : Alaska pollock , catfish , grouper , haddock , Pacific cod , Pacific halibut , Pacific rockfish , Pacific sand dab &amp; sole , striped bass ( wild and hybrid ) , swordfish Medium color and oil rich : amberjack , Arctic char , Coho salmon , Hawaiian kampachi , mahimahi , paddlefish , pompano , Sockeye Salmon , wahoo , yellowfin tuna White , lean , and flaky : Atlantic croaker , black sea bass , branzino , flounder , rainbow smelt , red snapper , tilapia , rainbow trout , weakfish ( sea trout ) , whiting White , firm , and oil rich : Atlantic shad , albacore tuna , California white sea bass , Chilean sea bass , cobia , lake trout , lake whitefish , Pacific escolar , Pacific sablefish , white sturgeon You mention that you have successfully substituted halibut or tilapia for cod . This list puts tilapia in a different category than the other two . That illustrates that fish species substitution is a fuzzy thing , and a cook should n't feel bound by any list . Even within categories , any change in the choice of fish is going to change the final taste of the dish , either slightly or dramatically . That is n't necessarily a bad thing , in fact it can be a very good thing . Just as an aside , sustainability is a very good reason to substitute one species within a category for another . In the US these are to good sites to help choose a species : <URL> ; <URL> If anyone knows of good sites that provide good information about other parts of the world , please leave a comment . From leon , 2 good sites to help make sustainable choices in Australia : <URL> or <URL>
Typically that would be whatever was used for dusting the loaves or the bannetons , either flour , starch or sometimes <URL> . It is done to prevent sticking and for decorative purposes - often both : <URL> ( <URL> )
end question
start question
How to treat brik dough ?
To answer my own question , after experiencing , once cooked , the brik stays crisp for over a week .
The best recommendation I have seen is plain plastic wrap . If you have an oil mister , mist the wrap before using it . If you do n't , pour oil into a bowl , enough to form a puddle , and toss your ball of dough in the oil . Then transfer your dough to the rising container ( if you use the same bowl you used for oiling , take the dough out , pour out the superfluous oil , return the dough into the bowl ) . In the best case , the bowl will be deep enough for the dough to rise without the middle touching the wrap , but if it rises more ( even with the dough pressing against the wrap ) , dough with enough gluten development will peel off the oiled wrap with minimal losses , even if it is wet . The wrap will keep your dough surface moist in both the fridge and outside . It does n't allow breathing , but this should n't be a concern in most cases . If you overyeast the dough , the collection of fermentation byproducts in the bowl will probably make for worse taste than if they are allowed to dissipate , but the correct solution for this problem is to not produce them in the first place . With your " very long times " , this is probably not a problem in your case . You can also use this method for the secondary fermentation . But in the final proofing stage , you have to make sure that your dough never rises enough to touch the wrap , or else the loaf will deform while you are removing the wrap . Also , if you are proofing in banettons , do n't oil them , use flour combinations to prevent sticking . If you are out of plastic wrap , substituting alu wrap is a bad idea , because yeast is very sensitive to metallic ions . Today 's non-reactive metal utensils are safe enough for use with yeast dough , but untreated aluminium can be problematic . Try baking paper instead ( you may have to tape it to the outer bowl walls ) .
Cookbooks describe the state as " smooth and elastic " I think this is a reasonable description . When the dough is first mixed it is very wet and sticky . As it is mixed you can see a lot of clumps and heterogeneous textures . As the proteins in the flour mix with water they form gluten and the kneading folds the elastic gluten over itself again and again making sheets . The dough becomes less sticky and wet and more springy . The texture becomes completely homogeneous . Kneading by hand it is impossible to over knead this type of dough . I have read that it is possible to over knead in a machine . In this case , supposedly , the protein sheets eventually rip up enough that you lost what you created and the dough reverts . I have kneaded in a machine for a long time and never personally seen this effect .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
There are several reasons for adding orange juice : The first is for flavor . The second is to act as an acid . Although in this particular case , the acid is already in the baking powder . All baking powder needs to act as a leavening agent is some kind of liquid . Unless you meant baking soda , in which case an acid is necessary for leavening . The third is to inhibit mold growth . The real reason vitamin C is added is as a dough enhancer , not for gluten development . Since this is a quick bread ( no yeast ) , gluten development is not a main concern . The fourth reason for the orange juice is to make a tender crumb . Because of the fructose found naturally in it . Sugars are added to baked goods as a tenderizing agent . This recipe sounds yummy !
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
Let the dough rest in the bowl for a while after mixing . Time will not only improve the flavor ( insert autolyse proselytism here ) but will also give the flour time to hydrate , making the dough somewhat easier to handle . Dough will become less sticky as you work it -- witness the way dough kneaded in a mixer or food processor initially sticks to the sides but eventually forms a ball and leaves the bowl clean . So , one option is to work it a bit with a mixer first , or just with a wooden spoon in the bowl . Anil 's suggestion to oil your hands is a good one . If the kind of dough you 're making allows it , add some oil or butter to the dough during mixing , too . Flour helps , of course . Instead of trying to coat your hands in flour , throw a bit on the kneading surface and on the top of the dough . For very sticky dough , a <URL> can help you scrape the dough off the surface and fold it over onto itself until it becomes easier to handle . This is easiest if you 're working on a hard , smooth kneading surface like marble .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
Allowing dough to rise twice results in a finer gluten structure than allowing it to rise once . It results in a smaller crumb and prevents huge gaping airholes in your bread . The reason that you have to let it re-rise is that you just pushed all the air out with the kneading you did developing that gluten structure .
It should be reasonably dense , firm and only a little sticky on the outside - a bit like modelling clay . You should be able to knead it easily and cut shapes out of it without too much trouble . The absorptive potential of flour varies by brand and even batch , so recipes involving it always require a little improvisation - in this case it sounds like you need a bit more .
Your best bet is a stone ground bread flour or hard flour in the US that means finding a local mill . At your standard supermarket a high protein bread flour is your only option if you can find it there . I generally have to venture out to a Whole Foods market to find that as my " local " grocery store does n't carry it . You could also try Tipo 00 , I have run across it in some specialty stores . You are looking for the highest gluten content you can find so that you can get the elasticity you need to make proper strudel .
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
Since my pizza dough recipe makes three 12 " pies and I usually make two at a time , I regularly freeze extras just as you did . To thaw , I have used both the countertop and refrigerator method . Thawing on the countertop produced the best results . The dough rolled as usual and the crust ( a thin one ) was crispy on the outside and chewy on the inside after baking .
I do n't believe you will be satisfied with any cookies you roll out and cut from this dough . That said , there are three options that may allow the dough to find a tasty future . Make a ' Mega Cookie ' : roll the dough out and fit it onto a pizza tin and bake . This can be decorated as one large cookie/pizza . Make ' Brownies ' : work the dough into an 8 " x8 " or 9 " x13 " pan and bake . ' Cupcakes ' : scoop a spoonful of dough into each compartment of muffin tin and bake . Of course you will have to watch to get them done enough as the standard bake time probably wo n't apply . If your recipe does n't include eggs ( or you are not concerned with the risk that raw eggs may pose ) adding it to homemade ice cream would be a fourth option . Good luck .
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
You can refrigerate all kinds of yeast-bread dough . Right after kneading , before the dough has had a chance to rise , oil the dough lightly , cover with plastic wrap or use a ziplock , and place in the refrigerator . As the dough cools in the refrigerator the action of the yeast will slow down until the dough has reached refrigeration temperature . At that point the yeast is still working , but at a snail 's pace . So , during the first few hours in the fridge it may require a punch down or two , as there may still be enough warmth in the dough for the yeast to show active signs of life . After the dough is completely cool , it may not need anything from you , but still check it at least every 12 hours or so - it may need another punch down . If at any point it grows to close to double it 's original size , go ahead and punch it down . Most doughs will be fine if babysat like this for up to 3 or 4 days . When you 're ready to bake , punch down the dough again ( if necessary ) , shape , and allow to rise as if it had never taken its little nap in the refrigerator . Of course this rise is going to take longer than non-refrigerated dough as it reaches room temperature , but it should be ready to bake when it looks like a non-refrigerated dough of the same type would look when it 's ready to bake . Bake as usual . I 'm sure there are exceptions to the basic rules I 've set out , but I 've never had a problem doing this with any yeast-bread dough .
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
end question
start question
Will my double crust for a fresh uncooked chicken pot pie get soggy if left in refrigerator overnight ?
No , it 'll be fine . I ca n't elaborate really . It just will be fine it 's how people have done it forever . I do it on a daily basis . As long as everything is cold when you assemble and the pastry is raw , you 'll have no issue at all .
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
Personally , I 'd just season the pan a couple times to cover the spot ; it seems excessive to strip off all the other seasoning and start from scratch unless the pan is really deeply rusted . Other people may feel differently , of course ; there are as many opinions about caring for cast-iron as there are people that own it .
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
Buying coriander whole rather than ground is probably your best bet . As is the case with allspice and coffee , they 're bound to eventually lose flavor , likely to light/heat/moisture , fresh grinding will bring back some of the spark . If you 're using fresh from the garden coriander you 're not out of options . There 's <URL> , and also <URL> if you 're willing to go down that route . If the fridge/freezer simply is n't an option , and having a bouquet of coriander is n't in the cards , then I would just hang them upside down in your basement/closet and then keep them in airtight containers away from direct light and heat .
Just before the party , sprinkle some granulated sugar on top . Use a blowtorch ( preferred ) or a very hot broiler to " brulee " the new sugar . That will cause both the old and new sugar to get browned and crunchy . I just saw this on a related question . <URL> . He shows great blowtorch technique , do it just like that and you 'll be fine , no need to remove the soggy layer .
That release of moisture is due to breakage of chicken 's cell structure , and further moisturing will not repair it - so it 's not about the pores , and there 's no " going back " from that state . Still , if You cook Your chicken in a liquid with agents that affect osmotic pressure ( salt , for example ) , it will lead to release of liquid through membranes , and further cooling will cause the reverse effect ( chcken absurbing released liquid ) . That 's why stew/soup-like dishes often taste better after cooling/reheating . Hope I got the point )
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
Foil is the way to go , combined with not too fierce a heat . You want to cook at about 160C until the centre of the pie is piping hot . To lower the chances of burning , portion the pie prior to reheating . That way the centre will get hot more quickly . Reheating more than once is generally not a good idea for safety reasons . You can however portion one night 's pie and keep the other in the fridge .
It depends on what kind of settings your crock pot has . A low simmer on the stove is probably equivalent to something fairly low on your slow cooker , though . If all you have is warm , low , and high , you want low - in some cases it might be too hot , though . You 're aiming for just short of boiling , so a setting that gets you a few bubbles now and then is good . More than that and you 're cooking a bit vigorously , and on a " warm " setting you likely are n't heating it enough to cook properly and stay safe . If you have some kind of continuous settings , you can possibly adjust to get exactly where you want !
In November 2007 a recipe was published in Cooks Illustrated for a Foolproof Pie dough with vodka . That recipe was created by J. Kenji Lopez-Alt who was one of the chefs on America 's Test Kitchen and writer for Cooks Illustrated . He has an article about the recipe here <URL> . As far as I know this was not a well-known trick and Lopez-Alt came up with it originally .
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
I think you probably used too much flour for the amount of liquid in your gravy -- instead of gravy , you made pudding . You might be able to thin it down by whisking in some additional liquid such as milk or water before reheating it . However , next time use half ( or even less ) percentage of flour to liquid , and you 'll have better results .
In the accepted answer to <URL> , it says that you can try wringing the pumpkin purée out in cheese cloth ; or in a comment , that you can let it drain in a colander .
My friend makes coconut crusts all the time and she bakes them at 350 degrees . But AllRecipes.com bakes their crust at 325 degrees for 15 minutes .
Not all turkeys are the same , and personally , I would not risk letting an entire turkey go rancid in the refrigerator . There is so much you do n't know about this turkey : How was it butchered ? In particular , how long was it sitting on the block and was it packed immediately afterward or left sitting out for a long time ? How quickly was it cooled down to " transporting " temperature after butchering ? Was it transported immediately , or was it stored for a while before transport , and if so , what were those storage conditions ? How specifically was it transported ? What were the environmental conditions , aside from temperature ? Was it exposed to air ? Could it have picked up any other contaminants ? Just how cold was the refrigerator at Trader Joe 's ? Are you sure that it 's consistently that cold ? What if the turkey was shifted around ? For example , what if some other customer picked it up , tossed it in a shopping cart , then after an hour of shopping decided to put it back ? How did she transport it ? I 'm guessing in a non-temperature-controlled trunk ? How long was it in that condition/environment before finally making it into the fridge ? Was the temperature in the fridge turned down as far as it can go long before putting the turkey in there ? If not , how long might it have taken to get down to the desired temperature , especially with a massive slightly-warmed-up turkey in there ? How cold does her refrigerator get ? Is it a new refrigerator ? Are you both certain that it gets as cold as the rep at TJ 's is assuming ? Have you actually stuck a thermometer in there to measure the environmental temperature around where the turkey would be stored ? I 'm not expecting you to answer any of these ; my point is just that there are so many variables , so many things that can go wrong , and the quoted 10-day storage period ( as well as the sell-by date ) is for storage under ideal conditions . I 've seen turkeys go rancid in the fridge after just 2 days . I 've seen others take longer , but still far less than 10 days to go rancid . It 's an incredibly frustrating and completely avoidable experience . Just put it in the freezer ! She just needs to make sure she gives it a couple of days to thaw in the fridge , due to the size of the bird . A half-frozen turkey on Thanksgiving day is almost as useless as a rancid one .
It 's probably OK but there are a lot of variables here so from where I sit , it 's difficult to be certain . Cooking will kill most bacteria . If the soup went from the pot , hot , to the container and capped immediately , the risk of airborne bacteria getting in is reduced . It takes more than a couple bacteria to get you sick but when conditions are right , bacteria multiply exponentially in a short period of time . If the container was at 72F , that 's better than if it was at 90F ... as if it was outside in the sun . You can give it a sniff to check if it smells OK . Reheating to a boil will kill most bacteria , but depending on the specific bacteria , not all . What 's more , certain bacteria leave behind toxins that are not easily destroyed . If you have a pressure cooker , that 's the best way to kill whatever bacteria might be in there . You would need to keep it in the cooker for a period of time ... 30 minutes perhaps . Seems like a lot of trouble to go to . Dry bouillon cubes should not have any bacteria ... assuming a clean manufacturing plant . Same goes if you used dehydrated chicken . It 's more likely bacteria got in if fresh uncooked chicken was used . Unwashed hands , contaminated utensils , used hand towels , unclean work area ... all that stuff comes into play . You probably already know about cross contamination . But here 's the thing ? Why risk it ? Salmonella will not likely kill you but your stomach will be churning and you 'll be spending some time in the bathroom . There are other bad actors out there and they are worse than Mr. Sal Minella ... Staphlococcus , E. Coli , Botulinum . My answer is , to be safe , toss it .
I 'm sorry to say this , but I think prevention is the best answer . Once you 're vegetables freeze things happen at the cellular level that changes the nature of the vegetables . For example , ice crystals pierce cell walls which destroys some of the structure , which is responsible for the crispness and crunch of the vegetable . I do n't think there is really a way to " fix " this , once it happens . That said , cooking does something similar to vegetables . Cooking destroys cell walls , which is why cooked carrots are so much softer than raw carrots . I would think that vegetables that stand up to cooking would survive freezing the best ( such as your mushrooms ) . On the other hand , somthing like lettuce is a lost cause , once frozen .
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
end question
start question
How do I tone down the intensity of raw onion ?
Two things control the " sharpness " of onions : variety and age . While certain varieties of onions are sharper than others ( i.e. Reds , walla-walls and vidalias are sweeter ) , any onion which has been in storage too long is going to be sulphurous and sharp-tasting . Since it 's January now , that 's going to be pretty much all onions . Since onion sharpness comes from sulphur compounds ( as I understand it ) , the best way to sweeten onions is to release some of them ahead of using the onion . The best way to do that is : Slice the onion thinly , crossways ( parallel to its equator rather than pole-to-pole ) . Place the sliced onion in a wide bowl , uncovered or very loosely covered , in the fridge or other cold place for at least an hour and up to a day . Additionally , either vinegar or salt -- or both -- will help accelerate removing sharpness from onion . For example , for a New Year 's Eve appetizer this year I sliced a red onion in to rings , tossed it with 1/2 tsp salt and 2 tsp red wine vinegar , and left it in an open bowl on the 45F porch for 5 hours . The result was intensely sweet red onion which could then be used as a canape topping . If you 're in a hurry , though , the only way to make the onion less sharp is to cook it .
No , there is no reason they should . Bacteria feed on carbohydrates , not on fats . ( This is why oil does n't spoil outside of the fridge - it is pure fat ) . So it is the amount of milk sugar which is important for the bacteria , and it is the same regardless of the fat content . Also , the spoiled milk is not more or less sour at the end . The other important factors are initial bacteria count and storage temperature . You ca n't do anything about the bacteria count , and ca n't know what it is . The storage temperature is , of course , your fridge temperature , which should be in the small range of 0-4 ° C . The other factor is the type of pasteurization . Traditional pasteurization makes a milk with a shelf life of 7 days , ESL gives it a shelf life of 21 days , and UHT milk can last for months , uncooled . Once opened , each of these types spoils within 3-4 days . And then , normally pasteurized milk goes really sour , partly even separating into curdles and whey . ESL and UHT milks get slightly more bitter , but not much , and they stay liquid and do n't change their odour or colour . Unless you pay lots of attention to the taste , you ca n't tell when ESL milk is spoiled . But this happens the same way no matter the fat content .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
According to <URL> : Chestnut storage is not the same as most nuts . Fresh chestnuts should be stored like carrots . Chestnuts are comprised of about 40-50 % water and thus if not stored properly , they will spoil . Therefore , chestnuts should be stored with great care and attention . The ideal storage conditions for chestnuts are 33-35 degrees Fahrenheit and 85-90 % humidity . We recommend storing chestnuts in covered containers in the coldest part of the refrigerator . Stored properly in the refrigerator , chestnuts can have a shelf life of approximately 2-3 weeks . If you plan to use the chestnuts soon after receiving them , simply place them in a covered container in the coldest part of the refrigerator . The colder , the better . Otherwise , they recommend freezing them ( preferably par-cooked ) , and provide information at the link above . <URL> offers the following information about storing chestnuts , to prevent molding to which they indicate the chestnuts are susceptible due to their high water content : Do not let fresch chestnuts freeze and thaw ( except if you are freezing for a purpose ) Never store chestnuts in a sealed plastic bag ( except dried or frozen ) Keep chestnuts refrigerated unless drying or sweetening the chestnuts If black molds have entered into the chestnut kernel , do not eat the chestnut Chestnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks Cooked chestnuts must also be refrigerated if not consumed right away Never bathe the chestnuts in plain water - this causes mold spores to be transferred to all the chestnuts passing though the bath water - instead , wash in clean running tap water Try to purchase fresh chestnuts close to the time you want to eat them
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
By " it stays longer " do you mean that the egg stays good longer or the membrane/air pocket stays around longer ? I do n't know why you would care about the air pocket so I 'll go with the other . Orientation is not going to noticeably affect egg quality . I do n't use egg cartons . I store my eggs in plastic tubs ( carefully ) . The eggs end up in a random orientation and there is no noticeable difference between any two eggs . I have heard to people storing the eggs differently to center the yolks in preparation for boiling . This is purely a cosmetic thing .
I use two different knives when I dice an onion . First , cut the onion in half , through the root end ( so that each half has a bit of the root on it to hold it together ) . Next , take a paring knife ( the skinny blade is why I use this knife here ) and make vertical cuts that go almost all the way to the root . Next , use the paring knife to make horizontal cuts while using one hand to hold the onion in place . Last , use a chef 's knife to make downward cuts to finish the dice . If you are trying to julienne cut the onion , cut off both the top and root part of the onion and peel it . Then chop the onion in half vertically and cut thin slices of onion on an angle from the outside toward the middle ( about a 10 degree angle should be fine ) . I do all of this with a chef 's knife .
There is an optimal temperature to which they must be cooked , independent of method ( boiling , frying , whatever ) . This temperature is 50 deg . C. ( This is lower than safety guidelines ; if you want to eliminate the foodborn illness risk , you must eat rubbery seafood ) . Once the inner temperature of seafood has risen above that , its proteins undergo an irreversible change called denaturation , which changes the texture . The time needed for reaching this temperature varies a lot . It depends on the size of the prawns , their initial temperature , the temperature of your water , on the total mass of water in the pot and on the total mass of prawns in the pot . If you find it impractical to impale a prawn on a digital thermometer every time you cook , you need to experiment . Keep the variables I mentioned constant , and boil prawns for different times . Find out how much they need before they go rubbery , and then stick to it , keeping all the other variables constant . In your case , this will probably correspond to the three minutes you mention . For somebody else , who boils a different amount of prawns per batch , it will be different . There is no minimal time , just as there is no maximal time . The minimal temperature for them to taste cooked is 45 degrees C. , but you can eat them at lower if you do n't mind them tasting raw . You can find the minimum time for your case as described above . The legal minimum temperature for US food safety is 63 degrees . You ca n't legally approximate it by time , you must use a thermometer , or , at home , you can go much above it just to make sure - when seafood turns stiff and dry , you can be sure that it has reached 70 degrees .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
I used to remove the paddle before the second rising to avoid breaking the bread . Did not find any other good way of doing it .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
Handling raw milk is risky , and please note this information is not professional advice and is not to be taken as an authoritative response . I will , however , attempt to provide some thoughts on handling raw milk below . Selling unpasteurized milk is illegal in some countries , and official sources usually discourage the consumption of raw milk instead of offering handling instructions ( for good reason ) . The FDA has <URL> on dangers of raw milk . There are other real dangers such as <URL> with which I bouted as an 8-year old . Think of 107F fever . Also , keep in mind when you boil the raw milk you are going through a similar process as pasteurization in regards to the theory on breaking down the complex proteins and <URL> . Probably even more than pasteurization since that occurs at lower temperatures . Those theories , however , are n't proven ( yet ) as far as I know , but you do burn some of the sugars in milk if you go above 70C . The actual answers : 2 : It is better to boil first for sure . Do n't store raw milk for lengths of time . 3 : Theoretically , if you do everything right and vacuum pack the milk , it might last a couple of weeks , but the longer it stays , the more dangerous it can get . Freezing might be a better option ( we keep our pasteurized milk a couple of months in the freezer ) . 1 : I ca n't tell you how long to boil it for , though the last time I had fresh milk , it was kept simmering on the burner for about 5 minutes by the folks at the farm . It was also minutes after it was collected ( fresher is better ) . one of the safest things you can do if you 're going to have raw milk , is to know the source and get it from a farm that takes care of the conditions . If you know the farm , the farmer , and the cows conditions are safe , you 're more likely to be able to enjoy raw milk in peace .
Common U.S. Volume Measurements : 1 tbsp = 3 tsp 1 fl oz = 2 tbsp 1 cup = 8 oz 1 pint = 2 cups 1 quart = 4 cups 1 gallon = 4 quarts Common U.S. to Metric Conversions : 1 oz ~ 30 mL 1 cup ~ 237 mL 1 quart ~ 1 L 1 oz = 28.4 g 1 lbs = 0.45 kg Common Metric to U.S. Conversions : 1 kg = 2.2 lbs Online Converters : <URL> : Type a conversion such as " <URL> " and it will automatically convert it for you . This is generally the fastest option . <URL> : Same idea , gives you a little more information and lets you disambiguate between similar measurements ( e.g. US tablespoons vs. UK tablespoons ) . <URL> : Converts to every well-known measurement at the same time . Can convert ( approximate ) volume to weight and vice versa , for many ingredients . <URL> : Same thing , a little easier to use , but slower . iPhone/iPad : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ... or just <URL> . Android : <URL> <URL> ... or just search the Play Store . Printable Conversion Charts <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - archaic/non-standard measurements ( Note : Use your browser 's " print selection " feature to print just the conversion chart )
Toasting a grain causes the color to change due to Maillard reactions . These are chemical reactions between sugars and amino acids that occur in high heat . When the grain cools down , those newly formed chemicals are still present so the flavor will still be different . However , when something is warm , aroma molecules are more volatile , and it is easier to smell them . This is why cold toast still tastes " toasty " but not as good as warm toast .
Looking at the USDA database , roasting the almonds does not affect the calcium levels ( comparing equivalent weights ) . Look at the value per 100g or value per ounce rather than volume-based values and you 'll see what I mean . Raw almonds average 269mg of calcium per 100g ( or 76mg per ounce ) . <URL> Dry roasted almonds average 268mg of calcium per 100g ( also 76mg per ounce ) . <URL>
Some things that are made almost entirely of almonds ( plus elbow grease ) , and thus will use up a large quantity of almonds : Almond butter ( need to add : nothing . Well , salt , if you like . ) Almond milk ( need to add : water ) And then there are more dessert recipes than you can shake a stick at , but they take increasing amounts of other ingredients , and thus decreasing amounts of almonds . Marzipan ( need to add : sugar , rosewater ) Macarons ( need to add : sugar , eggs , some sort of icing/frosting ) Almond torte ( ditto ) Almond brittle ( need to add : sugar , corn syrup , butter , salt ) Almond pasta [ variation on Hungarian dióstészta ] ( need to add : cooked pasta of your choice [ e.g. broken-up fettuccine or small egg noodles ] , sweetening of your choice [ sugar or honey or even artificial sweeteners will all work ] )
Two things control the " sharpness " of onions : variety and age . While certain varieties of onions are sharper than others ( i.e. Reds , walla-walls and vidalias are sweeter ) , any onion which has been in storage too long is going to be sulphurous and sharp-tasting . Since it 's January now , that 's going to be pretty much all onions . Since onion sharpness comes from sulphur compounds ( as I understand it ) , the best way to sweeten onions is to release some of them ahead of using the onion . The best way to do that is : Slice the onion thinly , crossways ( parallel to its equator rather than pole-to-pole ) . Place the sliced onion in a wide bowl , uncovered or very loosely covered , in the fridge or other cold place for at least an hour and up to a day . Additionally , either vinegar or salt -- or both -- will help accelerate removing sharpness from onion . For example , for a New Year 's Eve appetizer this year I sliced a red onion in to rings , tossed it with 1/2 tsp salt and 2 tsp red wine vinegar , and left it in an open bowl on the 45F porch for 5 hours . The result was intensely sweet red onion which could then be used as a canape topping . If you 're in a hurry , though , the only way to make the onion less sharp is to cook it .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
To get the sugar caramelized to that perfect dark brown , I start the sugar on the stove top and finish in the oven . I start by adding a bit of water and some corn syrup ( the fructose makes the brown more intense , but one can skip it ) to the sugar and keep it on a medium burner until it reaches the first caramel stage , at 155 & deg ; C/311 & deg ; F . As Michael notes , the sugar can go very fast from this stage to burnt . To avoid this , I place the pan in an oven that has been pre-heated to 180 & deg ; C/356 & deg ; F , just above the dark caramel stage . Checking every two minutes with an infrared thermometer ( more often as it gets closer to 177 & deg ; C/350 & deg ; F ) , it 's easy to get the sugar to the right temperature . <URL>
end question
start question
How do I incorporate chiles into a chocolate cake recipe ?
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
One thing you can do is use much longer pieces of acetate and cut the long cigarillos afterwards gently with a hot knife . That way your spreading and rolling action is cut down to 1/2 or 1/3 .
<URL> describes the process by which yeast is commercially prepared in good detail for an overview . There are several stages of cultivation and growing and increasing the yeast biomass , culminating as its final steps : Treatments and packaging The yeast in the final trade bioreactor is concentrated by centrifugation and finally harvested by a filter press or a rotary vacuum filter , until it contains 27 -- 33 % of dry cell mass . The yeast cake is blended with suitable amounts of water and emulsifiers and cutting oils ( soybean or cottonseed oil ) to obtain its extrudable form . The yeast is then packaged and shipped as compressed fresh baker 's yeast , or thermolysed and dried to form various types of dry yeast . The dried yeast is packed under vacuum or nitrogen atmosphere . The packaging method varies among manufacturers and depends on the type of yeast product . Note that this process requires assorted items of industrial or laboratory equipment which may not be suitable to the home environment , including centrifuges and filter presses or vacuuum filters . If you really only want to preserve your starter strain without maintaining an active starter , simply drying a sample and then storing it in the freezer may be a better option . This process is described at <URL> .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
To taste is one of those awesome cooking terms that trips people up all the time . To taste does not mean to what tastes good to you , although you can use that as a determination and your dish should still come out fine for most people . To taste means that you add salt ( or whatever ) while tasting the dish and you slowly add until the seasoning tastes perfect . To properly do this you are going to have to train your palate , but luckily it not that hard to do . As a matter of fact , we have a pretty good way to learn it right <URL> The end result you are trying to achieve is the point where food tastes the most like it 's self with out adding to much , this the small increments . The important part to remember is that " to taste " is where your food lives . It 's the thing that is unique to you and a part of what makes every dish you make an expression .
According to <URL> , as reported in Fine Cooking , the sugar should weigh slightly more than the flour : The sugar should weigh the same as , or slightly more than , the flour . Remember that this is weight , not volume . A cup of sugar weighs about 7 ounces , and a cup of all-purpose flour weighs about 4-1/2 ounces . So , if we 're building a recipe with 1 cup sugar , we 'll need about 1-1/2 cups flour ( about 6-3/4 ounces ) . Sugar plays a very important role in creating the structure and bite of cakes , and also helps to retain moisture and inhibit spoiling , so you can not simply reduce the quantity without limit to control the sweetness . That being said , most recipes have a certain amount of tolerance . You can probably reduce the sugar by about 20 to 25 % without completely altering the nature of the recipe , although the crumb may suffer a little . Vanilla and rose are delicate flavors . If you are making a yellow cake with butter , and egg yolks , they may be competing and masking the flavor . Using a white cake base may allow these flavors to show through more clearly .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
The extra eggs help to make a more cake like consistency . Other wise it 's just a stack of crepes ! To remove the eggy taste , remove half of the egg yolks . They will still cook more or less the same , and will be the same eggyness of a three egg batch
I 'd stew the raspberries down with a little water ( and sugar if the raspberries are n't sweet ) until they 're very soft , then pass the whole thing through a sieve to remove the seeds . You can then either store the result in the fridge , or pour it into an ice cube tray for easy portioning and a nice cold smoothie .
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
<URL> has a vast amount of information on beer styles . To answer your specific question , an ale is top-fermenting whereas a lager is bottom-fermenting . Lagers are generally fermented at lower temperatures than ales . I believe that lambics would constitute a third category , since they are traditionally fermented by wild yeasts , but opinion may vary on this , I do n't know . There are dozens of styles of ales and lagers and a few different lambics , but the method of fermentation is the main distinguishing characteristic between the three types .
Butter gives more flavor , but oil provides longevity . Butter is about 20 % water . That water will evaporate during baking and continue to do so even after they are out of the oven causing your cakes to stale quicker . Also the the fat in butter remains solid at room temperature . Once your cake has cooled the fat , now dispersed in your cake solidifies once again and makes for a bit firmer of a crumb . Vegetable oil , however , is pure fat containing no water and remains liquid at room temperature . The moisture provided by oil will not evaporate during cooking and even after the product is cooled to room temp , the liquid fat remain and provide a moist crumb . Since there is no water to evaporate this product will last much longer on the shelf than one made with butter .
The short answer is : you ca n't . The long answer : chocolate has very complicated thermodynamics . There is an optimal speed of the cooling process , and it is slow . Chocolate should be tempered to 33 Celsius ( there is some variance depending on the cocoa content ) and cooled in an environment between 27 and 20 Celsius . Then it looks and tastes good . Chocolate which has been cooled in a cold environment will not have any shine , and the colder you get , the larger your problems will be . You can even get uneven distribution of the cocoa fat , with it pooling along the nuts on the inside and letting the outer layers unpleasantly dry . Besides , you will get condensation , which is ugly and makes the chocolate sticky to handle and watered down in the mouthfeel . In extreme cases , you may even end up with distempered chocolate , especially if you do n't have seed crystals . No matter what you are doing - truffles , chocolate dipped fruit , pure pieces of chocolate in a mould - you ca n't rush it and get good quality .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
A Christmas cake is a large cake and you 're cooking it for a long time . Insulating and padding the tin helps prevent the outside of the cake from scorching before the inside is properly cooked .
Food processors are wonderful kitchen tools , but they have only existed for a relatively short while . The techniques used prior to their invention still work , but are much more labor intensive . Use a <URL> . Use a mortar and pestle . The results can then be forced through a sieve of <URL> if desired to get a smoother result . You have not mentioned in your recipe whether the beans are cooked . I am guessing that they are from the other ingredients they were to be processed with . If so , the food mill should work very well . If they are not , and you are essentially making a bean flour , the mortar and pestle would be more appropriate , although a lot of work .
Every time I make brownies , I always get compliments on how fudgy they are . There may be some variations based on the recipe you use , but the three things I 've found to be most important in my experience are : Do n't even think about using a boxed/pre-made mix ! Bake from scratch - it adds a whole 3-5 minutes of extra prep time for brownies , but the taste and texture would be worth it even if it added an hour . Use fewer eggs . I use the King Arthur Flour " Grandmother 's brownies " recipe ; I can only find an online copy for the 200th Anniversary edition , but those instructions are n't the same as the older version my mom 's cookbook has . The recipe calls for 2-4 eggs per batch ( a batch is a 9x9 " square pan ) , and instructs you to use more eggs for a cakier brownie , fewer for a fudgier one . I 've found that 3 eggs works best for me . Use brown sugar for at least some of the total sugar in the recipe . The King Arthur Flour recipe calls for 2 cups of sugar , either white or brown . I typically split 50/50 ; the brown sugar adds a nice flavor , and I think the moisture in it helps achieve that fudgy consistency , too . There 's another element to changing the consistency , too : cooking time . Most brownie recipes I 've seen say to bake for 35-45 minutes ; I almost never bake them for more than 30 because I find that the edges start to get really dried out . Undercooking slightly will keep the brownies moist and fudgy . The ingredients from the old " Grandmother 's Brownies " King Arthur Flour recipe : 4 ounces ( squares ) unsweetened chocolate [ can substitute 1-ounce square = 3 tbs cocoa powder + 1 tbs butter ) ; 1/2 cup ( 1 stick ) butter ; 2 cups sugar and/or brown sugar ; 2 to 4 eggs ; 1/2 teaspoon salt ; 2 teaspoons vanilla ; 1 cup flour
end question
start question
How do I infuse fruit flavor in ganache ?
There are four common ways to make fruit-flavored ganaches : Use the zest of the fruit Zest the fruit ( works best for cirtus ) and place the zest in the cream as it is brought to a simmer . Strain out the zest and use the cream . Use reduced juice Fruit juice from almost any fruit may be used as a liquid flavoring in ganache . The fruit juice should be heated until it is about half of its original weight . The reduced fruit juice can often be used as a 1:1 ( depending on the type of juice you might want to increase the juice slightly ) substitute in recipes that call for a liqueur . Like a liqueur , it is stirred in slowly ( a little bit at a time ) after the ganache has been mixed together . Use a fruit-flavored liqueur A third option is to find a liqueur with the correct flavor . It should be added slowly after the chocolate and cream have combined and formed a smooth ganache , but before the ganache has cooled . Use an extract or flavoring oil You can also use an extract or flavoring oil . Extracts should be treated like liqueurs . Flavoring oils ( such as <URL> ) should be added in VERY small quantities after the ganache has become smooth . The first option may be combined with the 2nd or 3rd . If you choose to combine the 2nd and 3rd options you would have to use half of each , because doubling the liquid in a ganache will either change the consistency or cause it to break .
According to at least <URL> that I 've found , you can just wrap in aluminum foil instead . That would imply , to me , that they 're not used for any ( significant ) flavor . The recipe does use a single banana leaf for flavor , but Ti leaves for the outer wrapping . Using foil may not give you the exact same results , but it might be " close enough " for people who do n't actually live in Hawaii .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
" Fibrous " and " dry " are good descriptions for bean which have n't been prepared properly . Mostly , they have either not been soaked long enough , or have n't been cooked for long enough . Normal times for beans are about 12 hours soaking in water and another 1-3 hours cooking , depending on the desired texture . Also , sometimes beans can be cooked with about quarter/half a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda , which softens them nicely . That should be a start towards solving your problem . To answer your question , I think that white beans and pinto beans are a good start ( you can make a chili , for instance ) , and that chickpeas are also a very good starting point . Cooked chickpeas are great as-is , and can be seasoned with cumin , salt and lemon juice for a nice snack .
Even though it is n't really milk ( in the dairy sense ) , coconut milk still naturally separates into a thick cream and thinner liquid like regular milk . As such , when working with coconut milk you should still follow the same procedures you would to make a milk-based cream sauce . The number one rule when making any creamy sauce is : DO N'T LET IT BOIL ! Boiling will guarantee that your creamy sauce ( including sauces made with coconut milk ) will break in some form or fashion . At most , you should cook these at a bare simmer . Other than that , there are some techniques you can use to keep your curry smooth . You could use an emulsifier like honey ( common in vinaigrettes , where it is used to make sure the oil and vinegar do n't separate ) , added toward the end of cooking . You could also use a thickening agent , like a cornstarch slurry or a quick roux . Curry paste is also a thickening agent . As a general rule of thumb , when making Thai-style curry I usually cook my vegetables in a little more oil than I think they need , then add the curry paste and sauté that until it has absorbed the oil ( along with any dry spices ) . It will act as a roux for the coconut milk and make sure there are no lumps in the final curry . Lastly , cooking the curry uncovered at a simmer , stirring occasionally , will thicken it up nicely and help all the ingredients stay together .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
If you have one , a potato ricer is very effective at removing moisture from things that do n't drain effectively with gravity alone , e.g. sauerkraut , cooked spinach , salted cabbage , salted squash/marrow , etc. . In my experience , it 's more effective , and easier to clean , than a salad spinner . <URL> ( For best results , look for the kind that 's pictured above , with holes only on the bottom , not the sides . Otherwise , you 're liable to end up shooting sauerkraut juice halfway across your kitchen . )
It makes no difference whether you use sheet or powdered . Just make sure to use the right amount . It should be given on the package , like " this sachet is enough for 500 ml liquid " . You can try to use less than indicated for a softer texture , but if you do n't use enough , it will stay liquid , so you may need to experiment until you get it right . You ca n't bake gelatin . It is a protein and denaturates at 50 ° C . The proper way is to bake your pie or fruit cake as always , and after it is ready , pour the gelatin containing liquid over the fruits and wait for it to congeal . ( I am assuming here that you just want a gelatin glaze over a complete pie . If you want a complete gelatinized filling , everything below applies . Bake a shell , put the fruit in it , then fill it with the liquid ) . The liquid itself can be pure water , or water syrup , or , if you used canned fruit , you can catch the liquid from the can and strain it . Then use it , pure or diluted with water . Sugar of food coloring do n't interfere with gelatin , use them as you see fit ( I think it 's popular to color the gelatin on strawberry cakes a light red ) . The mixing is very similar to panna cotta . First , bloom your gelatin by putting it into a cup with some water ( 1-2 tbsp ) and leaving it for awhile . It should soak up the water , use it while it still looks moist , before the granules stick to each other . It usually takes around 5 minutes . Meanwhile , warm your liquid on a very low setting . It is best to use a thermometer . Dump the gelatine into the liquid while still on the heat . Stir until dissolved completely , never let it get too warm . When dissolved , remove from the heat and pour immediately . There are n't many things which interfere with gelatin , but some fruits ( or the enzymes in them ) do . These tend to be tropical fruits with at least moderate acidity , like papaya , mango , kiwi and pineapple . If you pour gelatine on them when they are raw , it will have trouble setting . Cooking them should help , but I do n't know how long or what temperature . If they are canned , it should be OK . Bananas are not a problem , even when raw . And because you said you want to make it " professional " : If you are talking about a thin glaze , gelatin is not your only choice . You can use starch as a thickener , many professional bakeries do so . It eliminates the possibility of getting the right texture of the glaze ( which will be rubbery with too much gelatine and half liquid if you do n't use enough ) , and maybe you 'll feel more comfortable with it .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
The heat provided by capsaicin really is a <URL> that seems to have a lot to do with how it binds to pain receptors ( see <URL> ) . I think this component would be pretty much impossible to replicate with a substitution , unless you want to physically burn yourself on your meal . You could experiment with alternative sources of strong , pungent flavor like garlic , ginger , black pepper , and horseradish , which are similar but certainly distinct . Chinese-style tacos , maybe ? That said , Tabasco and other " pepper sauces " like buffalo sauce often feature vinegar as one of their primary ingredients besides chili peppers . A few dashes cut with a bit of olive oil may help replicate some of that sharpness ; think a strong <URL> . It wo n't be quite the same , but it will help recapture at least one of those elements without causing harm to your unfortunate partner .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Trim your carrots , rutabaga , turnips , etc. to consistent sizes and put in a large saute pan . Add stock or water ( amount will depend on vegetables and their density along with quantitye of vegetables . Start with enough to come about 2/3 up the volume of veg . ) along with some salt , a couple tablespoons of butter and a couple tablespoons of sugar . Bring the liquid to a simmer and cover lightly with a lid or a circle of parchment paper . Simmer until vegetables are getting tender . Remove the lid and continue to simmer until liquid evaporates and sugar and butter create a nice glaze . Watch at the end to make sure the sugar does n't burn . Add any desired herbs , taste and adjust seasoning and serve .
There 's a few types of salsa -- salsa fresca ( aka pico de gallo , aka salsa cruda ) , which is " fresh salsa " and uncooked , and if made fresh , it should n't be too watery ( unless you add to much liquid , eg , lime juice ) , but letting the vegetables sit after salting will start to draw out extra liquid and could become watery . For truly thick salsa , you have to treat it like a jam , and cook it to release the pectin in the tomato . ( or I guess you could use some other thickeners ... I 've never tried . tomato paste , maybe ? ) You do n't necessarily have to cook the other ingredients , too , but I personally like roasting the peppers and onions to sweeten then up and remove some of the extra liquid . ( halve the peppers and seed them , lay them on a tray cut side up with the onion cut into wedges , roast 'til they 're softened , then dump into a food processor and either pulse or liquify it , depending on how chunky you like it . And the skin falls off the peppers , so I leave 'em out ) . You can do the same roasting with the tomatoes , and it 'll be thicker from the food processor , but you wo n't get the same cling without letting them cook slowly in liquid to develop the pectin . If you roast the tomatoes , I like to use plum tomatoes , as they have more " meat " to the gel around the seeds , and take out the gel and seeds .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
I think this is a good question , as it is an issue that is frequently misunderstood . There is an aromatic flavoring called angostura bark , though it seems to be more used in traditional medicine than in any food or cooking situation . Angostura brand bitters , on the other hand , do not actually contain the bark at all -- they are instead a brand -- House of Angostura -- named for Angostura , Venezuela . As a flavor , this formula belongs to a class of bitters called " aromatic bitters " ( as opposed to , say , <URL> . Angostura is probably the best-selling brand of aromatic bitters , at least in the US , but they are by no means the only player . Fee Brothers and Peychaud 's are both popular alternatives . Though there is a fairly wide variety among aromatic bitters , and their formulas are secret , they do have some commonalities . For example , <URL> tends to be the strongest flavor . They are also , as the name implies , very aromatic , so that a " dash " or two is plenty to flavor a drink .
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
Antibiotics might be a reason , but it 's not the only cause . Other significant reasons are : exercise feed post-processing Most of the chicken available in grocery stores in the U.S. is factory raised ... they 're bulked up as quickly as possible without threat of predators . They 're fed corn , rather than their acting as pest control on farms , where they 'd be eating insects , moving about ( in their search for insects and other things to eat ) , and possibly running away from predators ( getting more exercise ) . That 's not to say that free roaming chickens would n't be fed corn or other processed feed ( or even antiobiotics ) , but that they 'd still have an opportunity for other food . The lack of predators means that chickens never have to fly , so they do n't need fast-twitch breast muscle , and they can grow to a size where they 'd never be able to fly , even for short flight to excape predators . Also not common in the U.S. are old chickens for stewing ... we have large chickens , but not necessarily the old ones , such as formerly egg-laying chickens that are no longer producing eggs . I have no idea what 's done with those ... they 're not in grocery stores , so I assume that they 're used in some other way ( dog food ? ) . One other possibility is the gender of the chicken . I do n't believe that males are raised for meat ( or anything else , really , other than in token amounts to sustain the species ) in the U.S. . I assume that a higher percentage of roosters would be produced in other countries , but I have no idea if they might be culled early ( if there are agression issues , etc , that would make them difficult to raise ) , like male cows are . And as for the post-processing comment ... much of the U.S. chicken is sold cut up , possibly with a brine solution injected , rather than being sold whole . This does n't seem like a big deal , other than the possibility of the brining , but it also means that chickens have been selectively bred for breast meat , rather than whole carcass weight . It also means that most of what we 're eating is white meat , rather than a mix of white &amp; dark meat .
There 's a reason so many recipes say " salt to taste " : there 's no single answer . Most of the time , we use close to 0.5 % salt by weight ( so 1kg food has 5g or 1 teaspoon of salt ) , but " close to " leaves plenty of wiggle room about what exactly is best . Different people have different tastes . What 's perfectly salted for one person may be oversalted or undersalted for another . Different dishes need different ratios too . Some things are supposed to taste a bit salty , while some just need a hint to amplify other flavors . Some ingredients need more salt to balance them than others . Sure , you can get approximate starting points , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( with tons of variation - that 's a couple random recipes ) . So very roughly , 1kg of food often comes with 5 grams of salt ( 1 teaspoon ) with exceptions ranging up to 10 grams ( 2 teaspoons ) . But your best bet is always going to be to find a good recipe for the specific dish you 're making , and possibly adjust it if you know your preferences lean one way or another . Failing that , when cooking something improvised or new , or using one of the many recipes that just says " salt to taste " , letting you do what suits you , trust the instincts that you 've developed for your own tastes . If you 're cooking for others , with possibly varying tastes , it gets trickier . For things where salt can be added after the fact , you can use less salt and let everyone individually salt to taste . For things you ca n't mix after cooking , you pretty much have to compromise somewhere in the middle and hope it works for everyone . Beyond that , if you ca n't decide what the right amount of salt is , do n't worry about it . There 's surely a range that works for you , so if two different amounts both taste good , there you are . And if you find yourself disagreeing with someone about what amount of salt results in the best flavor , stop . You probably just have different tastes from the person you 're arguing with .
Bananas ! I grill it as 1 piece with the skin on . When the skin gets dark it is ready .
end question
start question
How can I keep my waffle iron relatively clean when making waffles ?
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
Ground beef cooks quite fast . It does n't need more than 5 minutes ( depending on the base of your pan and the amount of meat of course ) . Just take a piece and rip/cut it open . If it 's brown inside , and not red or pink , it 's fully cooked .
Perfect . Sounds like your pizza stone is nicely seasoned . Scrub it with your stiffest brush , rinse with water , no soap , done . If you 're paranoid about germs , cook it before cooking on it . Throw it in the oven at a few hundred degrees , for 15 minutes or so . Ideally , you 're supposed to heat the stone ( thus sterilizing it ) before slapping the pizza upon it anyway ( although that requires a <URL> ) .
I did actually do two batches with the two methods within a few weeks of asking the question . Just cooking it all together , then removing the skins and seeds with a food mill , is definitely a lot faster . Removing the skins first then pureeing , so that you only remove the seeds later ... well , though it is easy to remove the skin from each individual grape , time-consuming is an understatement unless you 're making small quantities . It took me a few hours for ( if I recall correctly ) 10-15 pounds of grapes . Including the skins has a moderate effect on the texture - it 's slightly thicker and more opaque . You get the feeling there 's just more stuff in it . As long as you 're cooking it fairly long , though , there 's not a very noticeable difference in flavor . On the other hand , if you 're using a recipe with pectin instead of cooking it down until it sets , I definitely prefer having the skins in , for both flavor and texture . So there 's some personal preference involved ; I do rather like the texture with the pureed skins . But if you 're doing large quantities , and the grapes are on the small side , and you do n't have help , you might want to skip it .
The most common reason for leakage with Cordon Bleu Chicken is that the packets are too thick , which makes it impossible to get a perfect fold ; you need to pound the breasts very thin - less than 1/2 " , maybe a little more than 1/4 " . The other " trick " is to make a small cut along the folded edge of the breast after you fold and seal the packets , which essentially makes it almost like a sandwich ; the top and bottom parts can move independently and you do n't have tension trying to pull the top piece away . Just do n't cut so deep that you cause an immediate leak ; if you 've pounded the breast to 1/3 " thickness , then your cut should be no more than about 1/8 " . If you do it this way , you should n't even need to use toothpicks ; I never do , and I have n't sprung a single leak in my last 20 or so preparations .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
This is one of the reasons I hate working with liquid lecithin - it 's the most viscous and sticky substance I 've ever had in my kitchen ( or , frankly , anywhere ) . Prevention seems to be the best approach ; try not to let the lecithin directly touch any utensils or cooking surface . Grease up your spoons , preferably with something reasonably solid at room temperature like coconut oil , butter , or margarine . That makes the lecithin slide off more easily , and you only need to clean off the grease afterward ( i.e. with soap ) . The only way I 've been able to clean surfaces or utensils coated with the lecithin itself is lots and lots and lots of warm water and paper towels . Warm water is important since lecithin does not dissolve very well in cold water . Good luck - personally , on the infrequent occasion that I need lecithin these days , I just stick to the granules .
Hello <URL> , it is perfectly safe to use stainless steel wool on a Vitreous enamel . I presume that the cast iron skillet has a Vitreous enamel finish . The reason is simple : Vitreous enamel is essentially a type of ceramic and has a hardness of around 5-6 on the <URL> . Steel has around 4-5 on the same scale . This means that generally , you can not damage it with the steel wool . Also no not confuse the " grit " of the steel wool with its hardness :P The only thing that will happen is that the enamel will get very small scratches and that things will stick a bit better in them . You can get rid of most of them with a good polishing compound if they disturb you to much . Personally I would advise you " not to need " to clean it with steel wool in the first place , but is something burned up badly and you do not have heavy cleaning agents nearby steel wool is an acceptable solution . If it is just for cleaning leftovers , usually soaking in soap water and a hard plastic brush does a very good job as well . Remember that even thou Vitreous enamel is very hard and durable it may be damaged by overheating or crack if dropped .
The easiest way to prevent meringue from weeping is by adding a teaspoon of cornstarch to the recipe , which will absorb the excess moisture that causes it . If you 're a bit adventurous , you can also opt to sprinkle some cookie crumbs over your filling so when it weeps , the crumbs will absorb the moisture .
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
No , this is n't normal . A little flaking , perhaps , when you go over 600 ° F , but 500 ° F should n't do anything . It should n't even smoke . Something is wrong with the seasoning on your pan . From the fact that its smoking , I 'd guess its not sufficiently baked on . Alternatively , maybe the pan was n't clean when you applied it . If its just not baked on , I 'd remove all the flaking bits ( with some harsh scrubbing , sand paper even ) , clean it thoroughly , then bring it to around 300 ° F ( stovetop or oven ) . This will make sure it is completely dry . Spread a thin layer of high-iodine value oil ( flax seed is great , soy is pretty good and cheap and easy to find : look for the bottle that just says vegetable oil and check the ingredients , it 's probably soy ) . Spreading is easy with a paper towel . Next , toss into a very hot oven , 400 -- 500 , smoking is expected . Bake for 90 minutes , then turn the oven off . Allow pan to cool with oven . Once its cool , touch it . If its at all tacky , put it back in the oven , and bake for another hour ( once again , allowing to cool with oven ) . It should be a shiny black at this point , and not at all tacky . You can repeat the process to add more layers . Two should be reasonably non-stick to start cooking on . If it still peels off after this , you 're probably going to need to strip the seasoning and re-season the pan , after stripping it to bare metal . See <URL> to season it from bare metal .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
I give my coffee maker an internal cleanse with vinegar and water once a month to avoid scale build-up . I use 1/2 cup of white vinegar plus water to make a full pot , run that through my maker two or three times , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker until there is no longer any scent of the vinegar . I clean the pot and its basket and insert once a week in the dishwasher , and wipe down the case and heating element daily . I 've been using the same drip coffee maker ( with its glass , dishwasher-safe pot ) for about five years . On those occasions when I 've run out of white vinegar , I use a tablespoon of citric acid dissolved in the first few cleaning pots of water , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker . Citric acid is just as effective as white vinegar for descaling but does n't smell as strong ; it 's also inexpensive .
They do change color , just not so obviously as normal bananas . There 's a slight greenish tint that disappears as they ripen , and the red becomes a bit deeper ( some people say purplish ) . They also get softer - including the skin getting more tender , just like yellow banana skin . Just think about how bananas feel when ripe , feel your red bananas , and ( perhaps with a tiny bit of trial and error ) you can figure it out .
Let 's assume you just want a little flavor added to a potato salad without too much texture . After swirling the stalks under water and shaking off excess drops , pat with kitchen paper or cloth ( does n't bruise easily ) . Pluck off small clumps of the hairy leaves from the tougher stalk ; this is completely subjective as to how much stalk needs to be eliminated . Chop . The more stalk is removed , the courser/longer the chopping in general is -- up to a cm long . Also , the more dill is added to recipe , the finer it should be chopped ( avoid the feeling of eating grass ) . if a good deal is used , then stir into the mayonnaise first ; if it is just of a garnish quantity , then sprinkle on top of mixed pot salad .
end question
start question
Can I add uncooked noodles directly to soup ?
similar to what julio said , the main reason is that typical wheat-based noodles release a lot of starch into the water , which changes the consistency of the soup . the starches can add a dirty colour to the water , but more than that , they can also thicken the soup undesirably ( think of making a roux ) . Finally , if there are leftovers , the noodles can sometimes become completely water logged , making eating it the next day a bit of a soggy experience . That said , with all these considerations there are times when you might add the noodles directly in -- non-starchy noodles ( eg . like rice noodles ) seem to do ok . also parboiling regular pasta before hand seems to help a lot with the starch and can still help you achieve the flavour integration you mentioned .
Fresh herbs should , generally , be added closer to the end of a recipe . Dried herbs should be added fairly early on during the cooking process so that they have time to " develop " and more fully release their flavors . Fresh herbs and spices , however , will generally have more subtle flavors , and they are usually best used for seasoning at the very end of the recipe , rather than actual cooking . You can check out more details about how to use different kinds of spices in <URL> . For your specific case , I would say to definitely add the basil in at the end -- maybe five or ten minutes before the sauce is finished , as you said . It may even be a good idea to remove the pot from your heat source after you have added the basil so that the herbs can infuse their flavor without actually cooking into the sauce . You have to be careful not to cook too much of the flavor out with fresh herbs . If they simmer too long with the rest of the dish the subtle flavors can be easily overpowered by other ingredients .
Traditionally , for almost all of my recipes , the vanilla is added as soon as you remove the pot from the heat . You definitely want the heat to meld the vanilla flavor with the fats , but you do n't want to cook it . I would highly recommend splitting the bean lengthwise and either adding them that way to allow milk access to the flavorful seeds , or simply add the seeds alone . I 'd opt for the former , and fish out the husks after the sauce/pudding has cooled . Or , as you say , use ground vanilla bean as-is and you 're all set .
Soup freezes great in my experience . To freeze it for long term storage , you 'll probably want it to be vacuum sealed . In order to do this I freeze individual sized portions in Tupperware-style containers ( make sure to leave enough room for expansion ) , and as soon as they 're solid , vacuum seal those large " cubes " . They generally stack pretty nicely in our garage freezer . In general soups should thaw and taste very good , some flavors even seem become stronger or seem to enhance and meld better with the freezing . If you vacuum seal them as above you can throw them ( still sealed ) into a pot of boiling water for hot soup relatively fast ! As an aside , another great option with a leftover turkey frame would be to save it with previous odds and ends ( carrot/celery ends , onion pieces , etc ) in the freezer , and when you have enough make a simple stock . You can then freeze the stock into cubes ( in ice cube trays ) for soup-making later , sauteeing veggies , in place of water for more flavorful rice , and a ton of other things .
Adding flavors to the water will not transfer to the vegetables . Steam is a poor medium for flavor as water carries almost nothing with it when it becomes gas . There are a few very good methods to add some flavor to steamed veggies , so you can just use one of those ! You can add herbs and other aromatics to the veggies This works best with fresh herbs , but a few sprigs of rosemary or a few leaves of basil in contact with your steamed veggies will get some good flavor action . Alternately , mixing them in right after you take the veggies off the steam will let the residual heat of the veg to bring out the flavors in the herbs . Other things that work well is cooking your veggies on a bed of orange peels or lemon peels to add some citrus flavor . Add oil , plus any flavors you want to infuse into the oil Once you have steamed your veggies , hit them with a light drizzle of oil . I make a chili-infused olive oil that I toss my steamed carrots in that is always a huge hit . There are wide array of lipid soluble flavors that you can infuse your oil with . Compound butters are great , but so is just butter Animal fats added after cooking almost always turn ho-hum into yum-yum . Butter has long been the french way to add a bunch of subtle flavor to a side dish . You do n't have to use a ton , normally a light toss is enough to make a difference . Compound butter is just butter with herbs chopped in and it gives you the double whammy when you use it . Any ground spice You can also just shake some ground spices on . Pepper , curry powder , cinnamon , pretty much anything that sprinkles and fits the profile you are looking for will work . If your spices are fresh ground , you will get even more taste for your buck . If you are boiling your veggies , your options open up . Most root veggies will take on the flavor of whatever you cook them in , so using stock or vegetable broth can add some flavor . Vegetables that you cook with each other in a pot of boiling water will also get some transference among themselves . That 's the basis for a large number folk dishes like New England Boil and the reason Cajuns always throw some taters and corn in with the crawfish .
It depends on what kind of settings your crock pot has . A low simmer on the stove is probably equivalent to something fairly low on your slow cooker , though . If all you have is warm , low , and high , you want low - in some cases it might be too hot , though . You 're aiming for just short of boiling , so a setting that gets you a few bubbles now and then is good . More than that and you 're cooking a bit vigorously , and on a " warm " setting you likely are n't heating it enough to cook properly and stay safe . If you have some kind of continuous settings , you can possibly adjust to get exactly where you want !
The Maggi noodles you link to are just average ramen noodles , so can be cooked in the microwave quite easily . Boil a kettle of water Place the noodles in a microwavable bowl . You may need to break the noodles into pieces , but if you 're careful with the boiling water you can sometimes soften the noodles in the middle enough to fold the block to make it all fit without breaking Pour the flavour sachet ( and any other curry powder/herbs ) onto the dry noodles Pour the boiling water onto the noodles , enough to cover the noodles , and if desired , a bit more for a bit of a soup Put into the microwave , you can cover with a loose lid if desired , and microwave for around 2 minutes Stir the noodles , separating any stuck-together blocks of noodles Put back into the microwave for another 2-3 minutes ( depending on your microwave 's power ) I usually cook these kind in the microwave , since if I 'm eating them I 'm not usually in the mood for a proper cooking session . They do ( depending on the kind of noodle ) sometimes turn out slightly different when done in the microwave , as compared to boiling on hob , but both are nice as a snack .
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
Your main sources of flavour in any Chinese-style noodle dish will be : Garlic Ginger Chilli Spring Onion/Scallion Soy sauce Oyster sauce Rice wine / dry sherry Sesame oil Sesame oil has a very distinctive ' Chinese ' flavour . It is very strong so you only need a little . You should not use it for frying - think of it more like a seasoning . Add a teaspoon or so at the end of cooking and stir through .
The modern way is still to sieve . I actually did this a couple of days ago . I made a sauce out of boiled onions , capiscums , chilli peppers , canned plum tomatoes , carrots , garlic , ginger and spices . This was then whizzed in a blender and sieved through a fine metal sieve to remove the pulp , seeds , large fibrous pieces that wer n't blended . It makes for a smoother sauce . The fine metal sieves are fairly cheap and easy to obtain . There are also finer sieves made from plastic or even muslin you can also use . The technical term seems to be <URL> A food mouli :
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
This is not a defect but a characteristic of pea-soup . In Holland , the pea-soup is considered good when a wooden spoon can be put upright in the pot . I 've never eating it that thick myself , though . The starches and the gelatin will form a mesh when cooling , so the consistency of the pea-soup will always be thick when cold . On heating , do what Mien advised : add some water or broth to the soup to the consistency that you want . You will have to heat slowly because otherwise the soup will stick to the bottom of the pan and burn . Do n't forget to thoroughly heat the soup and let is simmer for at least 10 ' to kill any unwanted visitors ( germs ) before serving .
In meatballs or meat loaf or even burgers , breadcrumbs are sometimes added with egg . The bread , if unseasoned , does n't change the flavor much except to dilute it . The texture is definitely different . It is smoother and spongier . The breadcrumbs also soak up liquid so the product does n't lose as much and stays moister . Purists often decry the use of breadcrumbs in things like burger patties . For myself - I will add breadcrumbs when I am in the mood for the breadier texture - often when I will be adding extra liquid flavorings like Worcestershire or liquid smoke and want to strengthen the structure a bit .
Even if you just pull them out for about 30 minutes once you get home that will be better than not letting sit out at all . The main benefit is that it will cook easier and you 'll have a natural gradation from brown to pink on the inside rather than the gray color that often occurs . I myself do n't typically pull meat out an hour before cooking it . But As long as they have n't previously been sitting out for an extended period of time , most likely you 'll be ok for 1 1/2 hours since the steaks will be cold when set out . Make sure that they remain tightly wrapped/covered to minimize exposure to air .
Yes and no ; in smaller quantities ; no problem . If you sit down in the morning and eat bowl daily ; you will cause some serious long term issues . Raw flour is full of lectins and phytates ; which can pose a danger in higher amounts ; damage the lower GI and cause IBS ; other issues Nutrient problems can develop from the raw flour intake at higher amounts Bacteria standpoint ; no problem ; eat away . As the comment mentioned ; some fresh pasta could be harmful because of the raw egg .
Anything airtight is fine . If the sheets will fit in a Ziploc , that would be perfect . Another option that would certainly be big enough is a bread bag , well sealed . If you still have the box the pasta came in , you can put the bag inside the box to give the pasta a small measure of protection against breakage . I checked with <URL> and they did n't have anything to really add to that .
It 's not too much water that makes them soggy , it 's cooking them for too long in the water . Thin noodles are virtually done as soon as they break out of their dry , tablet shape . As soon as this happens , take a noodle out and test it . Remember that cooking will continue even after you drain the noodles . You should drain the noodles well in a colander . If you are planning on stir frying the noodles , you need to first wash the starch off them - run the cold water tap over them and circulate it through the noodles with your hand ( carefully , they might still be hot in the middle ) . They then need to be dried as much possible - spread them out on a board , pat with paper towel , and leave for ten minutes or so before stir frying ( preferably in an empty wok - cook the rest of the stir fry first , then empty it , cook the noodles , and re-add the meat etc. )
To sweeten it , add your favorite sweetener : sugar , honey , agave ... whatever you prefer . This is important , because sweetness will help bring out the flavor of the fruit . General advice : If you have a fruit you want in your yogurt , pick the form ( chunks , pureed , mashed , juice ) that you want and mix it in . The Chobani yogurts appear have a variety of these forms , always along with some sugar . If you want banana flavor , sure , mash up a banana and mix it in . Or if you want chunks of fruit , chop it up . Assuming the fruit is soft enough , for this purpose , mashing with a fork is probably a good substitute for pureeing ; you 'll get some small chunks and some juice . In response to the updates : if you want actually fruit-flavored yogurt , then you need juice and/or puree . If you do n't have any other tools , mash it as best as you can . If you have a small food processor or blender that will work with small enough quantities ( or are making big batches ) , blend things up and stir them in . Juice and puree will disperse quite well through the yogurt . Bananas mash easily , especially ripe ones , so just do that with a fork . Strawberries are n't as soft , but you should get enough juice to flavor with if you mash them . Pineapple is tougher . If it 's juicy enough , you can probably get some juice out by mashing it ; otherwise you might be better off with a food processor or blender . ( If it 's from a can , you can use the liquid from the can , too - that might also have sugar in it . ) Depending on how thorough you are , you may want to use the juice and discard the fibrous parts that are left over .
It becomes quite confusing when talking about the difference between chow mein and lo mein mainly due to the error in translation . In Chinese chow mein literally translate as " fried noodles . " However when buying chow mein at a chinese restaurant , you get vegetables with a side of deep fried noodles . Somehow the title of a dish is referring the to side rather than the main dish which leads to much confusion . When talking about chow mein at a grocery store , it also gets confusing because you can get two types of noodles . The first kind is a fried noodle that looks something like this : This is definitely not what your recipe is referring to . The second type of chow mein you will find is very much similar to lo mein . It should be a raw noodles that is still semi-soft . It should look like this : If the chow mein you have at your grocery store resembles the second type of noodle , then you may use that as a substitute . If it resembles the first type , do n't . The first type is used as a topping sort of like chinese croutons .
There 's an old children 's story about making Stone Soup . In it , a penniless begger offers to teach people how to make his favorite recipe : soup , made from a stone ! He boils some water and drops a stone in , and while it 's " cooking " , keeps mentioning offhand things like " It 'd go great with some carrots " or " Celery would be lovely in this " . The townspeople rush off and get celery , carrots , potatoes , onions , and the like to add to the soup , until eventually , they 've made proper soup in his pot along with the stone . So basically , the whole " stone soup " thing was a clever con game by which the begger can eat for free ( or , in kinder versions than the one I recall , to trick the townspeople into learning a lesson about sharing ) . The stone adds nothing to the soup .
end question
start question
Why is there a small piece of iron sponge in my electric water boiler ?
They are <URL> ( I do n't know what research has actually been done ) to prevent the build-up of limescale .
Use of a double boiler limits the maximum temperature the food being cooked can reach . The water in the lower part of the double boiler can only reach 100 * C ( 212 * F ) before it boils . The food being cooked , therefore , can only reach a maximum temperature of 100 * C ( 212 * F ) . It ca n't go over that until all the water in the lower pot has boiled off .
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
Could n't I just use a lower temperature setting ? No , you ca n't . Ovens are very bad at keeping a constant temperature . Not only is the oven thermostat usually off , it also cycles around its mean temperature a lot . So your food is subjected to constantly changing temperature . If you were to set your oven to 100C , you 1 ) wo n't get really 100C , and 2 ) wo n't get the crust to brown , as the temperature is too low . Instead , you can use the water bath described . In combination with a temperature setting higher than 100C , it will keep the bottom portion of the cheesecake at a constant temperature , and will allow the surface to bake well . You will see water bath ( i.e. <URL> ) recommendations for many types of baked goods , including custards . But when it comes to a cheesecake , it has a second function . At each temperature , there is an equilibrium moisture in the oven air . As long as the equilibrium has not been reached , moisture evaporates at a high rate from every moist surface ( your baking good ) . When this happens to a cheesecake , its top cracks . But when you have an open water surface , it is sufficient to saturate the air , and no ( or very little ) evaporation happens on the cake surface . You end up with a smooth cheesecake .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
You can use a solution of vinegar and water to descale your kettle ( unless , as hobodave mentioned , the manufacturer advises against using vinegar ) . Fill your kettle with water until it 's half full ; add about 1/2 cup of vinegar to the water , and then allow it to boil for about 10 minutes . Allow the water to cool and unplug your kettle . Gently scrub away the scale with a non-metallic pad ( do n't scrub the heating element if it 's exposed ; wipe that with a sponge ) . Rinse your kettle several times after removing the scale , and then boil one or two fillings of water in it to ensure that you remove all traces of the vinegar .
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
As the oven heats up , the bacon will slowly warm , and slowly start to render its fat . This minimizes the curling from shrinkage . It is not absolutely necessary , and makes the total time to the bacon being done shorter , if you start timing from when the oven is turned on . For more insight , see the various answers to <URL>
A quick search seems to suggest it 's a liquid emulsifier . It 's not the most natural of products : a couple of E-numbers and propylenes in there . <URL> Click across to Cake Gel Improvers .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
The purpose for cleaning with salt is that it is an abrasive , and helps remove anything sticking to the pan , without being harsh enough to remove the seasoning . Its not a stop-gap measure for poor seasoning ; it is intended to preserve the seasoning . The main issue is avoiding soaps and detergents which would tend to remove the seasoning that makes cast iron fairly non-stick .
Some ingredients do not dissolve well in hot water - the starch swells and thickens , forming lumps that may have raw powder in them and are nasty . They need to be added to cold or lukewarm water and heated after they are dissolved . Other ingredients , most notably pasta , will partially dissolve in cold water making a thick gloppy soup . But if you add them to hot water they will " seal " ( in a way ) and stay together as they cook .
I 'm going to assume that " country style ribs " are the ones where you cut them apart first before cooking ... I 'd wager a guess that everything is near bone , and a thermometer might have problems with this particular dish . If nothing else , as you ca n't insert it deeply enough into the thing you 're taking a measurement of , there might be enough conduction along the probe for the oven temperature to throw off the reading . Could you tell us how far the probe was in the meat ? I 'd assume anything less than about 1/3 the probe might be problematic , with 1/2 or more being better . ... All of that being said , are you sure it 's an issue with the placement of the probe , and not a problem with the probe itself ? I 've had a number of them go out over the years . I 've actually given up on them , and gone back to an instant read thermometer , as I 'm up to 4 of the bases ( can still use 'em as a timer ) , and no working probes . ( if anyone knows any brands that sell the replacement probes individually , or even better in multi-packs , I 'd be willing to go back to using them ) To calibrate -- mix some ice water , and put the probe in there . It should read 32F or 0C . ( if it even goes that low , not all do ) . Boil water , and read the temperature of it , and it should read near 100C or 212F ( possibly lower , if you 're above sea level ) . Compare it to another room thermometer after it 's been sitting for a bit ... they should read the same . Do n't try to put it into the oven directly ... you could melt the probe ... that 's how I lost the first one , so you ca n't try to compare it to your oven thermometer .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
Personally when ever I do Swiss rolls or anything requiring me to roll or manipulate the sponge in any way I 'll use a Genoise sponge recipe . It 's a bit more effort to make than a bog standard pound cake recipe but worth it . While still warm I 've managed to roll it anywhere between 2mm thick and 3cm with little or no cracks or splits . In my opinion the optimum thickness for a full sized Swiss roll is around 1cm thick , but obviously if making canape sized versions you 'll be looking more towards the 2mm thickness .
When I made scones for the first time , I also found the taste a bit unusual . The recipe I used specified a total of 11 g baking powder and baking soda per 250 g flour , and also 5 g salt . I used less salt , but the taste is definitely unusal for people accustomed to continental Kleingebäck . I can see two reasons for this . First , the dough for scones is quite unusual , something between cookie and pastry . It is a lot tougher than the usual soda-leavened dough . So I guess that it needs additional leavening power in order to create a light texture , unlike the semiliquid batters which raise without a problem . Plus , it gets no help from egg whites the way some cakes do ( in fact , my recipe specified egg yolks only ) . The second point is one you already mentioned in the question . It seems that the English tradition is to eat scones with cream and jam . I tried it with my own scones , and the combination was quite good . I do n't eat much jam , as it is too sweet for my taste , but the pairing with the bland scones was really nice . A sweeter or richer vehicle would have made the whole thing overwhelming .
I 've sometimes made small reductions in the microwave . Just put the liquid in a much deeper container than it fits in so it does n't make a mess , and run it on 50 % power , check every 30 seconds or so until it is reduced to the degree you need .
Black stuff on a cast iron skillet is most likely just a thin layer of burned food . It 's not horribly dangerous ( I 'm sure you 've eaten some charred things before ) but it does make your food look worse , so you may as well just keep your skillet clean and well-seasoned and avoid it .
They are <URL> ( I do n't know what research has actually been done ) to prevent the build-up of limescale .
end question
start question
Can you use just egg yolks when recipe asks for eggs ?
It really does depend on the recipe . Egg yolks have some protein but a lot of fat which adds flavor and makes baked goods more tender and moist . Whites are just protein which adds structure and has a drying effect . If the particular recipe is depending on the eggs for the binding power of their protein you may not get enough by substituting just yolks . Remember that the volume of the yolks is less than whole eggs so you may see better success substituting two whole eggs with three yolks . Some cakes will handle the reduced protein . White and yellow cakes will be ok . Pound cakes will also be fine and in fact some recipes call for only yolks . Expect your cake to be a little denser , softer , and tastier . Any kind of sponge or angel food cake wo n't work because they rely wholly on the protein from the whites . Soft , rich breads will also benefit from the added fat . The breads will derive their structure from the gluten in their flour . Cinnamon rolls and rich doughnuts come to mind . A local doughnut shop is famous for the yellow color which comes from using fresh yolks . <URL> Yolks can be used in many recipes that call for whole eggs . Look for recipes that will benefit from all the added fat . Anything custard-like , where the eggs are mixed with milk , will work very well - even better than with whole eggs in fact . Examples are custard , flan , puddings , french toast , etc. . Given the season you might consider a custard-based ice cream .
Simmering uncovered serves two purposes . The first is liquid reduction . Simmering with a lid on causes condensation on the inside of the lid that will drip back into the food . If you 're trying to reduce the liquid , the steam needs to be able to evaporate away . The second purpose is temperature regulation . With a lid on , the heat wo n't dissipate quickly enough and your food will eventually advance beyond a simmer and potentially throw off what you 're making .
It really does depend on the recipe . Egg yolks have some protein but a lot of fat which adds flavor and makes baked goods more tender and moist . Whites are just protein which adds structure and has a drying effect . If the particular recipe is depending on the eggs for the binding power of their protein you may not get enough by substituting just yolks . Remember that the volume of the yolks is less than whole eggs so you may see better success substituting two whole eggs with three yolks . Some cakes will handle the reduced protein . White and yellow cakes will be ok . Pound cakes will also be fine and in fact some recipes call for only yolks . Expect your cake to be a little denser , softer , and tastier . Any kind of sponge or angel food cake wo n't work because they rely wholly on the protein from the whites . Soft , rich breads will also benefit from the added fat . The breads will derive their structure from the gluten in their flour . Cinnamon rolls and rich doughnuts come to mind . A local doughnut shop is famous for the yellow color which comes from using fresh yolks . <URL> Yolks can be used in many recipes that call for whole eggs . Look for recipes that will benefit from all the added fat . Anything custard-like , where the eggs are mixed with milk , will work very well - even better than with whole eggs in fact . Examples are custard , flan , puddings , french toast , etc. . Given the season you might consider a custard-based ice cream .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
Firstly , it strikes me as odd that your recipe has no raising agent - no baking powder , no bicarbonate/baking soda , no self-raising flour . Unless you 're whipping a lot of air into the batter , the cakes will barely rise , and you will end up with ' cookies ' . I would add 2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) and see if that helps . As for the temperature of your oven , I would n't go so far as to halve the temperature and double the time . The idea is that you need enough heat for the cakes to rise at a decent rate then form a crust on the outside . 100 degrees will do little but slowly dry the cakes out . Domestic ovens are rarely well calibrated , so your oven may be running hotter than the dial indicates . Invest in an oven thermometer to make sure you are setting the temperature correctly : I have had an oven run 40 degrees hotter than the dial said before now ! If you have n't got the time to get a thermometer , try setting the oven about 20 degrees cooler on the dial , to around 180 degrees .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
Capers are generally very salty , and not what you want as a peppercorn substitute . I think that black/white/red / madagascar peppercorn would be a fine substitute . The distinction between the different pepper flavours is very subtle , and not one to worry about much .
Yes , the freshness is the factor . In the US eggs are sold in three grades : AA , A , and B ( rare ) . The grading is based primarily on age . AA are the freshest , and B the oldest . Here is a diagram depicting the internals of an egg : The characteristics of the freshest eggs are : A large thick albumen ( white ) A small thin albumen A sturdy thick chalaze A small air space A sturdy round yolk when lying flat As the egg ages the following things happen : Thick albumen breaks down , getting smaller Thin albumen gets larger Chalazae degrades getting thinner and weaker Air space increases Yolk membrane weakens , when cracked it lies flatter Embryo may become visible as a red speck As a result of the weakening membrane the yolk is indeed easier to break . Michael 's suggestion to use your fingers to separate the eggs is spot on . The edge of an egg shell is a little too risky for reliable separation of eggs .
It will definitely make a difference . Yolks contain various things like fats and emulsifiers that affect the flavor and texture of baked goods . If you want more details , then tell us what you 're baking .
Do n't wrap the chicken in foil . Instead you can use a steamer basket inserted in a pot with the lid on ( making sure your liquid does not touch the chicken ) and steam it that way . If you do n't have a steamer basket and what you are trying to do is replace one , instead of wrapping the chicken roll that foil into balls or strips and use it to elevate the chicken above the cooking liquid in your pot . If you wrap in foil , the chicken will be cooking via the heat transfer from the foil rather than from the steam .
Well , it makes the eggs go further for one ... But it also produces softer , creamier results . You 're moving toward something like a custard or quiche . If you like your eggs very stiff , this is probably a bad idea .
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
The notion that salt or spices specifically do n't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me . In any recipe involving salt and water , the salt is dissolved , so all that matters is the concentration , and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling . Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x . When you take into account that : Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat , humidity , and other environmental conditions , so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale ; Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio ; that part is correct , but it has nothing to do with salt , it has to do with your equipment . On the stovetop , most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction , and even in an oven you 've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern . Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation . The total amount of heat you 're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver , so very often you need to increase cooking times . I 'm sure you probably already know all this , but the reason I 'm pointing it all out is that I 'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues . Probably , salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes , and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time , so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy , especially with volumetric measurements , is actually pretty noticeable at large scale . Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense . Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements , and you scale by weight , then you 're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly . I suppose I could be wrong , but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry ; you 'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true .
The function of the chord , that is attached to the yolk , is to hold the yolk into place . To have the most uniform baking possible , you remove the chord . However , I never do . I keep it in with the rest of the whites and I 've never had any problems with the finished products . So you can : toss it keep it with the yolk ( a little bit of whites with the yolk is not bad , the other way around is ) keep it with the whites since it does not contain fat , it will not stop the whites from being whipped It 's up to you .
<URL> I am ready to mess up with its skin , but if I cut it up totally , the yellow yolk will get lost in the gravy . Yesterday I did an experiment : After properly hard boiling the eggs , I shelled them and cut them into two parts vertically . I fried these sliced eggs on both sides in around 3 ( 6 ml ) spoons oil in a semi circle wok . No , the yolk did n't get lost in the oil . It was all intact in the sliced eggs . I fried all the spices etc. in the wok , and added the water as needed . Now , as a final step , I carefully placed the fried sliced eggs in the same wok [ with the yolk side facing up ] , covered with a lid , and let it boil on simmer gas for some minutes . This time the spices did get inside the egg yolk , and also the yolk was completely intact . Since the eggs are sliced , pressure cooker usage may cause the yolk to dismantle . An open vessel usage is a must in this case . It is also necessary to keep the yolk side facing up when you place the eggs in the curry for the final boil up to keep them intact . <URL>
Someone made an instructable on how to make what they call a Japanese Golden Egg ( although a search for that just gave me lots of hits on Angry Birds ) ; they spin the egg quickly , breaking up the internal structure , and then boil it to get a scrambled-egg-colored boiled egg . <URL>
Here 's a website that goes into it and includes a picture of the gizmo to which you refer : <URL> " This little single serving device is meant to fit over a cup , hold about two tablespoons worth of coffee , and the required amount of water for brewing . There is a screen on the bottom , and a plunger with another screen on it that screws down on top of the coffee to smush it between the two filters . The tightness of this top filter controls the strength of the coffee . The tighter it is , the slower water flows , and the stronger the brew . " EDIT : Regarding the " bonus question " : I 'm not aware of chicory as an ingredient in Vietnamese/Thai iced coffee , I 'm only familiar with it as a traditional New Orleans addition , having migrated from France . It became a popular substitution during the French Revolution when coffee became prohibitively expensive . I dug up a recipe for New Orleans chicory coffee <URL> . " Ingredients 1 lb . coarsely ground coffee , 1 1/2 oz . roasted and chopped chicory , 2 1/2 quarts water , 3 oz . simple syrup , Tools Large stockpot , Wooden spoon , Fine-mesh sieve , Large Mason jar , Combine the ground coffee , chicory and water in a stockpot . Stir with a wooden spoon , cover and let steep at room temperature for 8-12 hours . Carefully break the crust of the coffee grounds with a spoon and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into the Mason jar . Add simple syrup to concentrate and stir to combine . Serve over ice and add milk to taste -- most people opt for about a 50/50 ratio of milk to chicory-coffee concentrate . Keep refrigerated and use within 1-2 days . Yields 4-5 cups of concentrate .
Try this : <URL> A container of oil is placed in a water bath that is held at a constant temperature . You can experiment with 62 - 65C to find what you prefer . Raw yolks are gently lowered into the oil and cook for about an hour . Remove gently with slotted spoon and serve . They can hold for a couple of hours , particularly if you use a lower initial temperature , then lower the temp to 60C after about an hour . If you do n't have a circulator , I am sure you can experiment and achieve similar results in a simmering pot of water .
When we have had garlic in our garden I have used the garlic leaves . They do have a garlicky flavor but are milder than garlic cloves . I tend to use them more as I would chives or garlic chives as in addition to having the milder flavor than the cloves they make for a quite nice presentation . Regarding drying them , I have never tried it . Off the top of my head I ca n't think of any reason not to dry them for later use but there may be issues that I just do n't know about .
I cook 'em on medium-high heat in butter until they 're browned and crisped to my liking . I do n't cover - that seems to result in soggier mushrooms than I prefer .
end question
start question
How much tea is ideal out of one tea bag ?
After looking into this much longer than a sane person should have , I 've realized that the strength of the tea does n't depend so much on the quantity of tea . Controlling the strength of tea is normally done by controlling the steeping time . As stated by paul , the best way to dilute the strength of a tea is by resteeping it . The steeping time of a tea is most determined by the coarseness of the tea leaves . Similar to garlic , finer leaves make the taste a lot stronger , whereas large , coarse leaves will be weaker . The instructions on the bag often say what 's been tried and tested . Quite often , one tea bag can make quite a lot of tea , enough for a teapot . I 'd recommend going for two tea bags only if you 're planning to go for larger than a teapot , for tea suited to drinking by itself and with added ice , or with certain weaker teas . For black tea , the common steeping seems to be 2-3 minutes . There 's little harm in steeping too short , but steeping too long will create a harsh bitter taste ( though some people may actually want that ) . For cheap , harsh , unbranded teas , 3 minutes seems to be enough unless the leaves are finely chopped . Also , as bonus knowledge , steeping tea for 45 seconds then throwing away the water and resteeping it is a great way to decaffeinate tea . Do n't shake the tea bag or stir the drink while steeping it , because it will cause the harsh stuff to enter water faster , and black tea should be steeped at 98 degrees C.
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
TL ; DR = The sweet tea takes longer to cool down because there is a lot more stuff in it to get cold . When cooling unsweetened tea , you are cooling almost pure water ( the tea solids are negligible ) . A 12 ounce glass of unsweetened tea has about , you guessed it , 12 oz ( by weight ) of liquid to cool , or 340 grams ( mass ) . Southern-style sweet tea ( if this is the " sweet tea " you are referring to ) , has a 2:1 ratio ( by volume ) of tea to sugar . A 12 ounce glass of sweet tea has 12 oz ( by weight ) of tea , and 5-6 ounces of sugar ( by weight - 8 oz of sugar by volume = ~ 7 oz by weight ) . This puts the total weight of the beverage at 18 ounces or 510 grams ( by mass ) . The sweet tea , in this example , has 50 % MORE mass than the unsweetened tea ! This extra mass will take more time to cool down , because there is a lot more STUFF to get cold . It occupies the same volume , but there are a LOT more molecules to chill . Compounding factors : Heat Capacity vs. Specific Heat : A detail to this is that a solution of sugar and water has a lower specific heat ( by MASS unit ) than pure water , so the total heat capacity of the sweet tea is not quite 150 % of the heat capacity of the unsweetened tea , but somewhere between 100 % and 150 % . Intuition would put it somewhere in the 130 % -140 % range . Read the <URL> for some details on that calculation . Rest assured , however , that the heat capacity of the sucrose solution is higher than pure water . Conductivity : I 've ignored the thermal conductivity of the solution , since I 'm assuming that the stirring in the tea makes the small conductivity differences between the solutions negligible , but that calculation could be done as well . Convection : Unstirred sweet tea will experience less convection than unstirred unsweetened tea . In the unstirred sweet tea , dense sucrose solution will remain at the bottom while the cold water from the melting ice will sit on the surface ( you can actually see this visually if the tea is sufficiently colored ) . This slows cooling by slowing the mixing of the cold liquid with the warm liquid . In unsweetened tea the cool liquid will sink the bottom , promoting convection and self-mixing . However , convection is a side-issue to the primary point , the total heat capacity of the beverage . And as a final note , explanations like this really make it obvious how annoying it is that US measurements use ounces for both volume AND weight .
I just noticed that your recipe uses water . That 's an ideal way to get tea flavor into things - you can replace it with concentrated tea . Assuming you use teabags , you should be able to steep two in that 2/3 cup of water . Tea is a fairly subtle flavor , so you may not taste it too much in the bread , but this is easy and doable with what you have ! There 's also instant tea , if you want to try to boost it - but it of course wo n't be as good as real , fresh tea . ( You could buy chai concentrate , but I think it 's usually about double strength , so not really better than you 'll do on your own . ) I 'd then replace the spices normally in your recipe with chai spices . If you 've ever made chai from scratch , you could use that recipe as a guide , but it sounds like you might not have . There 's an awful lot of variety here , from region to region , and in Western variations ; you could search around online for chai recipes that appeal to you . I 'm not an expert ( I 'm from Texas ! ) but from what I know , here are some common spices , with the most standard ones toward the top : cardamom cinnamon fresh ginger black pepper fennel cloves Cardamom is pretty much required , and that 'll help give you a flavor very different from your usual spice blend . I 'd mix/grind up the spices separately from the rest , smell them to see if they 're what you 're looking for , and adjust as needed before mixing into the rest . Aiming for a similar total volume of spices to that of the original recipe should work fairly well . It might be a bit spicier , since you 'll also have the tea , but that 's probably fine . ( Fresh ginger obviously wo n't go with the dry spices , if you use it - maybe a teaspoon or two minced ? )
<URL> is a report entitled " Change in sodium content of potato , pasta and rice with different cooking methods " . So the " scientific answer " is : The sodium content in pasta cooked with different levels of salt increased approximately linearly with the amount of salt added to the cooking water . Pasta cooked in 4g salt/100g raw took up on average 28 mg Na/100g whereas when cooked in 40g/100g raw this increased approximately 10 fold to 230 mg Na/100g . HTH ! PS : This may help you forget the Na intake temporally
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
One trend I 've seen recently is making tea broths/sauces for meats , fishes , etc. . . Besides being a good use for tea , this has the double effect of giving off the tea 's natural aroma when presented to the eater as opposed to simply using the tea to crust a meat - where you would n't really get any tea flavor until you actually bit in . I 've also seen people smoking meats with tea leaves and such . I have n't tried this myself to see if the results are worth the trouble ( aka - if you can actually taste the tea flavor ) . I would also try poaching various items in a matcha tea poaching liquid . For example : Water Sugar + salt Matcha tea powder Peppercorns Bay leaves Whatever else sounds good to you . You could use this to poach chicken and fish . Lastly , do n't be afraid to add it to soups ! Carrot-ginger soup would benefit from the addition of some matcha powder .
By maximising first the flavour of every single nut and then maximising the surface : Gently roast the cashews , then grind them finely . If the resulting " gritty " texture is not to your taste , grind them further until you get a nut butter , which should dissolve nicely especially in cream-type soups .
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
As posted in comments by members of the community ( and adding my own ) , several tips can help you get good warm tea in your thermos at wake-up : Choose loose leaves instead of tea bags to avoid tea dust that would overinfuse your tea in the thermos . The small amount there is in tea bags , is heavy enough to sink to the bottom very quickly , so if you pour the tea slowly into your thermos , you can discard it . You can also rinse the tea before brewing with cold water to help expel any excess dust , or ( as done in many tea-drinking countries ) throw out the first cup of tea made with new tea leaves . If you 're just using tea bags , why not just keep the thermos bedside and then toss the tea bag in in the morning ? You could try heating cold-infused and strained tea in the evening and put it into the thermos ; it has a brewing time of 8 to 12 hours , so you 'd have to start this around noon . If you have a microwave close enough to your bed , you could also use cold infusion to make your tea during the night and then give it a blast in the microwave in the morning .
It 's hard to know exactly what you 're referring to without any context of the event , location , or what you remember it tasting like , so I 'll give you my best educated guesses . If your pink tea sweet and fruity or floral , it was an herbal tea - <URL> , and not true tea . ( " Tea " actually refers to the plant whose leaves are used the beverage . Anything that is not made from the tea tree is usually called a tisane . ) Some varieties of tisanes that produce a pink liquid include hibiscus , rose petals , rose hips , strawberry . If the above is not the case , I suspect you 're referring to Kashmiri pink tea , sometimes called noon chai . Disclaimer : I ca n't find any authoritative sources about Kashmiri online ; my knowledge of the subject is anecdotal from my own travels in India as well as stories from people I know who have lived or traveled in South Asia . My understanding is that , like masala chai throughout South Asia , pink tea has some general guidelines but everyone customizes it according to taste or local custom . The basic distinguishing factors of Kashmiri pink tea compared to a " regular " black , green , oolong , or white tea are twofold : color and taste . As you mentioned , this tea is pink in color , which other beverages made from the tea tree are not . The pink color comes from the addition of baking soda . As for taste , pink tea tends to elicit mixed opinions about taste because it is salty ; most people around the world typically drink tea unadulterated , or sweetened , but rarely with the addition of salt . Pink tea shares many ingredients with <URL> , often including some or all of the following : Ginger Cardamom Cinnamon Peppercorns Milk or cream Sugar ( or other sweetener ) Unlike masala chai , which is normally prepared with black tea , Kashmiri pink tea uses green or oolong tea leaves . Ingredients included in Kashmiri chai that are not included in most other chai recipes : baking soda ( just a pinch ) ground pistachios and/or almonds salt white poppy seeds The final major difference is in the method of preparation . Masala chai can be made in a matter of minutes by boiling the water , then adding tea , milk , spices and boiling it all together for a few minutes before straining and serving . Kashmiri chai , on the other hand , takes 1-2 hours to prepare ( I believe the long boiling time is required for the baking soda to accomplish its task of turning the tea pink ) . I do n't know the exact process and could n't find any sources that seemed reliable .
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
I found the solution which suits me : I first boil the milk , water , and jaggery together in quantity mentioned in the question . After the mixture reaches boiling point , I switch off the gas stove and throw in 2 table spoons of tea . I close the lid of the vessel and let the it sit on the gas itself for 6 minutes . After 6 minutes , I strain the tea and the result is a non woody strong hot tea . I think it is important to let the covered vessel sit on the gas because otherwise the tea will cool off in 6 minutes .
One tablespoon is three teaspoons , so no , it ca n't be considered half a tablespoon because it 's one-third instead :) You can use three teaspoons to measure out one tablespoon , but it might be tricky to measure the other way : as Rumstacio said below , the 1/3 is by volume , and it can be difficult to eyeball the volume of a semi-sphere ( 1.3 the height of the spoon is not 1/3 the volume because it 's wider at the top ) .
What is wrong with a regular ice cube ? As you state that the tea is not yet ready , you just use slightly less water and then add the ice cube , which has a fixed temperature . I use this for large scale ice tea production . As I use 1:1 hot water : ice cubes I simply brew a double strong tea .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
There is a difference beyond just the price . All-Purpose flours are not the same : Southerners tend to make more quick breads , pies , cakes , etc. where tenderness is the primary quality factor . Southern brands of all-purpose flour such as White Lily , Martha White , Red Band , Adluh and others are typically milled from wheat that naturally has a lower gluten percentage . They also blend it to achieve an overall lower percentage . In addition , southern all-purpose flour is usually bleached , often with chlorine gas which weakens the gluten structure of the gluten in it and creates an acidic nature in the dough . Gluten does n't develop as easily in an acidic environment . On average , people living in the northeast/midwest tend to bake a lot more yeast-based products ( dinner rolls , cinnamon rolls , pumpernickel bread , rye , wheat , white , french bread , etc. ) which benefit from a higher gluten percentage . Northern/Midwest brands such as King Arthur , Hecker 's etc. tend to use wheat that has a higher gluten content for the milling of their flour and they typically leave it unbleached which allows the gluten to better develop during mixing/kneading . National brands such as Gold Medal and Pillsbury are being distributed across the country so they blend their flour to fall within the mid-range of gluten content . As for store brands , those that are national ( such as Kroger/safeway ) are probably being milled by the national flour mills and should probably perform about the same . If it 's a regional store brand ( such as Piggly Wiggly here in the south or Wegman 's in the Northeast ) I 'd be willing to bet that it probably falls within the scope of those regional types of milling practices . For a chart showing the range of gluten content for various types of flour from cake flour to bread flour ( including the all-purpose brands mentioned above ) see <URL> .
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
It can range on the size of the lemon and the time of year . A medium lemon will give 2-3 Tablespoons of juice , where a larger lemon can give 1/4 cup ( 4 Tablespoons ) . Just have to decide on much lemon flavor you want in your recipe as to which number you pick .
In this <URL> video he uses a " knob " of butter . It appears to be about 2 Tbsp . I do n't think it 's intended to be a specific term . You 'd never see " knob " used for baking , where exact amounts matter . When cooking , recipes tend to be a general guideline rather than a strict set of instructions .
end question
start question
Would baking a cake for 2 hours at 350 degrees F be safe to eat if it 's still moist ?
I ca n't see any possible way it did n't reach 138F inside after that length of time ! I think you just had way too much liquid .
It 's safe because freezing greatly slows ( if not completely arrests ) the growth of the bacteria that would otherwise make the meat spoil . It does n't kill them , it just puts them in ' stasis ' . The expiration date is given based on the meat only being refrigerated . If you intend to store the meat past its expiration date , best practice is to freeze the meat ASAP , and to use it within 24 hours of defrosting . The main hazard is in that defrosting . At no point should the chicken ( any part thereof ) be at room temperature for more than 2 hours . The safest method is to defrost the meat slowly in the fridge . You can also defrost it under cold running water , providing you keep it under the 2 hour mark . Of course , you can also cook the meat straight from frozen . There is absolutely nothing wrong with doing this for small cuts like chicken breasts . Slicing and cooking a partially defrosted chicken breast is perfectly safe , especially as it often easier to make really thin strips with semi-solid meat . You just have to be extra careful that the meat is at a safe temperature ( 170 ° F/75 ° C ) .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
All of those ingredients should be fine . The only thing you really have to worry about is shelf life , so make sure to buy fresh ingredients and check your expiration dates , especially on the baking powder and baking soda and the almonds . I would just tell them to use it within a year ( or the earliest expiration date ) . Oh yeah , and do n't put the baking powder and baking soda next to the brown sugar . There is n't a lot of water in it , but it might be enough to cause issue .
I have halved cake recipes before without issue . The most complicated thing to worry about is halving an odd number of eggs , but <URL> addresses that . The finished product was indistinguishable from the full recipe . Edit One thing to note . In your specific case , because it 's a two-layer cake , halving is simple because you 're only cooking a single layer . Halving other cakes , such as a pound cake , or a bundt cake involves adjustments to the cooking time . A halved cake will cook much quicker , and could possibly need a lower temperature as well as a decreased cooking time .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
After boiling for that period of time ( especially after sauteing ) , the gizzards have certainly reached a " safe " temperature . They are probably not really good eating though . Gizzards are a tough piece of meat . They benefit from a low and slow cooking process . Here 's a pretty good article from <URL> . Among other advice , they suggest braising ( or boiling ) first for 15 or so minutes , then searing at a very high heat . Here 's a pretty typical recipe for <URL> . It starts with simmering the gizzards for 45 minutes or longer , then cooling , then breading . Safety really is n't the issue here , or color ; after 15 minutes of boiling , you have well surpassed the USDA recommended temperature of 165F ( 74C ) . For good flavor though , they need more time . Traditionally , chicken or turkey giblets are cooked by simmering in water for use in flavoring soups , gravies or poultry stuffing . Once cooked , the liver will become crumbly and the heart and gizzard will soften and become easy to chop . Cooked giblets should have a firm texture . Casseroles containing giblets should be cooked to 165 ° F. Stuffing should also be cooked to 165 ° F. Chicken giblets are commonly fried or broiled . Leftovers should be refrigerated within 2 hours .
This is not a precise term , you can not go and buy " moist " and " dry " vanilla beans . But the pods can be prepared to different degrees of dryness , similar to prunes . And the ones with more remaining moisture have more taste and are generally higher quality . This is why they specify it . If you only have access to dry pods , I will still try out the recipe with them , just change the source for the next buy . Regarding the comment above , I have never had vanilla beans with a grade denoted on the packaging . But I have had both moist and dry ones , so it is n't a case of only one grade being marketed to end users . It is surely better if you can distinguish them based on some kind of grading , but chances are , you wo n't know what grade you are buying .
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
Moist salts are naturally harvested sea salts from which not all the water has been removed . They are noticeably wet , often caking up or forming more of a " slush " than a powder . Some aficionados only believe that sea salt is " real " and " natural " if it is moist . Me , I have enough humidity in the apartment .
I think this question is hard to answer exactly . The easiest way to estimate the duration of the steak in the oven is to cook the steak at ~ 260 ° C and after > 3 minutes each side ( altogether > 6 minutes ) to measure the inner temperature of the steak . 57-60 ° C should be medium rare . Of course this his method requires a thermometer . ( source : <URL> and <URL> )
They are okay to eat . The sprouts on the other hand can be very acidic and SHOULD NOT be eaten . As long as you make sure you wash the potato thoroughly you should n't have to worry .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
As long as you monitor each cake for doneness individually , there is no reason not to bake them together -- assuming they both need the same temperature . If the sizes are radically different ( in terms of the thinnest dimension , which is usually the depth ) you may need to adjust temperature to control crust formation during the time it takes the cakes through to the center . If the cakes are close in depth , they should bake in approximately equal times . You may wish to use cake strips or aluminum foil to protect the thing easily burned permiter of a hemispherical cake . Note that 150 C ( 300 F ) is an atypically low temperature for baking a cake . See related : <URL>
I think you 're a bit unclear what meningitis is . It is n't something like smallpox or salmonella , which are caused by a specific pathogen . Meningitis stands for an inflammation of the membranes covering the brain surface , and it can be caused by a number of pathogens . There is bacterial meningitis , viral meningitis , parasitic meningitis , and even meningitis where it is n't possible to find out what caused it . As such , it is just wrong to say that a food can be a " meningitis carrier " . If you want to say that every organism contaminated with a pathogen which can potentially cause meningitis is a " meningitis carrier " , then everything is a meningitis carrier , including the lips of your significant other . If a significant proportion of contacts with a " meningitis carrier " lead to meningitis , humanity would have died out before it discovered fire . So first , you ca n't react to such news as to a statement like " escargot can carry salmonella " . Second , if " meningitis carrier " was the real wording of your source , this is a red flag for its credibility . If the material which you read says that " escargot is sometimes contaminated with bacterium X , which has been known to cross the blood brain barrier in a big percentage of infected people and cause meningitis " , you should look up the combinations of time and temperature required for a 6-log10 reduction of this bacterium ( the USDA publishes such data ) and make sure that this temperature has been maintained at the core of the food for at least the time indicated . Just throwing into boiling water and waiting is n't enough , because you do n't know when the core of the food reaches the temperature prescribed . If your source does n't mention the type of pathogen , you ca n't assume that boiling will kill it . There are bacteria on Earth which proliferate in hot geysers , and while it is unlikely that they can both live in escargot and cause meningitis , making the assumption that boiling can kill any pathogen is reckless . If the source was credible , you need to hunt more information , until you know which pathogen is meant , then follow the previous paragraph . If your source was n't especially credible , something like a tabloid saying " A child ate escargot and landed in hospital with meningitis ! We will all die with our brains converted to swollen puss if we eat escargot !!! " , then it was some common pathogen which happened to somehow reach a victim 's brain in a single case . Disregard the meningitis scare , look up the guidelines for cooking escargot , and stick to them in order to eliminate the common pathogens contained in it . edit : now you have updated your question , it was possible to do some research . The parasite was the easy one . This paper is used as a basis for the safety guidelines of some government organs , e. g. the public health agency of Canada : <URL> . As it does n't say how the 2-3 minutes are measured , I 'd wait until the core of a snail is at 55 ° C , and measure at least 3 minutes after that ( or more , for added safety ) . This will make you safe from the parasite infection , which sometimes causes meningitis ( and is probably unpleasant even if it does n't reach the brain ) . As for bacteria , I did n't find any special information about escargot or any kind of land snails . As all the mentions of escargot and meningitis together I found pointed to the parasite as a cause , there probably is n't an escargot specific bacterium which causes meningitis or other unusual illness . So the usual food safety guidelines apply . Sadly , the various food safety organs of different countries do n't seem to have published specific guidelines for escargot ( maybe the French have , but I do n't speak French ) . You can use the guidelines for seafood , because for food safety purposes , <URL> Foodsafety.gov is a good place to start for the home cook - even if you do n't live in the USA , you can trust them to have chosen good guidelines . <URL> also contains good information , it lists 145 ° F internal temperature for seafood , but , strangely , no time period .
You should have no problem refrigerating the dough . I have done it with chapatti dough , which is essentially the same thing , without a problem . It 's only flour , water and salt after all . You might find it a little hard to roll out straight from the fridge but nothing some brute force and ignorance ( or letting it warm up a little ) wo n't cure .
They can be as young as 8 weeks , and up to a year or more . The preferred cooking method changes with age . <URL> of the ages/weights/options .
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
end question
start question
What 's the secret ingredient in beef jerky ?
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
I do agree with the comments about using the proper temperature and simmering . It can be difficult to achieve that perfect simmer , especially with a lidded pan , but quite worth the effort . Please see this from <URL> as it gives very good information about boiling and simmering and how to get to where you want to be . Another thing would be to check on it more frequently ( after achieving the simmer ) . 500 ml of liquid is not a huge amount , especially with a 2 - 3 hour cooking time . ( You will surely have some evaporation , even with a lidded pan , and the amount can vary from one time to another . ) If you see that the liquid is getting too low you can add more .
For my 2 cents , I 've never ever used a parchment lid in recipes that call for it . I think Joe 's explanation of the purported purpose is right , but I just ca n't see it making a whole lot of difference , and I 've never noticed any moisture problems in the dishes I 've made this way . I 'd love to hear from someone who says they can really see a difference having made a dish both ways .
If you just need the pulp ( for pie , ice cream , jam , etc. . . ) then cook them down and run them through a food strainer . If you need them raw , or halved/skins on , then find a good audiobook ...
I usually slit the prawn flesh just above and along the line of the vein to expose it and to make it easier to then pull out . This is different from butterflying a prawn , which involves a deeper cut ( but not all the way through ) of the prawn along most of its length along the same line as the de-veining cut , but also leaving the tail on usually . <URL> shows the de-veining technique and the butterflying .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
I do think there is a maximum to the duration of stewing a cut of beef . There is in my opinion such a thing as too tender and soft . If you plan to cook the meat as one large chunk you will have to add a little to your normal stewing time , but I would not go as high as 15 hours . Cooking and re-heating is quite an interesting option though , as quite a few dishes benefit from this in terms of flavour . Perhaps a <URL> on this subject , or a <URL> would be of interest to you . For me , the smaller the size of your chunks of meat , the more you should stick to your normal stewing time of 8 hours and the more you could consider making it a day early to enhance the taste .
Lactose intolerance ( which is different from a milk allergy , which is a smaller group ) comes in varying degrees , so this may be useful for people who can have a bit of lactose ( who can process casein fine ) . For example , many lactose intolerant people ( who often avoid dairy ) can handle non-dairy creamer fine ( and varying amounts of cheese ) , even though it has casein . Many cheese substitutes still do use casein . The parmesan adds glutemates to the mix , while casein gives a lot of <URL> to cheese ( like melting ability for real cheese ) .
You are correct in saying using color to determine doneness is less reliable in older meat . As the meat is exposed to air , it oxidizes giving it a brownish color . When checking for doneness , people sometimes see this oxidized brown color and mistaken it for being fully cooked through . However , this can occur for fresher meats also . According to the USDA using color is not recommended to determine the doneness of hamburgers . Some ground beef may appear to have lost all pink color before it is fully cooked . If raw ground beef is somewhat brown already , it may look fully cooked before it reaches a safe temperature . In some cases , meat that is already fully cooked can have a persistent pink coloring . This is usually more common in leaner meat . Some lean ground beef may remain pink at temperatures well above the 160 ° F final cooking temperature recommended for consumers . So it is really recommended that you get a meat thermometer to test the doneness of your burgers in the future . With all that said , unless you have really thick giant burger patties ( 10oz + ) , cooking the burger at 300F for 15-20 minutes should definitely be enough time to insure that the burgers are fully cooked through . Reference : <URL>
Did you let the meat cool completely before attempting to slice it ? Even meat that is completely-fall-apart tender straight out of the ( crock ) pot will firm up quite a bit when cooled .
Hello @Huangism and welcome to Seasoned Advice . You may consider domestic wagyu . To get the best , it will still be pricey , but not nearly as much as Kobe . Please see this excerpt from <URL> . You Get What You Pay For All Wagyu beef is not created equal . In Japan , Kobe beef sells at more than $ 300 per pound . But now Wagyu is starting to be seen in grocery stores and casual-dining restaurants for $ 30 per pound . This mass-marketed variety of Wagyu will have a marbling score at the low end of the 12-point scale . American Wagyu Beef from Lobel 's of New York will score 9 points or higher . More expensive than our USDA Prime , our American Wagyu costs a bit more than $ 100 per pound ( depending on the cut ) . In terms of quality , taste , and texture , Wagyu and Kobe beef are indistinguishable . If what you 're looking for is best quality Wagyu , you should expect to pay $ 100 or more per pound . The linked page has a lot more information and more links to additional info . Although this place is in the US , I linked it because of the information available . Performing anther search , I found that wagyu beef is now available in Canada at Loblaws in Toronto and also at Costco ( various provinces ) .
Generally speaking when speaking of " stew beef " , the meat will break down more the longer you cook it . I often make shredded beef for tacos out of that cut by simmmering it for a few hours or more . At 1 hour , I 'd say it was undercooked . For example : <URL> In there he recommends using stewing beef , browning it first and then " ... stew until the meat is tender and can be cut with a spoon . This will take at least an hour and a half . "
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
My foolproof method is as follows : Weigh out the desired amount of rice - I use 2-3oz per person - and put it in a saucepan . Wash the rice well by filling the pan with cold water , tipping it out , and repeating about 10 times . The more you wash the less the rice sticks together . Put enough water in the pan to cover the rice by about 5-8mm . Leave to soak for 25 minutes until the rice grains have turned opaque white . Put the saucepan over a high heat , uncovered , and bring to a boil . Boil until the water has evaporated and the surface of the rice is dotted with small holes . Turn off the heat . Cover tightly : if the lid is n't a tight fit , place a piece of foil on the pan , then put the lid on . Steam for at least 15 minutes . The beauty of this method is that it does n't matter how long you steam the rice for once it 's past the 15 minute minimum - in fact , the more it steams the better it is , especially if you have added spices or flavourings to the water .
If you are only using it three times a month then this 25lbs bag may last a very long time indeed . The problem is that even white rice can eventually develop off flavors when exposed to light and air . Additionally - even if pests do n't have access to the rice , it is not unlikely that the rice has some eggs on it that can hatch and spoil the whole bag . The solutions to these problems all make it difficult to use the rice in the short term . For long-term food storage dry foods are typically sealed in either # 10 cans or mylar bags . An oxygen absorbing packet is also included . This will prevent spoilage and pest growth . Mylar bags are less expensive and you can open one bag at a time for short term use . Alternatively - if you can freeze the rice to ensure there are no pests then the rice can be stored , sealed , in a cool , dry place as others have described . Given how cheap rice is - it might be acceptable to you to just take your chances and replace it if it spoils after some months .
In your example , it means 500g pumpkin before preparing . In general , you might see this two ways : 500g pumpkin . Dice the pumpkin . 500g diced pumpkin . The first option refers to the weight before prepping while the second refers to the weight after prepping . In general , the second one is far more exact for the actual recipe while the first one is more exact for shopping . I assume ease of shopping plus presumption of yield is why the first one is so often used , although in high end cook books ( Grant Achatz , Thomas Kellar , etc ) the weights are often given post prep for precision . You will see the same thing for volume measurements ( i.e. <URL> ) .
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
end question
start question
Is it safe to reheat old water in an electric kettle ?
Maybe I 'm wrong , but there is no safety risk at all when boiling old water . There is however something like taste . The reason the old water is discarded is because , after boiling , it lacks oxygen and will taste stale . This is also the reason why coffee is made with 95ºC hot water , or why Moroccan tea is poured from above ( to oxygenate ) ... So , as long as you boil it before drinking it should be safe .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
There are two problems here : Not enough heat reaching the wok/food due to limited contact surface . Part of the heating element not being in contact with a cooling metal ( pan/wok ) and the heat reflected back at it ( not escaping ) . This can result in a large temperature difference between the parts of the element that are in contact with the wok and parts that are not as well as over heating the element . You may still be able to use your wok on portable single burner gas stoves . Otherwise I 'd recommend heeding their advice and not using it on an electric stove . It wo n't make good food with little contact point anyway .
Since you are asking about canning then what you are describing is not a canning process which will give you a result you can store long term at room temperature . Long-term storage of soup would require pressure canning to raise the internal temperature high enough to kill any foodborne illnesses . If you plan to freeze the soup then mason jars are n't ideal , they 'll work but they are bulky and take up a lot of room . In any case you do n't get any real benefit from putting the lid on when hot if you are going to freeze them , you 're better off letting it cool so you do n't end up overwhelming your freezer 's cooling capacity .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
They are not safe . An apple used in this manner is an aromatic , not to be eaten . I often use a combination of apple , cinnamon , rosemary and onion inside my bird . This stuff does not reach the necessary temperature to kill the little beasties that will hurt you . If it does , then you 'll have one dry bird .
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
Maybe I 'm wrong , but there is no safety risk at all when boiling old water . There is however something like taste . The reason the old water is discarded is because , after boiling , it lacks oxygen and will taste stale . This is also the reason why coffee is made with 95ºC hot water , or why Moroccan tea is poured from above ( to oxygenate ) ... So , as long as you boil it before drinking it should be safe .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
In such a case , for any food item , ask yourself a question : In a 19th century household , would it have been kept in the cellar , or eaten immediately ? For bacon , it is common knowledge ( or at least I think everybody knows it ) that it was kept in a cellar for long time . So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly . You can eat it raw . ( In fact , I often do when I need a quick sandwich ) . It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth , so pre-cut it . The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat . There are two reasons not to eat raw meat : taste and food safety . Taste is individual , some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough ( think sashimi , carpaccio , steak tartare ) . Food safety is not a problem with bacon . The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke . Both of these kill bacteria , create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization ( dry , salty ) , and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat . If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex - " cellar foods " at all , there is still a reason . First , most of us do n't have a convenient cellar at 12 ° - 15 ° C , and not only is the bacon 's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures , it also does n't taste too good . It is just greasy . Second , you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket ; even if the curing process does n't include brining , bacon is often aged much less than in old times , and then packed in vacuum , so it does n't get really dry on the outside . So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer . Inside the freezer , it keeps much longer than raw meat , and is certainly OK for consumption without frying . I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
It is perfectly safe to eat ( when produced , transported , and so on under sanitary conditions , just like any other edible meat ) . In some cultures it is considered a delicacy ; in others , it is not considered appropriate to eat , but those issues of cultural norms , not of safety . The news is because it is a violation of trust ( truth in labeling ) in a cultural background where horses are not normally eaten . Personally , I might wonder what other shortcuts the purveyor had taken if they are lying about content ...
For baking cakes and breads it is important to control the humidity in the oven . In early stages of baking one typically needs the humidity to remain in the baking chamber , which is hard to do with a gas oven . Two of the bakeries near my house use electric ovens with brick lined baking chambers ; the other uses gas . Expansion Gas and electric ovens can be built to bake the same way if cost is not an issue . Most home gas ovens will circulate the combustion products ( mainly water vapor and carbon dioxide ) in the cooking chamber . As the flames burn , combustion products need to be vented out of the baking chamber . Electric ovens also need vents in the baking chamber to help maintain the pressure as the air inside expands . Steam is essential in the initial stages of baking for good crust formation in breads and crack-free cake surfaces . The oven cavity can hold much more steam than released from the gas combustion and it is my inference that the steam content of an electric oven will be higher ( I can not find published steam measurements inside ovens ) . After the dough expansion , the vapor coming off of the dough or batter needs to removed quickly for browning and for the inside to cook well . The constant flow in a gas oven makes it better at that . In an electric oven a peep or two during the last baking stages will handle excess moisture . Two bakeries near my house use electric ovens , the other , which makes excellent French baguettes , uses a gas oven . The baker there has had both electric and gas ovens and he prefers the caramelization of the gas oven . But note that he can handle the moisture problem with the steam injector of his professional gas oven . He also noted that using gas ovens require skill as they have temperature and moisture quirks . Recipes may be adapted to either gas or electric ovens . In the US the majority of recipes are designed for the electric oven ( they 're more popular ) .
There is one very different issue to be kept in mind - water in a microwave can overheat and " explode " once it is disturbed . Another poster had exactly this problem a short while ago : <URL> So follow the usual precautions , e.g. putting a wooden toothpick or a small , very clean stone ( chemists have them in their labs ) in your vessel . In a pinch , a spoon will do , but not all microwaves handle metal objects well . If you are worried that heating your water in a microwave might not be sufficient to kill all " nasties " , remember that killing bacteria is a function of time and temperature , so you might feel safer if you not only bring your water to a boil , but continue boiling it for another minute or so . I would assume that this is mostly for your psychological benefit , but it certainly wo n't hurt . The temperature reached is identical for different heating devices as physics dictates the boiling point of water and it ca n't exceed that as long as it 's liquid .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
end question
start question
What are Good Resources for Baker 's Percentage Ranges ?
You are confusing terms here . Baker 's percentages are used for bread and bread only . In pastry baking , ratio is even more important as in bread , but traditionally , nobody calles it " baker 's percentages " . The book you want is Ruhlman 's <URL> . It gives exactly the information you want for pastry and some other things ( noodles , mayonnaise ) . About the only common ratio he does n't explain is ice cream . It also has some recipes , but the main focus is on the exact proportions of flour , sugar , fat and liquid you need for each type of baked good .
If you live in Poland , you should easily find the " normal " white ones in your supermarket . They should be good for baked beans , although the British version uses white beans that are a bit smaller . For more American style beans , you could also use the pinkish-brown or spotted type . There are so many types of beans , that I ca n't give a specific " name " . Stick with the smaller ones , as they have less starchy parts and usually keep their shape better .
The difference between red wines and white wines are that red wines are fermented with some of the skins , while white wines are not . Tannins come from the skins , and make people 's mouth feel dry , hence more tannins mean a wine is called dry . So you can not have a low tannin dry wine , as dry means tannic by definition . Much of a wine 's characteristics come from the properties of the earth , water , and climate that the grapes are grown in ( the french call the sum of these characteristics terroir ) , so you can get a dry wine from most grapes depending these factors . However , some grapes produce less tannic skins , and therefore overall produce less tannic , ie fruitier wines . Common fruitier red varieties are pinot noir , garancha ( granache ) , primitivo ( Zinfandel ) , and pinotage . All these varieties should be available in US supermarkets . If you can find an Oregon pinot noir then that would be my choice , they are very good value and great tasting wines . California zinfandel used to be considered cheap plonk ( because it was ) , but lately has had a resurgence and there are some fantastic wines from this grape .
There are a few seeds which are good to eat . These generally get sold in the supermarket ( pumpkin seeds , apricot kernels ) . If you buy the fruit containing them , you can keep the seeds . If you want to store them , you should dry them first . Spread the cleaned seeds in a single layer on paper and put it in a warm dry place ( not in direct sunlight ) , and wait a few days . You should deshell them right before consuming , that way they keep longer . If you want to eat them right away , do n't dry them . They taste better when fresh . Some should be roasted in the shell before eaten ( pumpkin seeds , sunflower seeds ) . There is little sense in eating seeds not commonly sold in supermarkets , like melon seeds or apple pips . They do n't have any nutritional value for humans , or taste bad ( e.g. very bitter ) , or both . It is even dangerous to experiment too much . For example , peach kernels contain poisonous cyanide compounds . So stick to what is commonly eaten , there is a reason the other seeds are n't used .
Lay them out on a paper towel overnight so that the skins dry completely . This gives the benefit of keeping the frozen blueberries from sticking together without needing lots of freezer space to do a quick freeze individually on a sheet pan . Then bag in a freezer bag and freeze . Note that whenever you freeze fruit , the liquid will burst the cell walls as it thaws , causing the resulting berry to be mushier . In my experience , frozen blueberries are n't good for eating alone . To bake with blueberries , thaw them by placing them in a mesh sieve or collander and running water over them until the water is clear off the bottom ( no pigmentation from the skins , which may color your baked goods ) and the berries are thawed . Dry the skins before using in baking . Using these techniques I have not once had any of the 30 pounds of blueberries I froze this summer burst in the freezer and have successfully made many blueberry baked goods from the results .
Generally , slow-cooking means any food preparation method which relies on using low-heat for a long amount of time . Barbecues , smokers , luau pits , and low-heat ovens could all qualify . The benefit of slow-cooking , generally , is that food becomes incredibly tender , as all of its connective tissues break down . Also , flavor can infuse over time and provide deeper results than with virtually any other method . Lastly , long-cooking times create a celebratory atmosphere where food is the focal point of a social gathering . Specifically , slow-cooking refers to the ' slow-cooker ' a counter-top set-up which has a large , electronically heated ceramic bowl and a glass lid . It usually has only a few settings , such as ' low ' , ' medium ' , and ' high ' . The benefit of slow-cooking in a slow-cooker is mainly convenience . These units are safe enough to turn on before work and return to before dinner , with fully-cooked , piping hot food ready to go . The slow-cooker is geared towards ' one-pot ' recipes , which means they require minimal food preparation . You simply cut up the ingredients in fairly large chunks , add seasoning , and liquid , and that 's it . They are a favorite of working parents , but increasingly , also a device for more advanced experimentation .
You will want side dishes that will not overcome the taste of the lobster . Steamed or grilled asparagus with just the barest drizzle of olive oil and coarse salt immediately come to my mind . Add a nice risotto ( mushroom ? ) then send me an invitation .
There is no substitute for salt . Sorry . It has effects on the tastebuds and the body that can not be replicated . However ! They can be approached to a degree that most people will find interchangeable . Acids can mimic the flavour-enhancing qualities of salt in a big way . The more acid you have in a dish , the less salt you will need . Beware of going too far , of course , as too much acid is just unpleasant and will need salt to counterbalance . Heat -- as in capsaicin , chili peppers -- can produce much the same effect . Echoing papin 's information above ; NA and K ( sodium and potassium ) exist in balance in the body . Too far in one direction and you have a heart attack ( too much K ) , too much in the other and ( if memory serves ; I could be wrong ) you essentially drown ( or is it edema ? I ca n't remember ) . If avoiding sodium is related to a health concern , please speak to your primary healthcare provider before adjusting your diet in this way .
' You should n't eat mussels that do n't open ' is an unfounded myth . It was first mentioned in a book by the British food writer Jane Grigson in the 1970s and grew through repetition to the point that 90 % of cook books mentioned it in the 1990s . The fact is , mussels that do n't open after cooking are more likely to be safe than those that do . You should , however , be careful to remove any mussels that have opened before cooking , as they 'll be dead and likely to make you ill .
It 's not a " cheat sheet " , and is rather too big to stick to your fridge , but I highly recommend the book <URL> , which is an encyclopedia of exactly these associations . What ingredients does any particular ingredient go with ? How do you cook it ? Absolutely terrific book !
In most contexts , I would assume that simply means the leaves from the herb parsley . Depending on where your recipe originates -- especially central Europe , or some Asian cultures -- parsley root may also be used , so the recipe might be trying to make that clear . I suspect , however , it really is the recipe author 's idiosyncratic style . Now , as to chopping them , that would depend on how it is used and what the rest of the recipe says .
Admittedly I have only stored my starter in a glass jar , but I would n't want anything else . You should look for a size that is neither too large , nor too small . It should comfortably hold your sourdough starter when you are simply feeding it - I usually store 200g of starter , at 100 % hydration ( 100g flour , 100g water ) or thereabouts . However , when actually making sourdough starter you make more - perhaps 400g or so , depending on how much bread you are making , plus you want to have something left to restart your bread . A typical recipe might call for 20 % starter , so 200g for a kilo loaf . The other solution is to of course have two separate jars , and only use both when doubling for bread . When I say it must be able to hold that much , I mean that it will have to hold it fully risen , which means around 2x to 2.5 x of the original size . In addition , narrow and high is better than low and wide , since it makes it easier to tell how much it rises . Also , you will want a wide opening , so that you can easily clean it . As for covering it , I just use a sheet of plastic . Just take care not to get it gooey . It will hold in the moisture so the sourdough does n't dry out , but wo n't trap the carbon dioxide . Good luck
You should be able to cook on your grill using various types of wood such as hickory , mesquite , cherry , maple , apple , etc. . Per <URL> , birch can be used also . Birch - A softer wood , Birch is best used when grilling or smoking cuts of pork and poultry , providing a flavor similar to some varieties of maple . Birch is a softer wood and can also be syrupy . Also hard woods cook longer than soft woods . Be sure to use large chunks rather than chips or small pieces . Just keep these things in mind when cooking with birch .
You can use any neutral flavored oil , such as vegetable or canola oil . You can also use butter , but you may have to adjust for the amount of water present in the butter ( about 20 % ) , unless you 're using clarified butter which is a 1:1 substitution .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
Flax is a very problematic fabric to wash , and even more problematic to dry . You risk ending up with stiff , wrinkled , and/or shrunk fabric . I would never machine wash the flax couche . Actually , I would n't wash it after regular use , when it does n't come into contact with anything but flour and lean dough . But if it accidentally got dirtied with something else , you are obviously better off washing it than throwing it away . In this case , I would hand-wash it in room-temperature water , neven in a washing machine ( not even the wool cycle ) . Use wool detergent ( no fabric softener ) , and do n't crumple the fabric while washing . Instead , try to let it soak a bit ( maybe 15-20 min ) and then gently " shake off " the dirt under water . You can add a bit of food grade citric acid for the last rinse , because acid acts somewhat similar to fabric softener . When it is washed , do n't wring it . Shake off as much water as you can , then lay it between two frotee towels . It should be spread out , not wrinkled or folded . Keep it at room temperature , not near sun , wind or a heater . Change the towels after 6 to 8 hours ( the first time you may have to change them sooner ) . Repeat until it is only moist , not wet . Then spread it somewhere to dry without towels , again away from sun , wind , or excessive heat . Turn it every few hours . It will probably be stiffer than when you started with it , but I think it will be still usable .
If you pinch off the basil flowers as they start to grow , the plant will produce more leaves . ( Yes , this is a horticultural answer , but it will help you make more yummy dishes with the leaves . )
At a bare minimum , you 'll want at least one " flavoured " and one " unflavoured " oil . Olive oil is definitely the most common choice for a flavoured oil , and sunflower/peanut/canola oil all have pretty neutral flavours ( not to mention similar smoke points ) . Note that for good flavour you 'll want extra virgin olive oil , which also makes it unsuitable for frying/saut éing at high temperatures . So I would say that you already have the minimum requirement . That said , even the " unflavoured " oils have subtly different flavour characteristics due to their different fat contents , and you 'll want to take this into consideration if you like to cook in ethnic cuisines . A short list ( and keep in mind that this is partially subjective ) : Peanut oil : Asian cuisine , Mexican cuisine ( high-temperature frying ) Sesame oil : Asian cuisine ( stir-fry or deep-fry [ refined only ] ) Olive oil : Italian cuisine , French cuisine ( low-temp ) Sunflower or Canola oil : American cuisine , esp . deep-frying Grape seed oil : Decent substitute for any of the other oils Walnut/almond oil : Great for fried desserts ( watch the smoke point though ) .
Amchur does n't give much of a flavor other than sour , at least , not in the amounts I use of it . It does have a bit of a distinctive aroma , but really , to me , it is just a fairly neutral sour flavor . The easiest , most neutral substitute would be citric acid powder . Unfortunately , they do n't usually give concentration/strengths on the packaging , but comparing Ball Citric Acid for Canning to the powdered amchur from the Indian store , it 's pretty close . I think the citric acid tastes a tiny bit lemony , but not enough to make a difference . Also , the amchur powder I buy is generally quite finely ground , and the citric acid is generally in crystals . If you are doing something like a spice blend ( e.g. , chat masala powder ) you would probably want to grind the crystals up to match the texture of the rest of the spices . Depending on what you 're making , there are quite a few substitutions , but most of them would be more obscure than ( or at least as obscure as ) the amchur , and all would be less neutral . Also , amchur is dry , so adding something liquid might affect your recipe . ( Easy to adjust if you are adding to something liquid , of course . ) In many Indian dishes , most of the Indians I know simply do use lemon juice when they want to make something sour , especially for northern dishes . This really is quite common , and nearly every Indian cook I know in the US has a large bottle of lemon juice in the fridge for every day use . If you 're making something South Indian , tamarind pulp or paste is often the souring agent of choice , but it is distinctly not neutral . It has a distinctive flavor and will also darken things ( in a somewhat yellow-orange-brown range ) . Some regions also use dried kokum fruit in the same way ( classic Maharashtrian aamti , for example ) , but I would say it is even more distinctive than tamarind , and it also will darken it ( with a dark grey-green-brown range of color ) . For both kokum and tamarind , you soak the pulp in water and add the soaking water without the pulp to the dish . You can also usually find tamarind concentrate ( a tarry paste ) but I 've never seen anything like that for kokum . One more option I just thought of is using some other unripe or sour fruit . Amchur is made by powdering dried green mangoes . You can actually sometimes find dried green mangoes at places like Trader Joe 's and if it is unsweetened , a small piece of that can certainly be used , but it seems that any fruit that is firm and sour should work , such as an unripe plum or a very tart apple . In that case , I would suggest either cooking with a small piece or two of the fruit in the sauce ( if there is one ) and removing it later or you could try to crush it and press some juice out . The problem here would be in figuring out the correct amount to add , but I think you could start from the dried-to-fresh conversion rates for herbs .
end question
start question
At what point is eating left-overs or perishables not just daring but dumb ?
When in doubt , throw it out . It 's cheaper than a hospital visit . If you are wanting to save money , be proactive and find out the best way to store each food , and how long it can be stored . Some things lose taste and texture as they age ( even in the proper environment ) , while some things begin to grow dangerous kinds of bacteria or molds . For example , hard dry bread gets turned into french toast . Moldy bread gets thrown away .
A quote from the below link ; " Do not thaw frozen seafood at room temperature . Thaw in the refrigerator or defrost in the microwave oven . If thawing in the refrigerator , allow one to two hours per pound of seafood " . <URL> &amp; Another quote from the link below ; " ... If food is allowed to remain at room temperature for two hours or longer , bacteria can multiply and cause food poisoning . - Even a tiny amount of contaminated food can cause severe illness . If you have any doubt about the safety of the food , throw it out ! " <URL>
The canning process makes food safe : existing bacteria and fungi are killed , the intrusion of new pathogens is prevented by sealing the container . ( More e.g. <URL> . ) As soon as you open the can or jar , its contents are exposed to the surrounding air which will contain bacteria and fungal spores . Some of those will happily grow feeding on the food they land on . Refrigerating slows down their metabolism , meaning they ca n't reach dangerous numbers within the recommended storage time after opening . For more info on storing food , see our canonical posts <URL> and on how long quickly-spoiling food can be <URL> .
What is the difference between just adding brandy to burning it with regard to taste ? Time and theatric impact ( flambe is often done table side in a restaurant ) are the big difference . Flambe : very quick , almost instant reduction of alcohol texture/composition changes to dish are limited due to short process visually dramatic subtle changes in flavor Adding alcohol , then further cooking : longer cooking time to reduce alcohol longer cooking will have a different effect on texture/composition there will be changes in flavor , but in a different way from flambe With most recipes , it comes down to time . If a long simmer to remove alcohol is undesired , you flambe . Example : Bananas Foster , if you simmered that for a long time , you 'll get a hot bitter banana mush . Flambe is the better choice . Without seeing your entire recipe : if your peppers are cooked a long time , you could simply add the alcohol and let the cooking reduce it . But if the recipe is a quick saute or similar , if you do n't flambe , you may not get the flavor change the author intended . And , you may end up serving alcohol .
I 've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking , and the outside for freezing . In other words , do you want to reflect the heat into the food , or away from the food ? However , common sense ( which fails very often ) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved , any benefit is marginal , if it exists at all . The only time it might matter , is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun . Then it might make a difference . EDIT : From The Straight Dope : The truth is that the shiny side is not treated with a dangerous chemical . Mineral oil is used as a lubricant during the rolling process , some trace of which may remain on the finished foil -- but it 's not dangerous . The shiny side is shiny because of the way foil is made . During the last pass through the rolling mill , a double thickness of foil is run between the rollers . The side of each sheet that comes in contact with the polished steel rollers comes out shiny . The other side has a matte finish . <URL> ALSO The official word from the Reynolds aluminum people is as follows : " It makes little difference which side of the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you use -- both sides do the same fine job of cooking , freezing , and storing food . There is a slight difference in the reflectivity of the two sides , but it is so slight that laboratory instruments are required to measure it . "
What kind of meat is it , maybe pork ? There are many kinds of pathogens in meat . One type are bacteria . They do n't die from cold temperatures ( not even freezing ) , but die from high heat . Unfortunately , heating the meat throughout so it 's hot enough to kill all bacteria will turn it into a shoesole . So , meat is cooked to slightly lower temperatures which are capable of killing most , but not all bacteria . And the surface of the meat comes into contact with the pan , so it gets much hotter than the inside . Because the surface is where the bacteria are ( they came onto the meat after it was butchered ) , they die in the hot pan . But there are other pathogens beside bacteria . One class are parasites . They also die from high heat . But they do n't sit on the surface of the meat , they were living inside the tissue of the animal before it was slaughtered . So , if you bring a contaminated steak to 55 Celsius internal temperature , but accidentally stick your thermometer in a too thin part of the meat - or do n't use a thermometer and hope that you can judge meat doneness by feel - it can happen that a parasite snuggled in the thickest part survives . And some domestic animal parasites can also use the human as a host , causing all kinds of ugly health problems . A prime examples would be trichinosis , a disease caused by a pig parasite . Parasites are rather rare in industrial food production , because there are ways to heal them in the living animal . You almost never get into contact with them , while each piece of meat you buy is teeming with disease-causing bacteria . So parasites are not in the spotlight of food safety , the typical rules are created to protect against bacteria . Given the lack of trichinosis epidemics lately , it seems to work . But if there is a high chance that you get contaminated meat , you can consider freezing the meat . Unlike bacteria , parasites die when frozen solid , and stop being a danger to you . I have n't heard of such a wave of advice in the media , it could be that there was a single high-profile case of parasite illness in your country , or that there has been a slowly growing epidemic . Or also that there always has been some danger due to the way animals are typically held ( your description of eating right away reminds me of a family slaughtering pigs they raised themselves , in which case there is no vet inspecting the meat ) , but that consumer rights groups have started a media campaign to bring the situation into public attention . Beside pork , there is high parasite risk in wild hunted game , as well as many kinds of sea food . Sheep can also carry some , but they are more likely to be in the organ meat , not the muscle ( e.g. liver flukes ) . AFAIK , beef and chicken are not typical hosts to dangerous parasites . Update : As Mischa Arefiev points out , there is a type of tapeworm which lives in beef . Freezing is effective against it too .
In our culture we eat olive pits ( especially Kalamata ) for generations and no one has ever had a problem with eating them in small quantities ( 3-4 max ) . They seem to be digestible ( never noticed any of them coming out ! :)
From <URL> : When you clean the fish , remove the skin and any dark-colored flesh . This part of the fish is especially strong tasting and somewhat oily . Check out these fish recipes to learn to cook bluefish . Also see <URL> for advices on improving the flavor ( e.g. soak it in milk ) .
If you 're worried about getting sick , the only risky ingredient is raw eggs . I personally detest raw cookie dough ( it 's a texture thing ) , but our family routinely uses powdered eggs in our cookie dough so that my spouse and kids can eat the raw dough without any worry ( they seem to prefer the dough to the baked cookies ) . The cookies turn out exactly the same , we just end up losing about half the dough in the process to those crazy people who prefer eating the dough ...
You can put things in the cavity to help flavor the chicken as well . A bundle of fresh herbs , garlic , an onion , fresh fruit , etc. . Stuffing from a cavity is divine though , do n't knock it until you 've tried it !
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
I 'm with @Ward -- I like being able to scour my pans for those times when even <URL> does n't work . ( although , I 've found that if you ever forget about the stock that you 're trying to reduce ... burning chicken bones is a nasty smell and will stain even stainless steel ) . I do have some non-stick , and even a non-stick flat-bottomed wok ( from circulon , but then , I 'm also using electric , so it 's possible I do n't get enough heat to ruin it ; I also never pre-heat it without oil in it , as you should never heat a dry nonstick vessel ) . I 'd say to look at replacing your set bit by bit -- which items do you cook that really need non-stick , and what pan do you cook it in ? Maybe replace your more beat-up items with something not non-stick , try cooking with it , and see how well you like cooking with them -- it 's possible that you wo n't like it , and it 'd be better to be out the cost of only a piece or two than a whole set . You could even try out a few different materials -- cast iron , stainless , anodized aluminum , etc. . It also might take a little time to get used to cooking with out the non-stick . One mistake I 've seen people make is not giving their pans enough time to pre-heat . ( I think it was the Frugal Gourmet who 'd say " Hot pan , cold food , food wo n't stick " ... which is n't entirely true , but you 'll have much less problems with a hot pan ) .
If your question is specific about acid : Nothing . The conventional way acids work is by dissolving them in water . I even have some vague memories that it 's not technically correct to call a substance an " acid " before it has been dissolved in water - for example , pure HCl ( a gas ) is not an acid , but once it is dissolved in water , it becomes hydrochlorid acid . pH , the well-known measure for acidity , is defined as the logarithm of the number of protons swimming around in the aqueous solution - and before you dissolve the acidic substance , the protons stay firmly attached to their host molecule . I have never heard of an acid working without water being present . I am not a chemist , and maybe there is an way to get acid to work using some other polar solvent instead of water . So I do n't want to tell you that it 's absolutely impossible to have an acid without water ( although this could be the case , I just do n't know ) . But : The acid itself is by definition water-soluble . You ca n't bring acid and water two together and not get a new , weaker , acid-water solution . I ca n't think of any edible polar solvent besides water . Ethanol could qualify , but most people do n't consider 96.4 % ethanol to be " edible " . If it does n't matter to you what the other liquid is ( not an acid ) , you can easily use anything non-polar . In food , any fat will do . You could start by floating solid-fat spheres in water and then pouring them into oil . The problem here is that they will take quite a long time to dissolve ( although this can be circumvented by using warm oil ) . The other way round will work better . Take something which dissolves in water quickly , and make the hollow sphere out of it . Float it in oil . Then you 'll pour it into the water to release the fragrance . Crystals are best for dissolving rapidly in water . I think that either salt or sugar will work well for your spheres . Of course , you are left with two problems : 1 ) how to manufacture the hollow spheres , and 2 ) what fragrance to use which will not dissolve the spheres themselves . For 2 ) , you are probably looking at essential oils ( warning , use foodsafe ones , not all are ! ) . For 1 ) , you probably need some precision candy-making techniques . Update : letting food react with acid . The answer above assumed that you are really looking for stuff which will dissolve in acid . The commenters pointed out that this is not necessary , as you can let the food react with the acid instead . It 's an interesting idea , but it wo n't be easy to get done . From the major food groups , you can exclude all proteins . We are made of protein , and any acid strong enough to quickly corrode spheres of gelatin or similar will ulcerate our mouths right away . You can also exclude the sugars . They are water-soluble . The polysaccharides are a better bet . Especially the hemicelluloses should be good candidates , as they are insoluble in water , and the result of the hydrolisis is edible ( sugars and some polisaccharides ) . But they typically need very strong acids for the reaction . You might try to use a concentrated edible acid for the reaction , then dilute the result for consumption , but you 'll have to pay lots of attention to proper ratio . Also , I do n't know how you 'll manage to physically shape one of the insoluble polysaccharides into a water-tight capsule at home . The fats are also bad candidates . They are largely unimpressed by acids , in fact their most interesting reactions are with bases ( saponification , etc. ) The short unsaturated ones will probably react with an acid , but you 'll need a fairly strong one , and the result wo n't really disappear . The probably easiest way to do this is with salts . Especially the sodium salts tend to be edible and to react readily with acids . Plain old calcium carbonate sounds like a promising material , and with a bit of heating you can get it to react very quickly with acid solutions dilute enough to drink afterwards . Again , you have the problem of somehow making spheres out of it .
Sure . <URL> , and I think there was an episode of Good Eats that described the process pretty well , too . I 'm not sure what you can get at the butcher in India , but you 'll want to find the belly of the pig . What you do is rub the meat with a cure , which is a mix of salt , sugar , seasoning , and " pink salt " ( a curing salt that is part regular salt and part sodium nitrite ) . Leave it in your fridge in a ziploc bag for a week or covered on a tray , flipping it over daily so that it cures evenly , then rinse it off . At that point you can roast it in a low oven , smoke it , or hang it to dry .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
The difference between a santuko and European chef 's knife is mostly a matter of personal taste and style . However , if you live in North America , Europe , or anywhere else with a European cooking tradition , most of the resources and videos that you see to help you develop knife skills will assume you have a chef 's knife . For this reason , I suggest you start with a good basic chef 's knife . Secondly , you will want a paring knife . With these two knives , you can do 95 % of kitchen tasks very well . As you develop your skills , you can try santukos and other style blades and determine if the work for you .
You will need the following : A pot that 's about 12 " in diameter and 4 inches deep Put the broth in the pot , you can buy broth packages usually at Chinese/Asian supermarket . You just need to mix it with water and boil . Food you want to cook in the pot . Sliced beef is my favourite , but mussels , beef balls , fish balls , shrimps , veggies , etc. . You will need chopsticks , hot pot scoop that looks like the following , so you can scoop the cooked food to your own plate : <URL> To add flavour , usually you dip the cooked food in soya sauce , but a mixture of raw egg , soya sauce and satay sauce is used as the deep . You can even add chopped chili , green onions and chili oil to it . Just make the broth . Cook the food you like as you eat . That 's it !
Probably the jelly is something like the brand Oetker which comes clear or fruit-flavoured . It is indeed poured warm ; cheesecake will survive if it 's a cm or less layer . Alternatively , boil up some apricot jam ( or strawberry ) , take off heat a few minutes and sieve through a tea strainer over cheesecake . Keep stirring the pot if you are slow .
This information should be indicated on the label : sweet , sweet &amp; sour , spicy , smoked ... Generic paprika is sweet and will probably not have much flavor ( that is why paprika can be used in paella together with saffron - see <URL> )
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
end question
start question
Does ketchup belong in the fridge , or the cupboard ?
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
You <URL> . Once it 's opened it 's good for a month or so with no appreciable change . After that the flavour and colour starts to degrade , but it 's still safe to eat . Worcestershire sauce is fermented for more than a year before it 's bottled , so it will change at a much slower rate than an acidic , but unfermented sauce like ketchup . Still , it 's only good for a few years after it 's opened .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
This is n't at all exclusive to eggs , searing off a really cold ( fresh , not frozen ) steak will get you a tough steak . Unless the recipe depends on the behavior of a protein as refrigerated , proteins are better to work with at room temperature . Think of the egg yolk and white sort of like ice cream ; the warmer it becomes , the more distinctly the viscosity changes . Beating cold egg whites to stiff peaks is one heck of a workout :) Cold yolks are also very likely to result in ' broken ' emulsions . In your specific case , cold eggs simply wo n't incorporate into the mix in a manner that 's consistent with what the recipe previously produced . The difference would depend on the recipe , but in most cases , not subtle . Things would be denser than ideal , or just simply not hold together very well . It really depends on what you 're doing .
Also does it modify or make the food more nutritious with solar cooker . Not more than any other kind of similar cooking by radiant heat , like baking . There is simply no mechanism by which that could happen . Let 's examine some claims I found from Google : from <URL> Solar cooking does n't use smoke that can contain carcinogens or microwaves that expose your food to potentially dangerous radio waves . An electric stove produces no smoke ( if you do n't burn the food ) , and natural gas produces very little smoke . Were there smoke emitted by the stove , the area around it would be covered in soot , and the flame would be yellow from the carbon ( the main component of soot and smoke ) heated to incandescence in the flame . Further , the biggest cancer risk from smoked foods is not the smoke , but the <URL> frequently used to cure them . If microwaves emit dangerous radio waves , the sun emits far more . That 's why it 's so bright , and so hot . I suppose you could be harmed by the microwave 's radio waves if you manage to turn it on without shutting the door . Then again , you can cook your hand in a solar cooker , too . Or a stove . Come to think of it , cooking involves potentially dangerous heat . Huh . Also : <URL> ( summary : no more than any other cooking ) Plus , when you cook in a solar appliance , the nutrients stay in the food and do n't leach out . That 's because you do n't use water in solar cooking . And , the temperatures in a solar oven are moderate -- around 325 F -- so nutrients are n't destroyed during cooking at a high temperature like on a grill or over an open flame . This is also true of many other methods of preparing foods : baking , grilling , microwaving , frying and , do n't involve water . 325 F is not an unusual temperature for baking , and most other methods can be performed gently , if desired . To summarize : there may be benefits of solar cooking ( a big one : it requires no fuel ) , but nutrition is not one of them . There 's no way sunlight can add more nutrition to food that was n't there to begin . Any nutritional benefits are not as much from solar cooking specifically as they are from not cooking by some less nutritional method . For example , any cooking method that is not boiling will not have the possibility of dissolving some of the food 's nutrition .
It is not inherently unsafe , but it may not be something you want to do for other reasons . The main reasons not to store food in cast iron are : Foods , especially acidic foods , may continue to react with the iron , developing off flavors Moisture encourages cast iron to rust It is not good for maintenance of your pans seasoning , which is part of what makes cast iron pans so desirable for cooking Many cast iron skillets do n't have a lid , which may be desirable to protect the food from drying out , getting odors and off flavors from other items in the refrigerator , or contributing odors to the other items in the refrigerator . This one , of course , applies to any pan . Note : we have had extensive discussions elsewhere ( see for example , <URL> , and the many links within ) . Putting the food hot into your refrigerator may not be the best practice ( it is more ideal to cool it quickly , in a shallow dish in an ice water bath ) , but putting it into the refrigerator still somewhat hot is certainly better than simply leaving it out on the counter until it is cooler then putting it into the refrigerator . Per the <URL> ( thanks to <URL> for the link to the source material ) : Hot food can be placed directly in the refrigerator or it can be rapidly chilled in an ice or cold water bath before refrigerating . Cover foods to retain moisture and prevent them from picking up odors from other foods . A large pot of food like soup or stew should be divided into small portions and put in shallow containers before being refrigerated . A large cut of meat or whole poultry should be divided into smaller pieces or placed in shallow containers before refrigerating .
If the food had reached a temperature of 21 C for an unknown amount of time , you should definitely discard it . See : <URL> As a more general rule , there really is no way to provide a definitive answer ; it depends on your specific refrigerator , the cooling power it has , how much air was able to move through the gap , and how much mass was inside the refrigerator to provide a thermal buffer If you had a refrigerator thermometer and looked at what temperature the interior rose to , if it was below 40 F you are good . If you do n't have a thermometer , you do n't know exactly what happened inside . You must assess how much tolerance for risk you have .
I suppose the Belgian " curry ketchup " is similar to the German varieties and no , they are usually not only seasoned with curry powder , but also other spices . There is no standard seasoning mix for curry ketchup , but common additional spices are ginger , black pepper , paprika , cayenne or other chili powders . I also think that some brands contain onions . The brownisher colour of curry ketchup is mostly because of the turmeric in the curry powder , so just adding the powder to regular ketchup will get you a colour match even without the additional spices or ingredients .
Salty marinades work best , both for altering the flavor profile of the protein and for adding liquid to the cut . Since sous vide is a technique that works in a vacuum-sealed bag , liquid does n't evaporate from the cut during the cooking process . I would say do this : 1 . Brinerade the cut for a short period of time ( depends on the size of the cut ) 2 . Dry the meat really well . 3 . Sous vide the crap out of that tasty cut ! 4 . Re-dry the meat , if necessary ! 5 . Sear the cut ( browning adds flavor ) in a rippin ' hot pan to form a crust . 6 . Enjoy !
I can only answer from a perspective of the Indonesian kitchen , and my own personal experience , but in general the answer is : In the water , with the rice I quite often use saffron , turmeric , cloves , <URL> ( The English Wiki entry links to bay leaf , which , completely , utterly , is not the same thing ) , and lemongrass , and they all go in while cooking the rice . Possible exceptions would be green leafy herbs , ( coriander / cilantro for instance ) , which you put in the end . Not so much to flavor the rice , but more to " scent " the bowl of rice . [ Edit ] In answer to your edit : There is no preferred way . The preferred way depends on the herb , as observed by <URL> in his/her answer . Going by experience , and the herbs I use myself , the answer is in the water with the rice . Putting a bay leaf in after the fact , is not going to do much for a dish . Putting it in while cooking the dish is . This goes for a lot of herbs : Turmeric , ginger and laos ( galangal ? ) can flavor rice , but not if you put it in the end . On the other hand : Putting cilantro while cooking the rice will just destroy the cilantro , and leave nothing to show for it . I lack the knowledge of what is water-soluble , and what is fat-soluble , but as a general guideline I use my highly personal " is-this-going-to-survive-the-15-to-20-minute-cooking-process-or-not ? " guideline , and the even more personal " did-it-work ? " guideline . In addition , and perhaps also supporting <URL> 's answer , Indonesians are not shy of cooking their rice in <URL> ( again : English wiki does not do justice , creamed coconut is not quite the same ) , adding a mildy greasy layer to the grains , aiding in flavor absorption , although I have to say it 's not a common practice , but more often used for festive occasions .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Certainly yes . In fact , aged egg whites can whip better - sensitive applications like macarons will frequently prescribe holding the separated egg whites for a day or two before using .
Generally oven cooking gives a more even , surrounding heat rather than the direct and concentrated heat from below that a hob supplies .
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
After that long , the beans are almost certainly stale . While it 's true that <URL> , four to ten years is very long time to age coffee and the opinions on aged coffee seem to be mixed at best . I say toss 'em , although you could compost them or even use them for arts and crafts , I would n't recommend them for human consumption . It 's doubtful that anyone would be harmed , seeing as <URL> and that would keep any ' ick ' from developing , it probably would n't be a very enjoyable cup of coffee .
As to the science behind why this works , I can only guess . However , as to other things you can try for this trick , I managed to find some references from old cookbooks about using slices of potato for clarifying their deep-fryer oil . Other suggestions were a slice of bread or lemon peel . Weird -- but interesting . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When you have finished frying , clarify the oil by frying a piece of bread , a strip of lemon peel , or a slice of potato in it .
Salt in high concentrations can kill yeast yes . So can sugar , though salt is so much better at it . You see both are hygroscopic , meaning that they suck water out of stuff . This induces osmotic stress to the yeast cells leading eventually to cell breakdown ( aka death ) . On lower concentrations salt will throttle the yeast fermentation producing a richer and more uniform crumb . Adding the salt early or later in the process will have a big effect on your dough , but that wo n't be because of the way it messes up with the yeast . Salt is supposed to coagulate gluten proteins , in a sense it " stiffens " the dough . On various situations this should happen late in the process ( e.g. see the " Delayed salt method " used for sourdoughs ) . For pizza dough I 'd add the salt early .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
end question
start question
How to mix a spaghetti carbonara ?
In addition to the tips from Joe 's great grandmother , you might want to try and rinse the pasta thoroughly with some lukewarm water after cooking it al dente . That way you rinse off the remaining starch and you prevent the pasta from cooking any further . Rinsing results in firmer pasta that is silky smooth and does n't clump together or get mashed up . Your scoop or tongs will slither right through without damaging the pasta . :)
Cook the pancetta on a large pan , so that it fries in its own fat . It must turn red , but do n't cook it too much as you are going to cook it a bit more later on . Open two eggs . If you like the color of the carbonara intense , throw one white away , and keep one white and two yolks . Put them in a bowl , then add grated parmigiano and mix with a fork . The amount of parmesan should be at least the same volume of the eggs , maybe even more ( twice does not hurt ) . This will give you a rather firm but still flowing compound . Firm is better than too liquid . Cook the pasta . Spaghetti is the norm for carbonara , but also penne is a good choice . Get them " al dente " or some second later , as you prefer . Drain the pasta and put it in the pan you used to cook the pancetta ( where the pancetta still is ) . Pour the egg/cheese mix on top of the pasta and put the pan on gentle heat , while you continue moving and mixing . Detach any layer of cooked egg from the bottom of the pan while you mix . The perfect carbonara must not be liquid , and it must not be clumpy solid , so keep mixing or you will get a pasta omelette . Once you are done , turn off the heat , and take spaghetti up with a large fork , so to disentangle them while you transfer them on the dishes . move them in the dish with a small oscillating movement to disentangle a bit more . Continue like this for all the dishes you have to serve . At the end you will have the pancetta remaining in the pan , and you put it on top of each dish . Add more grated parmigiano and some ground black pepper and eat as soon and hot as possible ! Additional notes : try to stay a bit scarce on salt in the pasta water , and do not add salt to the egg . The fact is that the pancetta is already pretty salted , and you risk to obtain a very salted final result . Carbonara should be salty , but not too salty . I heard about modification with butter and cream , but I have never seen them used , at least in my family and circle of friends .
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
If you <URL> , you will find many , many recipes and descriptions . The basic idea is that you use a half-empty beer can as stand for the chicken , placing the chicken 's cavity on top of the can before roasting or grilling . The idea is that the aroma from the beer will transfer to the chicken , and the steam will help keep it moist . You can even buy commercial racks to do the same thing without the beer can . My personal opinion is that both of these ideas are bunk : Very few if any aromatic molecules will transfer to the chicken , and even if they do , they will not penetrate past the surface The steam will not keep the chicken moist , as the dryness of the meet is essentially a function only of the temperature to which you cook it , and very little else . If the chicken is cooked to too high a temperature , then the proteins will tighten up and express water making the chicken tough , rubbery , and dry tasting . The minimal amount of steam can not change this fact .
Wilds of Russia ? If you have dry ice , just adding pieces of it ( chopped small ) to your drink will work to some extent . Here 's a vid : <URL> Be aware that not all dry ice is food grade . If no dry ice , you can get by with sodium bicarbonate ( baking soda ) and vinegar ( acetic acid ) , or some other acid . Just mix the two chemicals , and bubble the resulting gas through your drink . Here 's an Instructable , w video : <URL> . It 'd be easy to improve on the kid 's method , for example by adding a <URL> , but the general principles are sound . Either method will cause some change in your liquid 's taste , as you 're lowering the pH by generating carbonic acid , but that 's true of any carbonation scheme .
The salt in the cure inhibits bacterial growth ( particularly if the salt is one made for curing , and contains nitrates ) . So you should be warned that you are trading a few blood pressure points for enhanced risk of foodborne illness . Unfortunately , I think your options are rather limited -- either to keep the salt as-is , or forgo jerky in your diet .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Sadly , baked potatoes are one of those foods that are only truly at their peak when first baked . Either re-baking them or microwaving them will give the least bad results for reheating . Your better bet , however , is to give them a new life , for example as potato pancakes , hash browns , as an ingredient in a hash , or similar application . While they wo n't have the same quality as a fresh baked potato , these can be very good dishes .
In addition to the tips from Joe 's great grandmother , you might want to try and rinse the pasta thoroughly with some lukewarm water after cooking it al dente . That way you rinse off the remaining starch and you prevent the pasta from cooking any further . Rinsing results in firmer pasta that is silky smooth and does n't clump together or get mashed up . Your scoop or tongs will slither right through without damaging the pasta . :)
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
In short , using port as a substitute for red wine will not wreck the dish . Though the flavour is different ( and richer ) and will make your bolognese taste different as a result , the taste should not be bad . I frequently do this as I am not a red wine drinker , and port keeps far better in an open bottle . I would recommend using slightly less than when using red wine , but this is highly subjective .
Yes , it is true that we do n't add oil to the boiling water . I 'm not aware of any good reason to waste extra-virgin olive oil that way ! Some oil is always added at the end , over the sauce , when the pasta is already in the plate ! It has to be raw , so that it retains its fruit nuances and texture . If you are doing cold pasta salad and want to avoid sticky pasta , adding oil in advance wo n't help . You have instead to wash pasta under cold water to wash the starch away ( you can put the pasta in the colander directly under the running cold tap ) .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
They are just a " product number " , and it may vary for the same kind of pasta from a manufacturer to another .
It would certainly be safe . Vermouth is a fortified wine , meaning that it is wine with added alcohol . The added alcohol gives the vermouth a much longer shelf life , even at room temperature after the bottle is opened . You can store open vermouth for at least several months without any discernible loss of quality . It will continue to be safe indefinitely as long as the bottle is kept closed , keeping the alcohol from evaporating . That said , I can see no reason why two vermouths could n't be mixed in advance . As a matter of fact , you could add the bourbon too . Perhaps some kind of alcohol super-taster could tell the difference , but I sincerely doubt that any mere mortal would be able to tell the difference between a just-mixed Manhattan and one that was mixed 3 months ago ( assuming , of course , an airtight container ) .
" Folding " is a more gentle mixing technique than " stirring " and " mixing " . Stirring and mixing both denote a more vigorous action . Folding is usually used for items where something has previously been whipped ( such as egg whites or cream ) or where tenderness is desired and thus less mixing is advisable ( muffins &amp; biscuits ) . Folding is usually done with a rubber spatula ( for liquid &amp; dry ingredients ) or with a wire whisk ( often beneficial for whipped cream and egg whites so that the mixture gently incorporates as it falls through the wires ) . To " fold " ingredients together : Hold the spatula or whisk in your dominant hand and grasp the far edge of the bowl ( side that is away from you ) with your non-dominant hand . Turn the bowl towards you with your non-dominant hand while simultaneously scraping around the edge ( also toward you ) and finish by folding the mixture over on top of itself . Return both hands to the far side of the bowl and follow-up by cutting through the center of the mixture with your utensil and once again folding the mix over on top of itself ( again , turning the bowl simultaneously ) . Alternate scraping around the side and through the middle of the bowl until the mixture is just combined together . Note that if an airy mixture such as egg whites or whipped cream start to go from soft and billowy to more liquid-like , you are overworking it and need to stop to maintain volume . In the case of whipped cream and egg whites you typically add a small portion to the heavier mixture and actually DO stir this in . While yes you 're losing some of the volume of that portion , it serves to help lighten the heavier batter/mixture . The rest of the whites/cream are then folded in to the mix in several additions . Sometimes dry ingredients may be sift on top of whipped eggwhites before being folded . The larger the spatula or whisk , the fewer strokes that will need to be made and the better the results will be .
Well , one obvious answer is to look at the number of portions in the box . ( This is found in the nutrition information . ) Then divide the amount in the box by the number of portions . I just pulled down a box of linguine from my shelf . One pound yields eight 2 oz . portions . Which means all you have to do is divide in half three times . It wo n't be exact , but you 'll get pretty close . ( To get exact , you could always count the number of noodles then divide by eight . But that 's WAY too much work . )
You are going to have to experiment , if you want to use oreos . The problem is that you need somethign strong enough to allow you to roll the glued together tower in fondant . I would try , in order : Tempered chocolate , if you can do that ; its pretty strong when fully cooled Royal icing Very thick ganache Peanut butter
I had to do some reading on this one . There are a lot of answers . 1 - You should find a better recipe . Chocolate spread recipes I have used come in one of two styles . The water in your recipe seems to be a problem . The nutella style that uses fat , sugar , and chocolate . These will not really dry out . Sometimes the oil will separate a little and will need to be mixed back in . I would group frostings in this group although , of course , they contain far more sugar . See this recipe : <URL> Thick chocolate candy . AKA fudge . These contain water but the sugar and water are cooked together into a syrup so the water is not able to immediately dry out . They will crystallize if they are badly handled - many recipes contain a little corn syrup to prevent this . This does not seem to be what you are trying to make . 2 - Store your concoction in a lidded container that is n't too much larger than your sauce . I use mason jars to store mine . Alternatively you can push plastic wrap down onto the surface of the spread . 3 - Refrigeration . Recipes that do n't contain dairy do n't need to be refrigerated and in fact should n't be because it causes them to harden . 4 - Adding water to melted chocolate is only a problem when dealing with chocolate that is dry and meant to solidify such as a molded chocolate . In such a case even a drop of water will cause seizing . In this case where there is already quite a bit of water in the recipe seizing is not a risk and you should n't have any problem mixing a tiny bit back in . Do not add water to the nutella-like spread recipes . They do not contain water and it will not mix in . I ca n't tell from your description what is causing your sauce to harden - it could be drying out , separating , or crystallizing . Any of these will be solved by reheating and thoroughly stirring . Although water could be added to restore dried syrup I think you will get better results by switching to a recipe that uses fat in place of the water .
end question
start question
What can I do to keep high hydration dough from sticking to my hands ?
Let the dough rest in the bowl for a while after mixing . Time will not only improve the flavor ( insert autolyse proselytism here ) but will also give the flour time to hydrate , making the dough somewhat easier to handle . Dough will become less sticky as you work it -- witness the way dough kneaded in a mixer or food processor initially sticks to the sides but eventually forms a ball and leaves the bowl clean . So , one option is to work it a bit with a mixer first , or just with a wooden spoon in the bowl . Anil 's suggestion to oil your hands is a good one . If the kind of dough you 're making allows it , add some oil or butter to the dough during mixing , too . Flour helps , of course . Instead of trying to coat your hands in flour , throw a bit on the kneading surface and on the top of the dough . For very sticky dough , a <URL> can help you scrape the dough off the surface and fold it over onto itself until it becomes easier to handle . This is easiest if you 're working on a hard , smooth kneading surface like marble .
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
It seems like a lot of recipes recomend gelatin , which could add to the stretchyness . I frequent serious eats and a while ago they posted this recipe and they claim that it is great and stretchy . <URL>
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
The easiest way to prevent meringue from weeping is by adding a teaspoon of cornstarch to the recipe , which will absorb the excess moisture that causes it . If you 're a bit adventurous , you can also opt to sprinkle some cookie crumbs over your filling so when it weeps , the crumbs will absorb the moisture .
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
The reason for doing delayed fermentation in the fridge is that the yeast development is slowed down , while still allowing the enzymes that naturally occur in the flour to do their work ( converting starches to sugars , making a more flavorful dough ) . The risk of doing it on the counter instead of the fridge is that the enzymes are working AND the yeast is working , which can over-leaven the bread , and they 'll eat up the sugars you are trying to create with enzymes . Over-leavened bread is n't ideal , but it is n't the end of the world either . There is a lot to learn about bread baking if you want to really excel at it , but " just bake it , it 'll be fine " is always present as you experiment - glad the loaf turned out well ! " No-Knead " bread is a great introduction to " rustic " doughs ( very high water content ) , and to cold fermentation . Cold fermentation is about the best thing you can do for your bread as a home baker , whether or not you are using the no-knead recipe - I cold ferment nearly everything I bake . If you want to learn more about the process and jump off the deep end , Peter Reinhart 's book " The Bread Baker 's Apprentice " is a great place to start . It is detailed without being pedantic , simple without being over-simplified , and oriented for the home baker without forgetting the reasons that professionals do things the way they do .
Well , that 's basically where ice machines come into the game . Often ice recipes tell you to stir the ice during the freezing process every 5 to 10 minutes or so , so the ice will stay softer . That 's what ice machines are taking care of : While freezing the ice they constantly stir the mass , so in the end you will get the perfect soft ice . Anyway if you then place this ice in the freezer , it will become hard nevertheless , since finally it 's all a question of temperature . So you might either go invest in an ice machine or get the ice out of the freezer ( and into the fridge ) some 15 to 30 minutes before serving it . There 's definitely no other way around it .
Yes , it is really chicken fat rendered during the stock making process . Called <URL> in Yiddish , it is an ingredient in its own right . For example , you can use it to fry foods , or instead of butter in creating a roux , when you would like the chickeny flavor it provides . It is a key ingredient in matzo balls , and similarly , makes spectacularly good dumplings of various sorts . You can refrigerate it for several months , tightly covered . It is not necessary to return it to the stock , although you may use it as an additional ingredient in the dishes you make with the stock . Stocks are normally defatted anyway , so you do not need to return it to your stock .
Is n't that normal ? I suppose if it 's causing a problem , you could use a non-stick ( teflon , etc. ) muffin pan , without the paper liners . You could also try silicone-coated ( parchment ) liners . A quick check reveals that e.g. , Amazon sells them . < purist > cornbread shall be cooked in preheated cast iron , and if that 's sticking , you need to <URL> . < / purist >
Simply put , you have to stir them the first three/four minutes of cooking . Be sure to boil them in enough water ( at least 1 liter per 100 grams ) . In addition to that be sure to buy some good quality pasta . From my knowledge pasta tends to stick when the wheat used is of poor quality . A good pasta should not be transparent when seen in direct sunlight , but it should be of a nice pale yellow color and opaque . Good Italian pasta brands that you can find outside of Italy are De Cecco ( which I fear might be quite expensive , and probably not so easy to find ) , or Barilla ( easier to find ) . Both of them has cooking instructions printed on the package . You might want to cook them for 2-3 minutes less than what 's printed , then eventually cook them the remaining couple of minutes together with your sauce .
You certainly can . There are a few things to consider before popping down to the beach and grabbing a bucket . Some areas of the sea are highly contaminated with toxins . Look for some sort of signage to give you a hint , OR look for fishermen . If they feel safe with the fish they are catching I 'd be inclined to think the water was also fine . Sea water is , as you know , very VERY salty . On average around 35g per Liter . So you may benefit from using half tap and half sea water . Be sure to boil the water for a few minutes before adding any food , just to be sure any harmful " biological organisms that might contaminate the water " . Another consideration , you may be interested in , would be harvesting your own salt from the sea water . That way you have more control over the amount penetrating your food/blood stream .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
A few fly traps can help matters tremendously . Take a plastic bottle , like for water or soda , and slice it in two just below the neck . Now take the neck of the bottle , invert it , and place it inside the base of the bottle . Add a few centimeters of " bait " . When I had a terrible fly problem last year , I learned that flies really like the energy drink " Rock Star " . Go figure . After a couple of days with three traps in my kitchen , I no longer had a problem .
A souffle by any other name will fall as quick . ( Sorry , I could n't resist ) . But this is absolutely normal , there is nothing in this recipe to support the structural integrity of cooling air bubbles . You can reduce the amount of rising , which will result in a smaller collapse . To do this , beat the mixture less ( prepare it by hand instead with a mixer to be sure ) and ensure slower , more even heating in the oven . But of course , the collapse will occur . There is some advice floating around which is supposed to reduce the falling rate of souffles . You could try following it even if your recipe does n't involve whipping the eggwhites . It involves things like not crowding the oven and carefully buttering the form , usually with layers of butter and sugar ( or parmesan for savory souffles ) . It wo n't hurt to use them . But do n't expect a risen pudding after it has cooled . Update . I read Charlotte Farley 's answer and thought that it would be great if it works . I had a hunch that it might not , but it would be so awesome if it helps ! So I made the experiment . I made the bread pudding exactly per the recipe given here . I did n't separate the eggs , but took care to whip them for a long time before adding the milk , to ensure a good rise . I baked it in silicon muffin cups , exactly 5 gram of bread and 45 gram of egg mixture per cup . After 45 min at 150 ° C , I quickly removed three cups from the oven and left the remaining three cups there for another 45 min . As a control , I used a simple cheese souffle ( basically a mornay sauche with whipped egg whites ) and repeated the procedures , using 50 g mixture per cup and baking for 20 min at 175 ° C . The results : These are the bread puddings . The directly removed are in the lower row , the ones which remained in the oven are in the upper row . I did n't measure them , but they are nearly the same height . In the oven , all had risen maybe 1 cm over the cup edges , so they all lost ~ 50 % of their oven height . The first group collapsed the second they were out of the oven , the others deflated slowly in the oven , but were already low when I took them out . I weighed both groups after cooling . The " direct from the oven group " weighed 116 g , or 11.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . The " left in oven group " weighed 101 g , or 16.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . When I tried them , I liked the moister ones better , but both groups were OK . Neither was unacceptably dry or egg-white-rubbery . These are the cheese soufflés . They rose more in the oven , to maybe 2.5-3 cm above the cup edges . Again , directly removed ones are in the bottom row , the oven cooled ones are in the top row . There is no visible difference , they all seem deflated to the same size . The weight results are similar as in the bread pudding case : 122 g for the three directly removed souffles , 109 g for the oven cooled ones . Again , I felt that the moister ones tasted better , but this could be a subjective preference . I would n't consider the oven-cooled ones " bad " on their own . Conclusion : The slow oven cooling does n't work :( Estimated 5000 calories worth of egg dishes plus a small package of American bread ( opened ) available for free , collect in person only .
What you need is to deflect the heat from the top of your pie . If you have two racks in your oven , and can position them so that the pie is in the middle with a rack above it , place a piece of aluminum foil directly above the pie . Another option would be to set a piece of foil on top of the pie after it has partially baked . Either way will protect the top from direct heat , allowing the ambient heat to penetrate and bake the whole pie .
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
You can refrigerate all kinds of yeast-bread dough . Right after kneading , before the dough has had a chance to rise , oil the dough lightly , cover with plastic wrap or use a ziplock , and place in the refrigerator . As the dough cools in the refrigerator the action of the yeast will slow down until the dough has reached refrigeration temperature . At that point the yeast is still working , but at a snail 's pace . So , during the first few hours in the fridge it may require a punch down or two , as there may still be enough warmth in the dough for the yeast to show active signs of life . After the dough is completely cool , it may not need anything from you , but still check it at least every 12 hours or so - it may need another punch down . If at any point it grows to close to double it 's original size , go ahead and punch it down . Most doughs will be fine if babysat like this for up to 3 or 4 days . When you 're ready to bake , punch down the dough again ( if necessary ) , shape , and allow to rise as if it had never taken its little nap in the refrigerator . Of course this rise is going to take longer than non-refrigerated dough as it reaches room temperature , but it should be ready to bake when it looks like a non-refrigerated dough of the same type would look when it 's ready to bake . Bake as usual . I 'm sure there are exceptions to the basic rules I 've set out , but I 've never had a problem doing this with any yeast-bread dough .
end question
start question
Why do my brownies inconsistently end up hard and thin ?
You might not be as consistent as you think . See <URL> . One thing that comes to mind is amount of flour , and how ( and how much ) you 're mixing -- but I do n't know that those would make it ' thin ' necessarily , but it would make them tough if you 're over mixing . It might be a temperature issue , if you 're using a solid shortening ( eg , butter ) rather than a liquid shortening . Also , although you said you 're cooking them for the same amount of time , inconsistent oven temperature might turn that into inconsistent baking -- you only want brownies to be set on the sides when you take them out of the oven -- they should fail a toothpick test if you want them fudgy . Cooking them until they 're ' done ' will result in them hardening up as they cool .
You are probably stirring the pudding too much . Cornstarch starts thickening at about 205 ° F/95 ° C . Once the pudding has got to that point and has thickened , stop stirring , otherwise you will interfere with the starch formation that causes the thickening . Using electric beaters probably means you are missing the point when the pudding has thickened and quickly beating the living daylights out of any starch formation that has occurred . It may also be the case that you are beating so much air into the pudding that it just does n't get hot enough to activate the cornstarch in the first place . I would use @ecnerwal 's suggestion of a double boiler , along with a balloon whisk , and some patience .
If the custard over baked , the liquid could have separated from the solid . The creme will look loose , or semi-liquid , when it is removed from the oven after gently baking bain marie ( created by the water poured around the ramekins , placed in a larger container ) . The custard sets during cooling , first on a rack and then in the frig . The sugar may have absorbed the liquid , and became more of a caramel as it was heated , rather than the burnt ( brulee ) crust .
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
I ca n't select either of the above answers as the best answer for the following reason : The brownie I 'm making is meant to be " gooey " , and even after cooling for 2 hours , and then chilling in the fridge for another 30 minutes , the the upper-half brownie still remained fudge-like . I ended up using Jay 's suggestion to eye-ball a 4x4 grid , however I did n't use a hot knife . I used a plastic knife with an up-and-down sawing motion and got fantastic results . The cuts were as clean as you could ask for , and the entire process did n't take more than 5-10 minutes . As an aside : I decided to forgo the " aluminum foil sling " and just spray the 9 " x13 " pan with PAM , line the bottom with parchment paper , and spray it down one more time . The brownie " loaf " came out with zero fuss and had a perfect looking crust . edit : I plan on experimenting with 2 large metal rulers to score the loaf , instead of eyeballing the grid .
I would actually recommend the opposite of what was said above . Since the meat is so thin you may have much better results pan searing it in an extremely hot pan from slightly frozen . This way the outermost layer will start to undergo the maillard reaction long before the inside of the steak reaches a medium-rare temp and will give you a better chance of preventing it from overcooking . This link provides an overview of the process for a much larger piece of meat then your using but the searing process is what your concerned most with since your steaks are so thin . You will likely have to play with the timing a little bit with regards to how frozen the steak needs to start out but I figure erring on the side of too frozen is best since you can then heat them in the oven to the internal temp your looking for . <URL>
The fat in your dough started to soften/melt - especially if you have a hot oven running in the kitchen . Keep your dough cold in the fridge between batches . See <URL> for more details on the issue in general , but for your situation , keep it cold between batches . You seem to have started correctly , which is good - you just have to keep it going right .
Gravy is supposed to be opaque and is a result of using flour as the thickener . If you want clear gravy , like what you would get in a Chinese restaurant , then you need to use corn starch or arrowroot as your thickener . But the opacity is considered to be a good thing . It 's the canned stuff you buy in the store that is clear .
I find when cooked , the skin retains a bit of bitterness and toughness , so in desserts , juices or when shaved/julienned , I 'm inclined to peel them . In fast salads , quick application , I usually do n't bother .
The usual reason given is that Aluminum will react with the alkalis in dishwasher detergent and discolour . <URL>
It 's definitely a very real reaction . I 'm not sure exactly what in the squash it is that causes it , but since different people react differently - some people have strong reactions like you , some people have mild ones , and some have no problem at all - it seems to be some sort of mild allergic reaction . It 's often called contact dermatitis , but that 's a very generic term and does n't really mean anything you do n't already know . I 'm not sure exactly what component of the squash it is that causes it , but I do n't think it 's carotene or potassium . It 's likely some more complex molecule that tends to be present in various winter squashes . Images from <URL> . You can avoid it by completely wearing gloves while working with the squash , or if you 're lucky , you have someone else with you who can handle the squash without problems . For many purposes , like soup , you can also simply cut the squash in half , roast it , then scoop out the good stuff . But if you do really need to peel it and cut into chunks , your best hope is just to try to avoid touching it too much . You 'll also want to wash your hands immediately after , or even a few times while you 're cutting if it takes a while . If you do end up with this despite your best efforts , cortisone cream can help relieve the reaction afterward . ( And as for your soup , there 's nothing wrong with letting more moisture escape in exchange for browning . You can always just add more water or stock back into the soup . This can even be a good thing , since it lets you replace water with a more flavorful liquid . )
From <URL> : Sodium nitrite , used as a curing agent , is what gives pepperoni the pink part of its distinct orange-pink color , while paprika or other capsicum provides the orange part . It cites a <URL> as the source .
If the yeast is n't out of date then the most likely sounding culprit is the temperature of your water . It should be between 105-110 . If it 's too cool then you wo n't activate the yeast and if you get it too warm you 'll start to kill it . Another possible case can be when you 're adding the salt . If it 's going in before or at the same time as the sugar you will arrest the gas production and activity of the yeast . Get the yeast , sugar , water mixture going first and create a shaggy dough with your flour . Add the salt as you 're starting to bring the dough together so that it does n't act too quickly to arrest the yeast development . If you keep your flour in the freezer or refrigerator , make sure it has come to room temperature before adding it to the water or the chill of the flour will de-activate the yeast .
Perhaps I 'm stating the obvious , but is your oven rack perfectly level ? Muffin mix initially has low enough viscosity that it can be influenced by gravity as it gradually rises . Even a small inclination of the tray/rack is likely to cause this .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
Gerbil gave the basic reasons as to why this might be happening , but as for the ' how to recover ' ... you have a few options : Wait for it to finish separating , and take the oil off , then serve without oil . If you still want some fat for mouthfeel , after separating , you can add some butter back into the warm ( but not too hot ) sauce , and stir 'til melted and combined . If going for a more gravy-like consistency , after separating , put the oil back into the pan , make a roux and follow the <URL> , but use the juices in place of the milk . After separating , take some of the non-oil part , add an emulsifier ( eg , mustard ) , then slowly whisk back in some fat , add some of the juices , then slowly add the rest of the fat 'til it 's the consistency you want . Put it into a blender an mix ( although , open the vent hole , then put a towel over the lid , and hold it down with one hand when you turn it on ... blending hot things can be a mess ) or use a stick blender . In the future , I would separate out the juice &amp; fats before reducing . You never know quite how much fat will render out of a piece of meat , and I feel I can reduce the juices faster when there is n't fat in there , but I 've never actually timed it . Or , you can go the roux / gravy route if you 're in a hurry .
I have a theory about your omelette ( and sadly , no means to test it ) . But I think it is plausible , please feel free to point out logical errors . I think that the unappetizing coloring is due to the creation of sulfur salts in your pan . Egg whites are rich in sulfur , as are all alliums ( including chives ) . If you heat them enough ( you do n't mention whether you overcooked the omelette , but it happens often enough ) , the heat changes the molecules in which the sulfur is bound , and the sulfur atoms ( or sulfur containing ions ) are free to react with whatever they find around . If they happen to find iron or copper , they form sulfides and sulfates with them . These sulfides and sulfates have colors ranging from blue to green , and pure iron sulfide is black . A mixture of them with the yellow yolk can easily look gray , especially when the color is desaturated through the addition of white cream cheese . You say you used a coated pan , but there are still possible sources for the iron and copper . First , nuts contain trace elements , including iron and copper . Second , yolks too contain iron ( in fact , the bluish coloring on the surface of a hard boiled yolk is an iron sulfide created when the proteins in the egg white denaturated from the heat ) . Third , you ca n't exclude contamination of the ingredients ( plants sometimes store metal ions from the environment ) . I have no way to prove any of the above , but at least it sounds like a good working theory . But I will understand if you are n't eager to reproduce in order to investigate the effect closer .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
The oven shelf is not the back of the oven . Basically what you would do is lift one side a little ( maybe an inch or so ) and let it drop . Then you can do the other side . This will give you a more fudgy and less cake-like crumb , as the cake-like finish comes from trapped air bubbles . If you rap the pan to help the air escape then you have less trapped air and thus a denser , more fudge-like crumb .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
end question
start question
How do I butter popcorn without making it soggy ?
Another option is to make your popcorn in a pot using butter as the oil for the bottom . I find that if you toast the unpopped popcorn kernels in the butter , it gives a bit of a butter flavor to the entire pot -- less than if you were to put butter on the top , but plenty for me .
A glass of water in the microwave will result in less microwave energy reaching the popcorn . I use a large glass of water ( 8 - 12 oz . ) when I 'm softening butter because I want the water to absorb most of the energy . For popcorn , you may get by with 2-4 ounces of water . I 've also found that the amount of oil makes a huge difference . I sometimes pop popcorn in a paper lunch bag . If I do n't use any oil , I get the combination of burnt and unpopped you described . With a teaspoon of oil added to 1/3 cup of popcorn , results are a lot better . Perhaps you just need a little more oil to get great popcorn .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
I use a potato peeler to peel it . I cut off the top then peel down in strips . with a good peeler you can save most of the flesh this way . I use a <URL> .
It is perfectly normal for sugar to turn dark brown when making . If it turns even darker , it is because it has been burning too hot . <URL> , so you want to get there gradually . As for the color , many recipes call for to make it smoother and tender , but only incorporate it after the crystals are fully dissolved and you 're ready to take it off the burner . I 've seen a few youtube videos with just sugar and water for sugar cages ...
I 've always done it with my hands . Just do n't let it soak too long , it will still be in one piece and will be generally easy to handle .
I suggest you use royal icing instead of butter icing . Basically made from icing sugar ( powder sugar ) and egg white , it will cost very little and can still be coloured if necessary . Once you have tried out all the simple styles you scrape it off the board or work surface , mix it well and practice again . Store in a sealed air-tight container in the fridge for 1-2 days . This will give you time to make more intricate flowers , trellis , run out collars , nests , baskets , etc. on small squares of greaseproof paper , nails , etc. . Dry in an airy place and once completely set and hard , you can keep the results in a sealed container in a cool dry place for weeks to use as cake or cookie decorations . If you are really serious about becoming a sugar artist , it will be important to master royal icing , so you might as well start out with using it for " basic training " , so to speak .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
Butter is typically added when the fudge is first taken off the heat - but it is n't mixed in . The butter is allowed to melt across the surface to keep it from forming a skin on top . Vanilla , nuts , and all other additions are mixed in at the end of the cooling period when the fudge is stirred . Alton Brown , with some help from Shirley Corriher , <URL> .
The reason is that butter can inhibit gluten formation . It ' coats ' the proteins that would form gluten . You knead the dough first to get gluten , and then add the butter afterward around the already formed gluten . You can add it earlier , you just end up with less gluten and a more tender dough . Creaming is n't usually done with bread , as its purpose is air bubble formation .
As others have said , the issue is the hot oil and water interacting . You need to reduce or eliminate one in order to prevent the splatter or find a way to mitigate the damage . Remember the basics - allow the meat to warm up to room temperature before cooking and pat it dry before you begin . That should allow you to use less oil without it turning into a charred lump with a raw center . You can use a lid or a screen to prevent splatter ( you might need to adjust cooking time with a lid that will trap more heat ) .
One reason to make your own butter is that you get distinctly different flavours depending on the type of cream you use . If you use fresh cream you get sweet butter which is popular in North America , Australia and Britain , but less easy to come by in continental Europe . If you use a cultured cream like Crème fraîche you get cultured butter , which is common throughout most of Europe . Cultured butter is slightly soured by lactic acid . It has a fuller , more complex flavour than sweet butter . If you decide to make it , be sure that you do n't use a cultured cream that includes artificial thickeners . The ingredient list should read something like " pasteurised cream , lactic-acid culture " ( apologies if that 's not accurate ; I 'm translating from Swedish ) . I have a couple of other reasons why I personally want to make butter . First of all my four year old son has been asking how butter is made , and this would be a great way show him . The second reason is that I 'm curious as to how real buttermilk tastes ( the buttermilk in the supermarkets is fermented milk ) . And last of all , I noticed that my beurre noir sauce was working out much better when I lived in Australia , so I 'd like to do some side-by-side comparisons with European butter .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
Its been a while but I found this thread as I was wondering the same thing ... Not much info on raw okara but I just googled raw soybeans ... " For human consumption , soybeans must be cooked with " wet " heat to destroy the trypsin inhibitors ( serine protease inhibitors ) . Raw soybeans , including the immature green form , are toxic to humans , swine , chickens , and in fact , all monogastric animals . " From wikipedia <URL>
That foam is more of the milk solids , brought up and made foamy by water evaporating . The Joy of Baking says it is whey protein specifically . I usually discard it but you can eat it . Some people like it on toast or other places where you might use butter or a light sprinkling of mild cheese .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
The key is to have the finest possible salt . One way to do this is to take any salt you like , and grind it fine in a mortar and pestle . This just takes a few seconds , and then you can customize to a particular sea salt you enjoy and avoid the need to buy a special popcorn salt . A rotating action in the mortar and pestle ( as opposed to pounding ) is most efficient for grinding salt .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
end question
start question
Is it absolutely necessary to season a carbon steel pan ?
I would never leave it unseasoned . Carbon steel rusts . If you just cook with sufficient oil , and let it cool down with the oil still inside , and then clean gently ( preferably without any soap ) , the inner bottom will indeed session itself with time , as tfd mentioned . But the rest of the pan will be exposed to the air and will create a layer of rust . If you do n't use it frequently enough , or if you prepare acidic food in it before it has gathered some seasoning ( and most vegetables are acidic ) , you will get rust on the bottom too , before seasoning has had time to build up on its own . Ingesting rust is not an immediate health risk , but it is better to avoid it . Our bodies were n't designed for it , and you might end up with too much iron in your diet . It is also porous , so the pan would be hard to clean well . And it looks really shabby to have a rusty pan in the kitchen . And if this is your first " normal " pan after years of non stick , you might be amazed at the amount of oil needed to prevent food from sticking . It looks terrifying to our modern " fat is bad " eyes . And you still have to be careful , despite the oil . With time , you will learn to cook the right way , but having it seasoned first certainly helps . There is no law requiring you to season , but to me , the above reasons are enough to always season .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
I wok on an electric stove and have found there 's a few tips to really help - its not perfect , but it helps : Preheat , preheat , preheat . Before you start any of your prep , put your wok on the stove and crank the heat . Let it heat up before you do anything at all to it . Make sure everything is at least at room temperature . We often use frozen stir fry veggies , but we thaw them out first and they 're at least at room temp before they go in . The same goes for meat . For sauces , we 'll often microwave it so that its a bit warm before it even goes in . If you have a screaming hot wok , and you add cold food - then for a long time it will only steam the food . Do it in batches . Do n't crowd your wok until everything is already hot . If you 're doing meat and veggies - do the meat first , take it off , let the pan reheat , and then do some of the veggies . Work in batches so that the pan temperature does n't drop and give it time to reheat between batches . Assemble it all at the end .
You certainly should season it , else cooking in it will make it rust . Also , your iron intake will rise rapidly if it 's not seasoned , which can become a problem if you 're eating too frequently from it . What Wikipedia is telling you is to not use reactive metal vessels ( cast iron or carbon steel ) for acidic dishes at all . Not to use them unseasoned .
I 'd suggest <URL> as a starting point . They specifically investigated the food safety of chicken in 2010 and found that ( among other things ) : Campylobacter was in 62 percent of the chickens , salmonella was in 14 percent , and both bacteria were in 9 percent . Only 34 percent of the birds were clear of both pathogens . That 's double the percentage of clean birds we found in our 2007 report but far less than the 51 percent in our 2003 report . Store-brand organic chickens had no salmonella at all , showing that it 's possible for chicken to arrive in stores without that bacterium riding along . But as our tests showed , banishing one bug does n't mean banishing both : 57 percent of those birds harbored campylobacter . Among all brands and types of broilers tested , 68 percent of the salmonella and 60 percent of the campylobacter organisms we analyzed showed resistance to one or more antibiotics . The same issue seems to come up over and over again in food safety questions , and I really ca n't stress this enough : Salmonella is not the only dangerous bacteria in food . <URL> is just <URL> and produces heat-resistant enterotoxins that simply put , can make you very , very sick . Perfringens is also common , and <URL> . I 've seen a number of articles and blogs claiming that people " worry too much " and most of them cite Ippuku in SF , which generated quite a stir by serving chicken tartare . It 's legal in many countries for a restaurant to serve raw or undercooked food , provided that there is informed consent ( the customer is specifically informed or specifically orders that their food be undercooked ) . However , legal is a very long way from safe , especially when we 're talking about raw meat . Steak tartare is more acceptable because , for some reason , <URL> and the incidence of E.coli is <URL> at only 0.26 % . Raw beef is n't totally safe but most healthy people who eat it will not have complications afterward . So , to summarize : Raw chicken : ~ 20 % salmonella ( depending on source ) , ~ 60 % campylobacter ( any source ) Raw beef : Less than 0.1 % e.coli , ~ 2 % campylobacter ( any source ) Conclusion : If you eat raw beef ( steak tartare ) , you 're a risk-taker . If you eat raw chicken , you have a death wish . Just say no . At an absolute minimum , please do n't serve this to your dinner guests with assurances that it will be safe . What you do to your own body is your decision to make , but it would be grossly irresponsible to serve anything made with raw chicken to anyone who has n't been made fully aware of the risks . P.S. . Some of this data may be U.S. specific , but the problem is worldwide . For example : A <URL> showed a 36.7 % contamination rate for salmonella and 84.3 % for campylobacter , ( thanks TFD ! ) . A <URL> showed a 37.5 % incidence rate for salmonella and 75 % for campylobacter . So do n't expect to be safer simply because you do n't live in the U.S. . If you 're planning on doing this , you should check what your country 's regulations and current statistics are regarding salmonella , campylobacter , C. perfringens , and listeria , for farms and plants producing chicken meat . That is your actual risk . Buying " organic " might help , or might not , since organic is currently not a true legal or regulatory category in most regions .
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
It definitely does not need to be stirred continuously . Fairly frequently , yes , to avoid burning on the bottom , but not constantly . Cooking for more or less time has more impact on texture than flavor . Cooked briefly , you get more of a grain-like cream of wheat texture . Cooked long , you get a creamier , smoother result . Both can be good , but the creamy style is more traditional .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
Generally speaking , when the length of the cooking time required to cook the filling correctly is such that the crust would burn if it was n't covered . It is usually more necessary when you have blind-baked the crust , but I must say I 've cooked a lot of pies in my time and never covered the crust because I 'm always careful to par-bake the crust just enough to seal it and no more .
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
I agree with everything rumtscho said in her answer . I would add the " crowding " may be a little vague because the density of food in the pan may vary significantly depending on what the ingredients are . It 's also worth noting that definitions of things like sauteing and sweating can vary a bit from person to person , and there are cooking techniques that seem to fall " in the middle " between these or ca n't really be classified under strict definitions of one or the other . They may be less effective in producing specific results , but they are often more practical for those who want to cook reasonably quickly without many stages for a single recipe . For example , take your <URL> . The quantities of chicken , onions , and mushrooms added will not make this a " strict " saute , which should generally allow all food to be in contact with the pan so conduction is the primary heating method . On the other hand , it 's not really a " strict " sweat either , which is usually done with lower heat ( not " medium high " as in the recipe ) and is n't generally done for browning ( unlike the recipe , which states to " brown the chicken well " ) . Some might call it pan-frying , given the bacon grease and large pieces of chicken , but the veggies will make this mixture more moist than typical frying in the first few minutes . So what is this recipe doing ? I 'm sure different people would have different opinions , but it 's a very common technique too . Often one throws a lot of ingredients in a pan that initially release moisture ( " sweating " ? ) over high heat , but after that initial burst of moisture evaporates off , the ingredients will begin to brown ( " sauteing " ? ) , though they might require periodic stirring to keep changing the food in contact with the very hot pan surface . To try to answer your question -- if you want Maillard reactions and browning , you either need to get the temperature of the food surface significantly above boiling or potentially cook for a much longer time . What amount of heat and the amount of acceptable " crowding " will depend on how quickly the food releases moisture and how long it takes for any released moisture to evaporate off . For example , if you 're cooking hamburgers in a skillet , they will often release a lot of moisture quickly . To avoid " crowding " and get acceptable browning you not only want all of the burgers in contact with the pan surface , but you also want to have significant gaps between the burgers to allow any water that might be released and pool around the burgers to evaporate as quickly as possible . Density of food pieces here is quite low with large gaps on the pan surface . But in other cases you might have much smaller gaps and even food piled up a few layers thick and still achieve browning . For another example , if you 're trying to create caramelized onions , you often do n't want to just brown the surface of the food ( as in burgers ) , but also cook them thoroughly for a long time to get adequate Maillard browning throughout . In that case , you might not want to saute in a strict sense where all food is in constant pan contact , since that might burn the onions prematurely . So , you can pile up the onions a bit more in the pan without it being " overcrowded , " since after the first 10 minutes or so of cooking , the liquid release starts to slow down significantly and the temperature of the food will rise . Periodic stirring will allow enough pan contact to encourage browning . Bottom line : In most cases , if you want browning , you need to avoid crowding so much that liquid pools in the pan . Then you 're really steaming or sweating or even simmering/boiling ( if enough liquid appears ) . If the liquid is evaporating fast enough that the food in contact with the surface can get above boiling , it 's easier to get browning . While it 's often more effective to do a " strict " saute or sweat or fry or whatever for very specific effects , recipes often combine such steps together to make the cooking easier -- for example , as in the recipe above , starting with a " crowded " pan that sweats and softens the food , but then cooking over high heat long enough that the food will eventually dry out and/or be in prolonged pan contact and allow for some browning . Other recipes might deliberately use an " overcrowded " pan with food that does n't release a lot of moisture but piled high over high heat ( and stirred frequently , like stir-frying ) , which effectively combines some of the sweating and sauteing effects and may allow you to get your cooking done more quickly and efficiently ( i.e. , without various stages and multiple pans ) .
Marinating your meat makes it safer primarily by introducing it to salt , which kills bacteria . It is possible to make jerky safely without it , though you need to be careful . You should use lean meat ; fat is the most likely component in the meat to go bad . It 's also important to regulate the temperature closely and make sure hold the meat at temperature for long enough . You can get some really really nasty bacteria if you do n't cure meat correctly , so it 's worth taking some time on it . Check out <URL> for more info .
I write it as a seasoned carbon steel knife user and a hobbyist knifemaker . Use edible oil or nothing Safety first . You can use any oil as long as you are really , really sure you would n't mind it added to your food . Patina is good . There are two kinds of iron oxide . Let 's call them red ( rust ) and black ( patina ) . Black one is good . It mitigates red rust It 's less sticky It 's mostly tasteless It 's main drawback - it 's ugly . <URL> This is my everyday carbon steel knife . It 's scrached and developed patina . It does not mind being used for cooking . It no longer requires wiping every minute , it can well be washed and dried after few hours . How to develop good patina ? First , the less patina you already have , the slower you need to go . Do n't keep virgin steel wet too long . Only after it begins to darken you can allow it to stay wet longer . Remove red rust when you see it . But do n't just use scrubber . If you want to develop patina fast , you should boil your knfe 's blade for ten or twenty minutes when you see it getting red . This will convert some red to black . Then gently scrub the rest of red from your blade . If you do n't want to boil , just gently remove rust , carefully not destroying patina . If you want to artificially develop patina , dijon mustard is especially good for that . Few hours in warm place should do the job . Lemon juice is not half bad , either .
There 's no health issue here , the sausages will be cooked enough to be safe . The reason you fry off the sausages first is that you make the casings more edible , get flavor from maillard reactions and browning , and maybe get rid of some of the fat ( if you discard the fat that comes out of the sausages that is ) . I 'm thinking that the sausage casings could end up being a bit soggy , however that depends on several factors and you 'll probably get a good result . Worst case is you do n't eat the sausage casings .
end question
start question
Make chocolate with a high melting point ?
Chocolate chips made for baking have a higher melting point . The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 & deg ; C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 ° C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
Umami comes from a very specific source : <URL> . MSG is a glutamate , so it is one of the best ways to add a bit of umami . Meat , Kombu seaweed ( used to make Dashi , and hence Dashi ) , mushrooms , onions , cheeses , soy and other beans , most high-protein foods . <URL> is a quick list . Most are prepared foods , but it should give you an idea .
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
You ca n't really substitute marshmallows in that recipe . I have had some luck with the following procedure : Get a good quality chocolate of the flavour you would like to use . Do not try chocolates with 70 % cocoa solids or more . They are good for some things , but not for this . Melt it in a double boiler . Do not make the chocolate boil or heat it directly ( some can do that but most people end up with burned chocolate ) . Remove it from the heat . Fold in 2 spoons of glycose syrup ( for regular nonmilky chocolate ) and mix fast . Let it cool and when it gets close to room temperature , put it in the fridge . For darker chocolates , use a bit more glucose and less for lighter chocolates .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
Well - not exactly . The reason that this technique works with lemons is that they actually do contain quite a bit of water . It 's not so much " water-free " as it is using the residual water from the rinds and un-squeezed pips . Mint contains a lot less water by weight , so if you tried it in similar portions you 'd wind up not with mint syrup , but with slightly-damp mint-flavored sugar . However , that might actually work pretty well for your intended purpose . The flavorful oils in mint will dissolve very well in sugar or in something with a lot of fats , like cream . You could try gently muddling fresh mint in a small amount of sugar and letting it sit until the mint looks ragged , dissolve the mixture in cream , filter out any little bits of mint , and then using that to make your whipped cream . You could also try breaking up the mint a bit and letting it sit in your cream for a while to extract the essential oils , but my suspicion is that you wo n't get quite as intense an extraction that way . The other option that bears mentioning is using an essential oil or extract to flavor your cream or cream cheese instead .
If your carrots are going soft after just a few days , you 're not storing them properly . Mine keep for weeks and weeks . I leave them in the plastic bag , and keep that in one of the vegetable drawers in my fridge . How are you storing yours ? A rubbery soft carrot is n't bad for you , it just is n't very pleasant . A slimy carrot is bad for you , do n't eat it .
Flash-freezing equipment would n't hurt , but for the normal home cook , the main things are to chill it as quickly as reasonably possible , package it with as much air removed as possible ( vacuum sealers help here ) in individual meal-sized portions , then freeze . Thaw in the fridge if possible , or by heating your vacuum-sealed bag in a water bath . ( Microwaves are pretty bad at heating frozen blocks of food and even with a lot of attention paid will tend to overheat part while other parts remain frozen . ) Choose recipes that work for the equipment you have , and adapt your weeknight process to combine the frozen ingredients with fresh ones . Soups , many sauces , chilis , beans and rice dishes freeze well under normal home conditions , as do some meat preparations ( the texture can change , and usually , the larger the cut of meat , the more likely it is that the change from freezing will be negative ) . Without flash-freezing , foods with a high water content tend to become mushy , so that the broccoli you steamed to perfection will most likely thaw out to be limp and potatoes may be mushy .
To answer your last question : yes . Regarding the previous question , it 's because the temperature at which the cocoa butter in the chocolate crystallizes affects the overall consistency of the chocolate . If you 've ever eaten a chocolate bar that was left in a car on a hot day after it has cooled down again , and who has n't , you 'll know about this . Sometimes chocolate tastes fine but has a definite ' grittiness ' to it : other things being equal , that 's usually because the cocoa butter crystals are too large . Cocoa butter has a number of different crystal forms , each of which will have a slightly different effect on texture and melting point . When melted chocolate sets , the cocoa butter crystallizes , and it will generally all crystallize with the structure that it starts to crystallize with . ( This process where crystals start to grow is called nucleation . ) So you want to have control over the temperature at which crystallization starts . The optimum crystal form for nice chocolate will tend to predominate when crystallization starts somewhere between 18-25 degrees C ( around 64-77F ) . So if you think about it : when you add room temperature stuff ( like a pretzel ) to chocolate that is considerably hotter than room temperature , the resultant temperature on the surface of that pretzel will likely be way higher than 18-25 degrees . On the other hand , if you are dipping an item that is significantly below room temp , then your chances of hitting that window are much higher . The surface structure of the thing being dipped can of course make a difference to crystallization as well , but for normal purposes that is marginal . To put it another way , it does n't matter what ingredients you 're dipping - temperature is key !
I use beer a LOT for my cooking . As the others have said , you need to watch out for the bitterness , which can intensify when you cook and reduce it down . As such , I often cook with different beers than I drink . You can use the IBU ( International Bitterness Unit ) rating for a beer to get an idea of whether your favorite beer will be a problem . Personally , I use Guinness and other dark beers when red wine is called for in a recipe . The flavors are definitely different than the red wine version , but it usually comes out good . I also cook quite a bit with wheat beers and the kind of beers that people describe as " nutty " , like porters . America 's Test Kitchen looked at beers for cooking at one point and a " non-alcoholic " beer actually did really well : O'Doul 's Amber . I agree with them and tend to keep it on hand for cooking , even though I never drink it . It stays mellow and away from the bitter flavors when used for cooking . So , what do I cook with it ? Like most of the others , cooking bratwurst before grilling and cheese fondue , but I also use it for lots of other stuff . I have a baked bean version that uses 4 cans of beer and a couple of shots of whiskey and sits in a crock pot on low for 24 hours . I 've made this with all different kinds of beer and each brings something different to the results . ( <URL> ) I also like using beer in most of my stews . Throw beef chunks , veggies and beer in the crock pot in the morning and it 's a tasty stew when you get home . It works well as the liquid for braising pork or beef . In the winter , I 'll often throw a pork shoulder roast into the crock pot with a bottle of beer and let it slow cook all day . When it 's completely falling apart , I pull it out , shred it and add back as much of the beer as the shredded mess will hold ( which turns out to be far more than you thought ) . What results is a juicy sandwich option , which is really good , topped with mustard or bbq sauce . It comforts me when it 's too cold to deal with slow smoking pork ( I live in MN ) . I 'll also often take some of that shredded " drunk " pork to my baked beans and give the beans some extra dimension . We do a version of " bangers and mash " that I use beer in the gravy/sauce that I like . Beer and self-rising flour make for a really quick quickbread that has an interesting flavor profile . I particularly like using wheat beers like Leinenkugel 's Sunset Wheat , as the wheat flavors work well in a bread . Beers ( and hard ciders , which I actually REALLY like ) work well for marinades . Beyond that , I tend to find myself just tossing a few ounces of it into a lot of other liquids/sauces to add some flavor .
The typical tricks used by chocolate manufacturers is to change the viscosity of chocolate by adding a gel like xanthan gum or glycerine . The other trick is to incorporate more water into the chocolate with the aid of an emulsifier such as lecithin . All these techniques are hard to do at home as they require many hours of stirring the chocolate to avoid grittiness . <URL> often give recipes . One can buy chocolate with higher melting points . <URL> melts at 55 ° C , the highest melting point for a commercial chocolate that I know of , but is not yet on sale . Many of the commercial chocolate bars , such as the wartime <URL> use chocolate that incorporate these techniques as do the <URL> .
First of all , it is extremely rare for the yolk of an egg to become contaminated if the egg is reasonably fresh . Contamination only tends to occur when the egg is quite old and the yolk membrane weakens . ( <URL> ) Now , that said , egg yolks begin to set at a temperature of 62 ° C ( 144 ° F ) , and salmonella can be killed at temperatures as low as 59 ° C ( 138 ° F ) , so it actually is possible to " cook " the yolk sufficiently to kill any bacteria without letting it set , but you have a very small window to work with , so you need to be careful . If the temperature is even 1 ° too low , you 'll just be encouraging the spread of more bacteria , and if it 's even 1 ° too high , you 'll ruin your recipe because the yolk will set . Nevertheless , if you have a reliable , uniform heat source , you could attempt to heat the egg to 60-61 ° C for about 1 minute . Unfortunately , you wo n't be able to use the technique used in other recipes - such as Bavarian cream - of simply using the residual heat of the other wet ingredients to cook the yolk sufficiently for safety while not allowing sufficient time to set . Dark chocolate is the most heat-resistant but will easily burn at temperatures significantly above 50 ° C ( 125 ° F ) . Mixing the chocolate with cream may raise this temperature slightly , and I admit to not being certain of the exact amount , but I 'm pretty sure it wo n't get you up to the required 59 ° C - and it really actually needs to be much higher than that because the temperature must stay that high for several seconds after adding the eggs . So my advice to you is to either : Pre-cook the yolks very carefully to a temperature just below 62 ° C ( use a thermometer ! ) ; or Use very fresh eggs from a reliable source ; or Do n't eat mousse made with egg yolks , if you ca n't tolerate the ( very low ) risk .
I have used a rice cooker lid as a replacement on an old crock pot . It has a small venting hole as you described . I have been using this lid for years now and have yet to have a dish dry out . The hole is just too small to let much water out .
Trying to get to the bottom of the issue , I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt . The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional ( the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt , so you are getting an accurate size comparison ) . The picture illustrates my suspicions , which is the difference is the surface area ( ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt ) . Standard table salt is a compact little cube , effective when it 's to be dissolved in a liquid , but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds . Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact , meaning , a lot of salt without much saltiness . Sea salt , with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue . Ground salt is more like shards of glass , so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty . Also with a much finer texture , you are left with many more particles in a wider area , meaning , a saltier taste with less salt . It 's a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all . When you are dissolving it in a liquid , it really makes little difference which type you use . When it comes down to it , it 's all about how picky you want to be with it .
Short answer : yes , milk chocolate differs from chocolate by the milk its manufacture . Real chocolate ( as opposed to many other confections ) is made from chocolate liquer , which despite the name , is not alchoholic , or even liquid at room temperature . The fruit of the <URL> tree contains seeds , known as beans . The harvested fruits are allowed to ferment , bringing many flavor and chemical changes to the beans , as well as removing the pulpy fruit . The beans are then husked for the seeds inside , the nibs . The nibs are the first true chocolate product , although they are not sweet . The nibs are roasted , and then ground . This is chocolate liquer , a solid colloid of cocoa fat and solid particles . It would be solid at room temperature , but the grinding process melts it . The cocoa liquer can be pressed to separate out the cocoa butter ( as for use in the cosmetics industry ) , leaving cocoa powder , but that is not the point of your question . Instead , to manufacture chocolate , the liquer is <URL> , a mechanical process that makes the suspended particles much smaller , part of what gives chocolate its smooth mouthfeel . Various products can be made from chocolate liquer , or cocoa butter , including : baking chocolate - essentially , just chocolate liquer , hardened and tempereded . May or may not be fully conched , so may not be as smooth as chocolate intended for eating . chocolate or dark chocolate - Chocolate liquer , possibly extra cocoa butter , and sugar . Minor optional ingredients often included are vanilla or other flavorings , and lecithen , an emulsifier . milk chocolate - Same as dark chocolate , with the addition of condensed milk or milk solids , depending on whether it is made via the Swiss method or the Hershey method white chocolate - cocoa butter , plus sugar and other flavorings chocolate chips - Another form of chocolate in a particular shape . Many manufacturers do n't make these from true chocolate , but rather substitute another fat which does n't melt as easily as cocoa butter , for economy , and so the chips hold their shape in the oven chocolate bunny - Chocolate molded into the shape of a bunny , then tempered and cooled German 's chocolate - A brand name of quite sweet dark chocolate Chocolate labels which list " cocoa percentage " are saying what proportion of the chocolate is cocoa liquer or additional cocoa butter or cocoa solids -- that is , stuff from nibs , as opposed to sugar or other flavorings . The cocoa percentage for milk chocolate tends to be much lower than that of dark chocolates , although not every milk chocolate has a lower percentage than every dark chocolate . See <URL> for information on tempering chocolate , which gives its snappy mouthfeel . Edit : On dairy products in dark chocolate : I was very surprised at Lemontwist 's comment , so I did some googling and found this <URL> : A good quality dark or semi-sweet chocolate will only have sweetener / sugar in some form added , and may also include a touch of soy lecithin as an emulsifier . These brands are milk-free by ingredients , but keep in mind that most brands of chocolate are made on shared equipment . That is , an inherently milk-free dark chocolate may be made on the same equipment as milk chocolate . See below for my note on cross-contamination issues . The complications arrive as some brands of dark and semi-sweet chocolate do include milk ingredients for a " smoother " end result . This is particularly true in mainstream brands like Hershey 's . Some ways that you may see milk listed in the ingredients include milk solids , milk , milk powder , whey , butter oil or butterfat ( see the Ask Alisa post on butter oil ) , or even casein . If milk is in the ingredients , it should be listed in a clearly identifiable manner per the labeling laws , but still , use caution . This is still in line with the information I provided , as I did mention " other flavorings " in dark chocolate , and it is not a universal or even common practice as far as I know . For people with strong allergies , the cross-contamination issue may be more of an issue . Vegans would have more of an issue , as lecithen is a very common ingredient in chocolate of all types , and may be animal sourced . Vegans would specifically need to reseearch and obtain chocolates that meet that standard . Googling will find many such products , but I did not find an easy single reference list .
You 'll want to temper the melted chocolate . This means holding it at 88 ° F ( 31 ° C ) while it cools until it is completely hardened , then finally allowing it to return to room temperature ( or lower ) afterward . If you temper the chocolate this way , it will be much harder and last indefinitely at room temperature . The easiest way to temper chocolate is the " seed method " , which means adding a piece of solid ( never-melted ) chocolate to the fully-melted chocolate after removing it from the heat source and stirring thoroughly until the temperature reaches 88 ° F / 31 ° C , and then keeping it at that temperature until you 're ready to use it . ( Note that this is for dark chocolate ; for temperatures for other types of chocolate and for a more detailed guide to tempering , I suggest you check out the <URL> . ) The technical explanation for this is that the temperature at which melted chocolate hardens determines its final consistency as a solid . If chocolate hardens at room temperature , it ends up forming a very weak crystalline structure that begins to melt at even the slightest rise in temperature ( i.e. in your hand ) . Allowing it to solidify at the highest possible temperature below the actual melting point ensures that it forms a denser crystalline structure and will not melt at room temperature .
Spanish hot chocolate and Italian cioccolata fiorentina both use cornstarch as a thickening agent . Both are used more for dipping or sipping ( churros in the former case ) , however you could easily just use less cornstarch to make it more ' drinkable ' . Try a teaspoon of cornstarch , mixed with a little cold water , added to the milk when you boil it . As Kate Gregory suggests , you could also use full-fat milk , or loads of shaved chocolate .
Chocolate will stay fresh for weeks or even months if stored correctly . And yes , the spheres will stay as shiny and beautiful as you made them if you store them correctly : in a cool , dark place away from sunlight but not necessarily in the fridge - taking them out will lead to condensation on the surface at rather constant temperature and dry . So in short : A large enough foodsafe plastic container in a cool cellar or cupboard , away from ( sun - ) light and , if applicable , curious kids , pets or others that might feast on your stash in advance . Unless you have a high humidity environment , it 's not absolutely necessary that the box be airtight . But if you want to be really sure , include some silica gel packs against excess humidity . Do not stack them like nested bowls , or you could scratch or otherwise damage the glossy surface . If you have to , place one layer in your box , cover with parchment , foil or similar , add a sheet of cardboard for stability and another layer of parchment or foil , then the next layer of spheres . Good luck and have a good party !
end question
start question
How to get spongy slightly chewy pancakes ?
In my reading , injera is a sourdough-leavened flatbread , and it does indeed have the consistency you describe . I 've made it with wheat and ( the more traditional ) <URL> flour . It 's not sweet or quick-bread ( in any sense ! ) but is fun , tasty , and worth a try to eat or make . If I 'm understanding correctly , what you 're looking for is a pancake with qualities I 'm often trying to avoid . :) Guesses on how to get where you want , based on what you 've got so far , based on what I 've done accidentally in the past . Apologies that this is all over the map . Over-mix your batter . With quick-breads you often want delicate crumb ; over-mixing will give you more gluten development ( assuming wheat or other gluten-containing flour ) . This will have a more rubbery mouthfeel . Let your batter rest longer . This will also allow gluten to develop ( and/or relax ) , which might have a similar effect . Use a harder ( higher-percentage gluten ) <URL> . Flours will vary greatly in protein ; try a high protein " bread flour " made with hard wheat . These might help with the sponginess factor also . Might also want to experiment with type and amount of leavening . more or less quantity of baking powder , or perhaps baking soda optionally with some kind of acid ( e.g. , buttermilk ) . yeasted pancakes ! I ca n't immediately find a passable recipe link , but James Beard had a lovely ( albeit a bit finicky ) overnight yeast pancake recipe . Give it about 4 attempts before you abandon it . :) Wackier suggestions : Try soy milk . Unlikely to be how your favorite restaurant is accomplishing it 's feat , but this might do something different because of protein or perhaps if there 's other adulterants or thickeners like gums or so . Go off the deep end : try a thickener like corn starch , arrowroot , carrageenan , xanthan gum , ... Try a gluten-free pancake recipe or mix . Who knows ! Good luck ! Have fun ! And let me know if I 've missed your goal .
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
The strongest smells in mayonnaise should be vinegar and egg . There should n't be any yeast , and therefore any yeast smell , so that is a bit concerning . I am not sure what might imitate a yeast smell . I do n't know how to counter the smell since I am not sure what the origination of the smell is . Does it taste okay ? Is the texture okay ? I do find that homemade and store brand mayonnaises have pretty different smells in general .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
When you cook it , the mixture would go from firm to melted as the temperature increased above the freezing point . Also , your egg proteins that previously held it together will have already been denatured ( no way to undo this step mechanically ) with the first cooking episode so I 'm not aware of anything that would hold the batter together once it melted unless you added more egg . Also , you would not have the bubbles expected in pancakes without adding more baking soda / powder ( as previously mentioned ) or putting the mixture in a siphon with nitrous . Either way , probably not a very pleasing result unless you put the batter in a siphon , charge it up , freeze it , and make sure it remains frozen until consumed . In that case you would have frozen pancakes not much different than freezing the original subject other these would melt into a mess with the consistency of the batter upon thawing .
The most commonly used method is the Swiss Water Process : A batch of unroasted beans is soaked in hot water . Caffeine is water soluble , so it 's extracted from the beans . However , some of the other substances that give coffee its flavour ( " coffee solids " ) are also water-soluble and are also extracted . The first batch of beans is discarded and the caffeine is filtered out of the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture by a carbon filter . Another batch of unroasted beans is added to the hot water/coffee solids mixture . The water is already saturated with coffee solids , so only the caffeine is extracted from this batch of beans . The now-decaffeinated beans are removed , the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture is filtered again to remove the caffeine and the process can be repeated with another batch of beans or the same batch to remove even more caffeine . There 's no universal definition of " Decaf , " but it generally means beans that have had at least 97 % of the caffeine ( by weight ) removed .
Assuming you are n't very unlucky and happen to download a series of bad recipes I think it 's one of a few things . It 's possible you could be undercooking your goods . Fully cooked baked goods should not taste like flour . It 's also possible that you could be mixing insufficiently . If this were the case though you 'd likely have some cookies that were n't floury . The most likely culprit though is packed flour . If you are using volume measurements ( most likely given the source ) for flour , it 's quite possible to use nearly twice as much flour as the recipe intends simply because your flour is packed down more than the author 's was . I recommend using either a food processor or a sifter to sift your flour adequately before measuring . Do n't undo your sifting by rapping your measuring cup on the counter either ! Simply scoop , scrape to level and dump it in the mixing bowl . See Also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
you know better than I do , it depends on the orange and type of orange . My mom , an executive chef , used to say that you 'd allow 1-2 lb of oranges for 1 drinkable cup of orange juice . I really think , that it 's highly dependent on the type of orange . I know naval and blood oranges are the juiciest compared to other varieties .
You probably wont be able to get that exact result with a pastry bag because the almost perfect square grid they are divided into . I still think a pastry bag will be your best bet . I am not sure were you got that picture but my guess is that the tiramisu was machine made and the marks and peaks are from the tooling that was made for the machine to deliver the mascarpone topping . I would try a good sized round tip on a pastry bag and make my dot and slowly raise up and cut it off by stopping the pressure on the bag and pulling straight up . It has worked for me in the past . My background is not in pastry though so you may also just go to a local bakery or wedding cake designer and ask how they would do it . They will probably tell you .
I have to make both mayonnaise and aioli every day at my job . We sometimes do R&amp;D on off days and we spent quite some time trying to imitate our favorite gourmet mayonnaise . I think that we were successful , here are some tips : Lemon juice comes closer to that crisp tartness that I taste in even cheaper mayonnaise . Try using the juice from lemons , limes , or both and see where that gets you . The store bought brands do n't taste like mustard , but let me emphasize that mustard is vital to getting you closer to that taste . There is a specific " tang " to store bought mayonnaise that does n't come from the acid -- you can get very close to this tang with mustard . I use a good quality dijon when I make mayonnaise and the difference is noticeable . Keep adding dijon in small amounts and observe the change in taste . I end up 2 - 3 tablespoons to my batch . Experiment with fresh garlic and/or garlic and onion powders . Try adding white pepper instead of black pepper and see where that gets you . I add a little water at the end . I find that it tones down some of the intensity of the acid and dijon . Also , you do n't have to add your acid in the beginning . In fact , I almost always add mine after the initial " setting " of the emulsification . It is easier to control the thickness and flavor of my mayo ; I use my acid for my first thinning and then add oil to adjust from there .
There are no similarities between the process of making caramel and making cookies . Pure <URL> has one ingredient , sugar . This sugar is cooked on the stove and brought to a high temperature until it changes color . The process of caramelization consists of heating sugar slowly to around 340 ° F ( 170 ° C ) . As the sugar heats , the molecules break down and re-form into compounds with a characteristic color and flavor . There are two products you may be talking about instead that are called caramel - <URL> and caramels , or <URL> , a wrapped candy product . Both of these are made in a similar fashion - heat sugar and other ingredients on the stove to a specific temperature point . These added ingredients include corn syrup , cream/half &amp; half/milk , and butter . While these ingredients share similarities to some degree with cookies , cookies rarely ever include liquids like milk as you need to keep the dough thick so that it does n't spread , and will always include some sort of flour and ( usually ) eggs , which are not a standard ingredients in caramel recipes ( and probably never ingredients ) . The process for cooking is similar to pure caramel , they are cooked in a saucepan on the stove until they reach a specific temperature , something around 250F . At this temperature , the chocolate chips would be completely melted . You can certainly make <URL> , if that is what you wish , but you could not convert a recipe for chocolate chip cookies to a caramel recipe . Adding more sugar to the cookies would make them spread quite a bit more ( remember that sugar is considered a liquid in baking cookies ) and eventually you 'd get something like a <URL> , which is probably the closest you 'd ever get to caramel in a cookie recipe . Lace cookies contain flour but significantly less flour than sugar . As an example , this recipe for <URL> has only 3 tbsp of flour ( and 2-1/4 c oats ) but has a whopping 2-1/4 cup of sugar along with two sticks of butter . The method is also similar to caramel , in that it 's a boiled batter that is heated in a pot on the stove and then baked . This is probably the closest crossover you 're going to get between the two . And , as a bonus , if you want chocolate , lace cookies are often dipped in or drizzled with chocolate . <URL> from Food Network : <URL>
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
There are many myths surrounding yogurt making : UHT milk is bad . This is simply not true . I have made yogurt with whole fat UHT milk for years and it comes out nice and thick . In fact for the past several months I have been using a high quality whole milk powder that makes a lovely , thick yogurt . Store bought yogurt will always be thicker because of additives . Also not true . My yogurt is as thick as a high fat sour cream and contains no added milk powder , gelatine , etc. . You need many hours of ' fermentation ' to make yogurt . Again I do n't agree . My yogurt sets in 3-4 hours , after which it goes in the fridge to cool and finish the culturing process . The milk must be exactly x temperature when you add the starter . This is only somewhat true . As long as the milk is at or below 45 ° C it is fine . If you can stand the temperature , so can the bacteria -- ie , if you can hold a finger in it for ~ 10 sec , it 's ok . That said , too low and you 're losing some effects of the protein denature explained below . Everything must be sterilized . This is only somewhat true . Clean everything carefully , of course , but you are adding a starter with billions of cultivated bacteria into an ideal environment for it to grow . It will easily dominate other bacteria that happen to get in -- and they will , since there are bacteria in the air all around us , so even post-sterilization there will be plenty of foreign stuff entering the yogurt . That said , an over-long incubation will give other bacteria a chance to express themselves , so best to avoid that . Do n't move , touch , or cause the yogurt to shake in any way during incubation or it will fail . I used to believe this myself but it 's really not that sensitive . Obviously less agitation is better , but it will not fail even with fairly substantial movement during the incubation . Drinking yogurt is shaken quite violently during incubation in order to keep it liquid and even then it 's still quite viscous . The keys to making good thick yogurt are : Protein . The milk becomes solid because of a protein in the milk , and for that to happen , the protein must first be heated to above 70 ° C. I heat it to 75-80 ° C for just a few minutes and it still turns out very thick . A milk with high quality protein will make a great yogurt . Incubation temperature . If you want to make good yogurt in 3-4 hours ( beyond which it will not get thicker , only more sour ) , it must be incubated at a steady 40-45 ° C . A lower temperature will also produce yogurt , but you are in a race with other bacteria , so the quicker it 's done the better . Buy a 75-cent indoor thermometer and start looking for ways to create the right temperature environment . Time between generations . Try to bake a new batch every 4-5 days . After a week in the fridge the bacteria are starting to suffer and will not be as strong and active when introduced into the next batch . A short generation cycle will let you go on making yogurt with the same culture for dozens of generations . Sugar quantity . This is my own personal guess based on bread making , etc. . A little sugar will boost the bacteria , but too much will slow it down . I use 2 tbsp per litre of milk and it works very well . Tart with a hint of sweet . Up to double this amount should be fine but more could affect it . Like I say I 'm guessing here but it seems to make sense . Two final notes . The " water " that separates out of the yogurt is whey protein -- generally seen as a very healthy thing to eat . A firm yogurt will let you pour it or spoon it off if you do n't like it , but there 's no reason not to just scoop it out with the rest or stir it back in . Fat content is important , but the milk protein is what will make or break the yogurt . I have made a very thick yogurt with skim milk powder or skim milk with added skim milk powder . Soy milk , which has quite a bit less fat than whole milk , makes a very solid yogurt . It 's all about solids . Of course a > 3 . x % whole fat milk will produce a tastier yogurt , because milk fat is oh so tasty ! Further reading from an industry source : <URL> Additional tips : <URL>
You might try reducing the cooking heat a little , say on medium heat . That way , the middle will finish cooking without the outside being overcooked . And usually when you flip a pancake it should be almost entirely cooked through anyway . You want to flip when the bubbles are pretty set on the top .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
Straight after it comes out of the pan it will usually be too hot to eat . Regardless of resting or not , you ca n't fully taste things which are too hot , they need to come down to a comfortable temperature before you eat them . Some things you can do to stop the meat being too cold when you serve it : You can rest the meat wrapped in foil , this will stop it from getting too cool too quickly if you are not ready to serve once its had the time to rest . you can rest it and then warm it again before you eat it , either under a hot grill for a little , or in an oven . serve it with a hot sauce which will warm the meat serve it on a warmed plate which will stop it cooling more too quickly on the table Although I think you are worrying too much about nothing IMHO . Even once rested the meat will still be at a good temperature , especially as you have not cut it yet and most of the heat will be retained in the middle of the meat .
Refrigerate it and the fat will get on top of the water .
<URL> . The beans themselves have a much subtler flavor , a bit closer to tea really . Try tasting a light roast coffee compared to a medium roast or dark roast at your local coffee house . The differences are readily apparent . The coffee you describe was most likely a dark roast which generally has a quite smoky and even burnt character .
You can add quite a lot of tomato paste/puree but this will mask the fresh flavour of your tomatoes . I think I 'd just reduce the soup down once it was made or add carrots . Carrot flavour really complements tomato soup and many tomato soups recipes require carrots . The starch will then help you thicken the soup .
In the world of high-end chocolate , Valrhona is n't even the most expensive - in fact , it 's practically entry level . Amedei Signature retails at a whopping $ 40/lb in " bulk " ( 1 kg ) quantities . I do n't think I 've ever seen Valhrona in bulk quantities and/or at a significantly discounted price . On the other hand , there are similar-quality brands that are way more affordably-priced . On <URL> you can buy 22 lbs of Callebaut callets for just over $ 6 per pound . Or you can get one of Felchlin 's Grand Cru chocolates for about $ 10 per pound . You can even buy Guittard there for what appears to be $ 6.60 / lb . But you 'll notice that they even though they also carry Valrhona , they do n't have it in bulk . I also see <URL> selling the Guittard wafers for , apparently , $ 3.10 / lb if you buy the 25 lb bag . <URL> sells the Felchlin Maracaibo chocolate ( not Grand Cru ) for a measly $ 7.80 / lb . They 've got a variety of other well-known brands as well , although their selection is limited , they do n't have a lot of the crazy high-end stuff . Chocovic chocolate also sells at around the $ 10 range at most stores . If you can find it , they distribute 10 kg and 25 kg bags ( that 's 22 lbs and 55 lbs ) . I 'm not sure where , but if you go to their official site they explicitly mention that they make that size . You should consider that the exorbitant prices may not be a result of where you 're buying from , but of what you 're buying . Valrhona is just expensive . You may say that is because it 's better than all the others , and you may be right ( although some would disagree - it 's more than a little subjective ) - but that is the price you pay for " premium " products . They can get away with charging $ 13 - $ 15/lb , so they do . Do yourself a favour - try some of the lesser-known brands . A lot of them really do make fantastic chocolate , they 're just not as famous as Valrhona .
end question
start question
How can this " Bloody Brain " cocktail be made without alcohol ?
Most of the things in this are very easy to substitute . Roses lime juice is sweet and non-alcoholic ( and can be found in most supermarkets ) . You can easily sub in heavy cream for Baileys : they do n't taste the same , but chemically they react about the same . Grenadine is just a pomegranate juice simple syrup . No alcohol there at all . The only question is what you want to sub for the strawberry vodka . Some kind of soda , most likely . It 's a question of taste . It wo n't be easy to get something that is both fruity and clear , but you might try white cranberry juice , or white grape juice .
Up to 7 days ( homemade mayo as well ) . Egg whites/yolks out of the egg ( but not combined with the acid ) can last 3-4 days refrigerated , and eggs in-shell are good for 2-4 weeks depending on processing .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
Beer bottles should be stored upright . This is to minimize contact ( and hence oxidization ) between the beer and bottle cap , and ( for unfiltered beers ) to keep any sludge on the bottom of the bottles . ( <URL> ) Wine should be stored ( mostly ) on its side . This keeps the cork moist ; and a dry cork can shrink and allow too much air into the wine bottle . ( <URL> ) But note that : Champagne and other sparkling wines tend to age better if they are kept upright . The rules for liquor are n't as defined , but it should generally be stored upright . ( <URL> ) . It 's stored that way at the factory , and it 's shipped and displayed that way . Also for many " fancy " bottle types , the bottle wo n't even sit properly on its side . Also , alcohol in liquor can leak through - or even break down - whatever material is used for the cap . But it 's generally safe to store liquor bottles horizontally in the freezer for a time . It depends a lot on the specific bottle and cap in use .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
The USDA recommends storing hard boiled eggs , whether peeled or not , for 1 week . I personally have kept &amp; eaten them after 2-3 weeks . I have also cracked one open that was no longer edible &amp; believe me - You will know when that happens ! The egg will will smell rotten &amp; you will have no question as to whether or not to eat it ! Some additional Info on storing eggs : Eggs should be stored in a refrigerator at about 40 degrees F , mainly to reduce the chances that any bacteria on the shell will multiply and cause a risk of illness . Buy refrigerated eggs and store them in the refrigerator as soon as your get home . However , even under refrigeration , eggs slowly lose carbon dioxide , which enlarges the size of the air cell and causes the yolk to flatten and the white to spread . Fresh Egg - Refrigerated raw shell eggs will keep without significant quality loss for about 4 - 5 weeks beyond the " sell by " date or about 3 weeks after you bring them home . Fresh egg whites - 2 to 4 days Fresh egg yolks ( unbroken and covered with water ) - 2 to 4 days Deviled eggs - 2 to 3 days Leftover egg dishes - 3 to 4 days
Yes , you can squeeze walnuts , pecans , almonds together and get something going . I wo n't mention peanuts because they 're not tree nuts ( and they 've lost my respect in other ways ) . Read this answer tongue-in-cheek given the gravity of the question . Obviously pistachios are the easiest to open and filberts/hazelnuts the tougher nuts to crack . Pine nuts are somewhat easy , but who wants to carry a barrel of pine cones just to get a few nuts ? I 've never seen a macadamia or brazil nuts in a shell and been told Cashews are n't edible unroasted . You can also get creative using tools other than a nutcracker or your hands . I used to use the door and jamb ( hinge side ) in college since we had indestructible doors . Even keys and car keys are useful to wedge open walnuts . Some birds ( crows/ravens ) throw the nuts on the road and wait for a car ( hat-tip to them clever birds ) . Pretty sure one of my friends uses his iPhone 5 as a hammer ( it works , but do n't do it ) . Finally , if you 're concerned about oxidization on shelled nuts , I understand . As a delicious option , try placing shelled walnuts or almonds in cold water in the fridge overnight and rinse in the morning . The skins slide off and most of the bitter washes away leaving pure yumminess behind .
There are a variety of frozen desserts which are all related . The main difference between ice cream and frozen custard is the amount of eggs used to thicken the base mix . Philadelphia style ice cream is made from a base mix of milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings . French ( or simply plain ) ice cream is made from a base mix which is essentially a very thin custard or creme anglaise : milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings thickened with egg yolks or whole egg . The base mix is cooked to thicken , and then chilled prior to churning . Frozen custard is very similar to French style ice cream , but with a greater ratio of eggs or egg yolks to dairy or liquid in the mix . With this information , you can adapt nearly any custard recipe to be freezable as ice cream or frozen custard . My survey of frozen custard recipes indicates a ratio of eggs to dairy of about 5 egg yolks to three cups ( 700 mL ) dairy , or 6 whole eggs to 4 cups ( 1 L ) of dairy . To adapt any custard recipe for freezing , then : Adjust the ratio of egg yolks to dairy to no more than about 5 yolks per 3 cups dairy . You may also want to adjust the total yield to be based on no more than 3 cups dairy depending on the capacity of your ice cream maker . Many home ice cream makers have a 1 quart ( close to 1 L ) capacity , but you need to leave room for the air which will be incorporated as the mix is churned . I recommend not using whole eggs for frozen custards , as the yolks facilitate a better texture , and create the rich eggy custard flavor . Frozen desserts are served colder than custards normally are , so the flavors will be more muted . You may need to compensate by increasing the ratio of flavoring ingredients . This will be hard to judge until you have made the frozen custard/ice cream at least once . Cook the custard until it thickens on the stove top , per the normal custard method . Chill it rapidly for safety , and then hold it for at least 4 hours ( overnight is even better ) . While I can not explain the science , empirically , allowing the mix to mature lets the flavors meld and produces a better frozen dessert . Churn it into a frozen dessert according to the instructions of your particular ice cream maker . Note that you can even convert a custard recipe into a Philadelphia style ice cream by eliminating the eggs completely , and simply creating a dairy/sugar/flavoring mix . These still benefit from overnight maturation before churning .
Classic puff pastry absolutely needs a final resting and cooling time in the fridge before you use it for your croissants , palmiers , danishes ... Most recipes give a minimum rest of 30-60 minutes after the last " fold " , but overnight in the fridge is absolutely fine . I 'm not sure whether storing it for two days might have negative side effects , but up to one day is no problem at all .
The reason dry yeast is so popular is that it is easier to store , and is less persnickety about it than fresh yeast . Treat dry yeast right and it can last for a couple of years or more . Fresh yeast is highly perishable , and it should be frozen if you 're not going to use it within a couple of days . If you 're lucky , you can get significantly more time from fresh yeast by freezing it within just a day or two of getting it home . The thing is , yeast is a living thing and you just ca n't know what experiences it has had before arriving in your kitchen . As such , it 's impossible to predict just how much extra ( past the expiration date ) time you are going to get from freezing it . A month ? Probably . Two months ? I would n't count on it , but maybe . 6 months ? Highly unlikely , but stranger things have happened . If you do freeze fresh yeast , wrap it very well . Moisture and air are your enemies . Do put it in the refrigerator at least 12 hours prior to use , then let it spend the last hour on the counter . As a last step before putting together your dough , proof it . Proof the yeast by mixing it with the warm ( 100Fish ) water called for in the recipe and , if applicable , the sugar . If there is no sugar in the recipe , give it a 1/2 tsp of flour ( per loaf ) . Within 5-10 minutes it should be quite bubbly and growing . If it does n't look like it 's doing much , throw it away . You might as well throw away all of the yeast you have from that batch . Go to the store and get more yeast before proceeding with the recipe . Properly stored , yeast usually dies at least somewhat gradually . You may see a slight progressive decrease in the vigor of your yeast as it gets older . Personally , once I see that I 'll use it that time , but I 'll get more for next time . Anymore , fresh yeast is hardly seen except in professional bakeries . It 's easy to see why . If you 're going to make multiple loaves in a week , then maybe fresh yeast is worth it . Now that I have found 2 pound packages of Fleischmann 's instant dry yeast ( expiration almost 2 years out ) at Sam 's Club for $ 6 , I think my days of messing with fresh yeast are over . ( BTW 2lbs of dry yeast = about 130 loaves ) EDIT : Interestingly , Red Star disagrees and does n't recommend freezing fresh yeast . This goes against my experience and the cynic in me wonders of their recommendation has more to do with selling yeast than anything else .
Remember that the whole reason we cure bacon is to make it shelf stable over time , a process developed before refrigeration was as it is today . Now we do it more for taste , but the salt and curing process make bacon pretty shelf stable . If you are cooking the bacon as well , before you put it in the salt , I do n't see any reason not to leave the bacon salt on the counter . I 'd try leaving it on the shelf until you noticed any issues . But I 'm willing to live a little more dangerously than some others . :)
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
Think about this question another way : You are making vanilla infused liquor , you just happen to be cooking with it . And Yes , you can infuse any liquor If you want to use a substitute for Wodka brand Vodka ( i.e. use cheaper , off-brand vodka like Kamachatka ) , I would say that yes , you can substitute out one vodka for another with the caveat that you will want to consider the purity of the distillation you are using as it may impact the flavor of your extract . Substituting top-shelf vodka for " well " vodka may result in an inferior extraction . If you are asking whether you can use some other grain alcohol other than vodka , itself , the answer is that yes , you can . You can even use brown liquors and so on ; bear in mind they will all extract the oils but will carry the flavors differently ( vanilla infused bourbon does n't sound half bad ) . In particular , I would recommend going with a neutral grain spirit like <URL> ; I have used it in making lemoncello , orangecello , and homemade Kahlua and it is pretty effective in extracting flavor while having none of its own .
Do n't know what the flavor profile of the shredded beef , but a nice flavorful hummus ( Sabra is my favorite brand ) is one of my favorite alternates to mayonnaise in beef sandwiches . Sounds unusual , but it 's a great textural and flavor compliment .
The majority of the alcohol evaporates during baking . McGee 's On Food and Cooking says ( pg 532 ) : In making beer and wine , the carbon dioxide escapes from the fermenting liquid , and alcohol accumulates . In making bread both carbon dioxide and alcohol are trapped by the dough , and both are expelled from the dough by the heat of baking . I also found <URL> , which states that some alcohol ( 0.04 to 1.9 % ) may remain . However , the report is from 1926 , so 1 . it may not be really representing modern day situation 2 . the data , methodology etc. is not reported : it looks more like an informal news than a real research article , so I can not critique on whether the results are realistic .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
That will be absolutely fine , whether you make the sauce in the classic way by cooking the yolks with the lemon juice , or with one of the variations where the lemon juice is added only at the end . I would , of course , defrost it first , rather than add a whole ice cube of lemon juice to the pan .
Most of the things in this are very easy to substitute . Roses lime juice is sweet and non-alcoholic ( and can be found in most supermarkets ) . You can easily sub in heavy cream for Baileys : they do n't taste the same , but chemically they react about the same . Grenadine is just a pomegranate juice simple syrup . No alcohol there at all . The only question is what you want to sub for the strawberry vodka . Some kind of soda , most likely . It 's a question of taste . It wo n't be easy to get something that is both fruity and clear , but you might try white cranberry juice , or white grape juice .
To decrease the bitterness , bring out the sweetness in the carrots by cooking for longer . The best technique I 've found to do this with carrots is frying and steaming them at a low temperature . Make glazed carrots : per 200g of carrot , peel , cut into ~ 2cm thick diagonal cuts and add 40g butter , a half teaspoon of sugar and season with salt and black pepper . In a large lidded pan over a low heat , spread the carrots out in a single layer , add the lid and cook for 25-35 minutes . Shake the pan occasionally . Push the cooking time as long as you can without letting the carrots become overly soft . This should give deliciously sweet fragrant carrot . Another thing to keep in mind is that salt is better than sugar to reduce bitterness so add as much as you can without oversalting the carrots .
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
end question
start question
Bread recipe calls for dry milk powder . Can I use dry buttermilk powder ?
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
There are several options : wrap jerky in paper napkins/towels before putting in the baggie put jerky in a paper bag and then in a plastic one put some uncooked rice , as Optionparty has mentioned The method you choose also depends on how long it takes the mail to be delivered . Rice is the most long-lasting way , but it will also add the most weight to the package . Paper bags and towels are equally effective , but they wo n't do for longer than a few days . Whichever you do , make sure the baggie is well closed to prevent any moisture from outside getting in .
I 've used yeast that was even older than yours and although the taste of the resulting bread was fine , and it foamed up properly when tested , I found I had to use about 50 % more of it to get the same density of the bread . In the end , I threw it out because it was too much trouble to experiment with it every time .
Okay , I usually do n't answer my own questions but by the time I got done writing up my question the answer came to me : On day 1 take your one portion of starter and divide it in half . The other half can either be shared with a friend or thrown away . ( I promise I wo n't tell ! ) On day 5 , instead of adding 1 cup of milk/flour/sugar just add 1/2 a cup of each . On day 10 , instead of adding 1 cup of milk/flour/sugar just add 1/2 a cup of each . Do n't forget to mush/mix the bag each day . Now on day 10 you 'll have two regular sized portions of starter . You could use it to make two loaves of bread . Or you could use one portion to make one loaf , take the other portion and start again with step 1 above .
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
Korean chilli is a little different as it has a slight smoky flavour , in addition to being slightly sweet and also quite hot . The actual name of the chilli use in kimchi and for that matter , most Korean dishes is gochugaru ( 고추가루 ) . It comes in a variety of preparations , typically , finely ground , flakes and a paste . You should be able to find this in most good supermarkets or an Asian store . If you ca n't get this , you can still use a good quality chilli powder or possibly , a paste .
I was not familiar with advice to pat meat dry , so I asked a chef what was going on . The answer was ... complicated . First , if you 're working with meats that were frozen , you 're going to want to remove any moisture which comes from the freezer ( frozen humidity , which is essentially water ) . For un-marinated meats , you want to be careful how you pat them . The important distinction , in all cases , is not to remove any natural fluids ( blood ) from the meat . This would remove both moisture and flavor , resulting in bland , dry cuts of meat . So , do not press the meat when patting ; this will squeeze moisture out . You should lightly touch/brush the surface , so excess moisture wicks away . That 's it . For marinated meats , it can depend a bit on the marinade , and how much your supposed to keep for flavor . Otherwise , stick with the " remove excess moisture , but nothing else " idea . So , long story short , if paper towels are sticking to the meat , you 're removing too much moisture . Maybe try this the other way around : set a paper towel on your work surface , hold the meat in some tongs , and touch the meat to the towel as you 're putting them on to fry . As to how professional , large scale kitchens do it ; they do n't . They 'll take a large sheet pan , place a drip rack in the pan , and place the steaks on the rack . This allows excess juices to flow off naturally , and everything is easily washable and reusable . If the meat is not cooked quickly after set to dry , you can baste drippings , marinade , or oil onto them just before cooking .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
My wife makes ( made up ? ) a super-quick tasty dish : Sautee spinach , mushrooms &amp; garlic ( 2 cloves if you like it garlicky ) layer polenta on the bottom of a baking dish Add spinach/mushroom/garlic mix Add black beans ( 1 can ) Mix in a little salsa Cover with cheese Bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes until the cheese is melted .
Baking them for that long will evaporate a lot of water . This is a good thing . If they were in enough liquid to not dry out at all then they would n't brown and you would miss out on a lot of delicious flavor . That would be braising . These may have been dryer than potatoes in the past if the potatoes were cut into smaller pieces ( more surface area ) or if the cook time was longer . If you want your veggies to be more moist then you can cook them for a shorter length of time or toss them with some fat which will give the illusion of moisture as well as prevent some internal moisture from escaping .
Your ribs will have a lot less flavor if you do not use a dry rub . However you can minimize some of the time ( and only a bit of the flavor ) by putting on the rub , wrapping in foil , and immediately putting them in the oven or on the grill . The process of putting your rub together probably takes only about 5 minutes - it 's the fridge time that takes a while . Sitting in the fridge allows some of the flavors to permeate , and if you used a more permeable material could allow your ribs to air out a bit . These are good things , but for my rib recipe I do n't put the ribs in the fridge and they still taste great . I also do n't put the barbecue sauce on until about the last 20 minutes of oven time , when the foil comes off and the sauce goes on . Until then the ribs stay in the foil . I looked up North Carolina ( which uses a sauce that is n't tomato based in the eastern part of the state ) , South Carolina ( a mustard sauce ) , Texas , Memphis ( which uses no sauce ) , Kansas City ( tomato based-sauce that is rather sweet ) - all of them used a dry rub even with wide variations on the sauce and for both beef and pork ribs .
From experience I 'd say those 6 months do n't stack . You could have 6 months in the jar , or 6 months in the freezer - very soon after defrosting the flavour would die out . If you have to freeze I would recommend using it straight from the freezer , if you can avoid it clumping . The overall potency is degrading from the moment it 's picked ! But realistically from the moment of grinding , as the oils in the ingredient are slowly seeping and evaporating out of the grain . Why not make smaller batches more regularly ? That 's what I do for garam masala , mixing a new batch every 3 months or so . I would always recommend oven drying spices / peppers very low for a long time - say 2 - 3 hours at 100C ( 212F ) . Wet ingredients could be dried in the same way , else added at the time you are going to cook with them .
You can save yourself the waste of making double , while preventing cross-contamination , by using one hand ( clean ) to scoop and sprinkle , and one hand ( dirty ) to direct the spice falling , pat/tamp , and rub the spices . Typically I begin by applying a " glue " ( previously I have used honey and mustard , once I was vegan I went with just mustard ; both worked well on smoker ) to the cut of meat or vegetable before smoking or bbq . I follow applying the glue by washing my hands , then proceed with whatever rub I am using after the glue has had a chance to adhere ( typically thirty minutes medium , but I have followed instructions to let set and congeal for up to eight hours ) . Then , you can apply the rub following the method above : keep one hand clean to pick up handfuls of rub and sprinkle the rub down , use the other hand to press that rub you are sprinkling down against the cut . This sequence minimizes the number of steps , the times where you need to wash your hands , and makes for great bark . Hopefully you can rotate the cut with one hand , if not it adds one hand-wash . I started doing it this way because I hated having the spice turn into clumps from the moisture . Now I not only have no clumps in the spice after , and sanitary spices for further usage , but also a clean left hand for turning on the sink to wash my right hand .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
When both are used , the fresh yeast is for " added flavor " , the dry for leavening power . Another author who does this is Nancy Silverton . - Some bakers believe that fresh yeast ( a.k.a. cake yeast or wet yeast ) gives a more yeasty flavor to the final product . I do n't think it does . It 's also more perishable , ( sometimes ) more expensive , more difficult to find ( and when you do , it may be near its expiration ) , more challenging to use , and less reliable ( re : reproducible outcome ) . When I encounter a recipe that calls for it , I convert to instant yeast using this old , but reliable chart : <URL> If you <URL> , you 'll find more information ( that may or may not be reliable ) .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
To my knowledge wasabi paste is just wasabi powder that has had the water added to it by the factory . So if you are looking at paste vs powder I would go powder . The question to me would be to make it a paste before you add it to your ice cream base or to add the powder directly to the ice cream base . I would venture to say you should be just fine adding the powder directly to the ice cream base . Now , for the ugly truth . Pretty much all you wasabi powder sold in the US or Japan for that mater is n't really wasabi ( or contains very little wasabi ) . It is horseradish , that is colored green and has some sort of mustard or turmeric added . And really not what I would want to try in an ice cream . Plus the flavor of the pastes are not like fresh ( even with horseradish ) . If I were doing an ice cream , I would want to stay away from the powder all together . I would visit my local specialty food market or online specialty market and see if I could source real wasabi . But cost might be prohibitive for you as it is very expensive . Next the good news is , there are some powders out there that are actually dried ground wasabi powder such as <URL> . It was most likely something like this that your friend used if she did use a powder . Anyway , I hope this is helpful to you . And good luck .
Yes , you can definitely use UHT milk in bread . UHT is not usable for some applications , because its proteins have been changed by the heat . But in bread , you do n't need the proteins from the milk . Bread recipes include milk to make the dough richer , so it is mostly the fat content that matters . Using UHT wo n't change anything in the dough structure . I even think that the usual unpleasant taste wo n't be noticeable , but I am not so sure about that . Still , it gets diluted a lot in dough , so if you can drink UHT as-is , you should n't have a problem with the bread taste .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
end question
start question
Why must potato salad be placed in the refrigerator before serving ?
Refrigerating accomplishes several things : It is the right temperature to get the intended flavor . Flavors change with temperature , and some dishes get the correct taste when cold . Flavors get to blend more . Aromatic spices sometimes take time to soak into the sauce , and liquids absorb into the potatoes more Cold is an easy way to prevent spoilage . Potato salad usually contains mayonnaise , which is a natural growth medium for bacteria . By cooling the salad you can leave it out to serve for a couple hours without risking illness . Food safety of Potato Salad : For potato salad , you have about 2 hours of safe eating in the 40-140F temperature range . Refrigerating is an easy way to extend this , by cooling below 40F . For hot salads , you can either reheat before serving , or keep it hotter than 140F by using a chafing dish and can of Sterno . About Mayonnaise in Potato Salad : Commercial mayonnaise is too acidic to spoil easily , but when mixed in with potato salad it can be diluted enough to spoil . It is better to refrigerate than take the risk , right ? If you use homemade mayonnaise , you run the risk of salmonella on top of this .
By your definition , I would cook them all at one time . From there you have a couple options . Leave them in the shell and peel when needed . This keeps out a lot of the air which extends the shelf life to 2 weeks , but can dry them out a little making the texture a little harder . Immediately peel and dry them as best as possible . Put them in a Zip Lock along with a dry paper towel on the bottom to catch any extra water and condensation . Remove as much air as possible . The texture is much better , but your shelf life if approx . 1 week and is a little smellier . ( also can put zip lock into a covered container ) Lol . Food stores now sell eggs this way . Either way you may want to let them sit on the counter long enough to take the chill off , so it 's not as hard . For me it does n't matter , I can eat them any old way . LOVE EM !
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
One day on the counter at room temperature is approximately equivalent to a week in the refrigerator . When I used eggs at a rapid rate , baking every day , I always kept them on the counter , since they would not have to be brought to room temperature to beat easily to the ribbon or whatever . They should be good in the refrigerator for several weeks past their sell by date , or on the counter for several days . 6 hours is fine . ( All of the above is assuming they are in their shells , uncracked ... ) Out of the shell , eggs are highly perishable -- what the health codes call a " potentially hazardous " food . Do n't hold them for any length of time at room temperature . I would say no more than 30 minutes to an hour , less if you can . <URL> , but they do insist that the eggs are refrigerated .
Refrigerating accomplishes several things : It is the right temperature to get the intended flavor . Flavors change with temperature , and some dishes get the correct taste when cold . Flavors get to blend more . Aromatic spices sometimes take time to soak into the sauce , and liquids absorb into the potatoes more Cold is an easy way to prevent spoilage . Potato salad usually contains mayonnaise , which is a natural growth medium for bacteria . By cooling the salad you can leave it out to serve for a couple hours without risking illness . Food safety of Potato Salad : For potato salad , you have about 2 hours of safe eating in the 40-140F temperature range . Refrigerating is an easy way to extend this , by cooling below 40F . For hot salads , you can either reheat before serving , or keep it hotter than 140F by using a chafing dish and can of Sterno . About Mayonnaise in Potato Salad : Commercial mayonnaise is too acidic to spoil easily , but when mixed in with potato salad it can be diluted enough to spoil . It is better to refrigerate than take the risk , right ? If you use homemade mayonnaise , you run the risk of salmonella on top of this .
Sadly , baked potatoes are one of those foods that are only truly at their peak when first baked . Either re-baking them or microwaving them will give the least bad results for reheating . Your better bet , however , is to give them a new life , for example as potato pancakes , hash browns , as an ingredient in a hash , or similar application . While they wo n't have the same quality as a fresh baked potato , these can be very good dishes .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
Optimal yeast growth happens at around 37 degrees Celsius ( 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit ) , but dough will rise at any room temperature . As the temp rises , the yeast becomes more active , which is why you 'll sometimes see recipes call over overnight rests in the fridge , where activity slows or stops . Yeast dies at anything above 50 C ( 122 F ) . The important thing is knowing the temperature and , if you 're really particular , the humidity in the air around your proof . This information is used for the sake of timing consistency , more than anything else .
While ideally Parmesan may be stored ( at home ) in refrigerated environment , there is no harm done to it ( assuming nothing else like condensation occurs ) by allowing it to sit at a warmer temperature for a few days . It is , after all , aged at ambient temperature for 2 years . At least where I live , stores do not even put Parmesan in a refrigerated case ; it is sold from tables at room temperature would would be slightly higher than what you measured in the shipping box . I think your 18 C cheese should be just fine . See also : <URL>
According to <URL> , the melting point of piperine - the compound responsible for the pungency of black pepper - is 130 degrees celsius , so it 's definitely not a given that anything you 'll be cooking will heat all of the piperine above 130 degrees celsius - at which point you 'd begin to get significantly faster decomposition ( and lose the peppery flavor ) . Now , the maillard reaction does n't occur until around 155 celsius , so for cooking steak it 's pretty much a given that the outside of the steak ( including all of the pepper on the surface ) will get hot enough to melt and begin to decompose , so it 's certainly possible that you 'd lose much of the pepper flavor from the actual peppercorns . So the two questions are , how much is actually lost ? and where does it all go ? Most recipes that call for crusting cooked meat with black pepper call for a coarse grind . One good reason for this is that by minimizing surface area , you are not allowing the piperine to heat up and decompose as quickly , so depending on how coarse your pepper is , and how hot you sear your steaks , you may have a not-insignificant amount of piperine left in your pepper . I have n't found a good source for how fast piperine breaks down at various temperatures so you 'd have to test this a bit to see how much of the flavor you could expect to lose . Probably more important is the " where does it all go ? " part of this question . For this you have to consider that even though the ultimate tempurature of the pepper is far above its melting point , during cooking it has heated up slowly , not instantly , leaving a good portion of time where the piperine was melting but before it was hot enough to decompose very quickly . During this phase , piperine can escape from the peppercorn , while still intact ( not decomposed ) and migrate through the steak ( or other dish ) . While cooking a steak , piperine should migrate far enough into the steak that it does not ultimately reach a temperature where it decomposes . This will cause that portion of the steak to be flavored with piperine . So , the benefit of heating the pepper is specifically so that it will melt and migrate into the dish ( i.e. meld with the foods ) , something that you do n't get by sprinkling it on the top afterwards .
The potato is probably not as important as the method . Simply frying them will not get you the fry you want . Basically you boil them , then double fry them . Here are the steps for <URL> : Ingredients 2 pounds russet potatoes ( about 4 large ) , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch by 1/4-inch fries ( keep potatoes stored in a bowl of water ) 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar Kosher salt 2 quarts peanut oil Procedure Place potatoes and vinegar in saucepan and add 2 quarts of water and 2 tablespoons of salt . Bring to a boil over high heat . Boil for 10 minutes . Potatoes should be fully tender , but not falling apart . Drain and spread on paper towel-lined rimmed baking sheet . Allow to dry for five minutes . Meanwhile , heat oil in 5-quart Dutch oven or large wok over high heat to 400 ° F. Add 1/3 of fries to oil ( oil temperature should drop to around 360 ° F ) . Cook for 50 seconds , agitating occasionally with wire mesh spider , then remove to second paper-towel lined rimmed baking sheet . Repeat with remaining potatoes ( working in two more batches ) , allowing oil to return to 400 ° F after each addition . Allow potatoes to cool to room temperature , about 30 minutes . Continue with step 3 , or for best results , freeze potatoes at least over night , or up to 2 months . Return oil to 400 ° F over high heat . Fry half of potatoes until crisp and light golden brown , about 3 1/2 minutes , adjusting heat to maintain at around 360 ° F. Drain in a bowl lined with paper towels and season immediately with kosher salt . Cooked fries can be kept hot and crisp on a wire rack set on a sheet tray in a 200 ° F oven while second batch is cooked . Serve immediately . Worth reading is also <URL> .
Salting the water in which you cook starches ( pasta , rice , potato ) is an effective way of enhancing the flavour of the finished product - boiling starches absorb salt well ( which is why adding chunks of potato to an overall salty stew will lessen the apparent saltiness of the dish . But salt does other things . When I am making roasted potatoes , I parboil them for 5 minutes before drying and roasting them in oil . if you divide them into two batches and boil one half in unsalted water and the other half in well salted water ( 1tbsp/2 quarts water ) , the salted potatoes will brown and crisp much better than the unsalted ones . I 'm not sure why this is , but I would encourage you to try it because it 's amazing to see .
There 's an old children 's story about making Stone Soup . In it , a penniless begger offers to teach people how to make his favorite recipe : soup , made from a stone ! He boils some water and drops a stone in , and while it 's " cooking " , keeps mentioning offhand things like " It 'd go great with some carrots " or " Celery would be lovely in this " . The townspeople rush off and get celery , carrots , potatoes , onions , and the like to add to the soup , until eventually , they 've made proper soup in his pot along with the stone . So basically , the whole " stone soup " thing was a clever con game by which the begger can eat for free ( or , in kinder versions than the one I recall , to trick the townspeople into learning a lesson about sharing ) . The stone adds nothing to the soup .
To prevent the vegetable from going ' off ' in the freezer . <URL> : Blanching is the scalding of vegetables in boiling water or steam . Blanching slows or stops the action of enzymes . Up until harvest time , enzymes cause vegetables to grow and mature . If vegetables are not blanched , or blanching is not long enough , the enzymes continue to be active during frozen storage causing off-colours , off-flavours and toughening . Blanching time is crucial and varies with the vegetable and size of the pieces to be frozen . Under-blanching speeds up the activity of enzymes and is worse than no blanching . Over-blanching causes loss of flavour , colour , vitamins and minerals .
You can refrigerate all kinds of yeast-bread dough . Right after kneading , before the dough has had a chance to rise , oil the dough lightly , cover with plastic wrap or use a ziplock , and place in the refrigerator . As the dough cools in the refrigerator the action of the yeast will slow down until the dough has reached refrigeration temperature . At that point the yeast is still working , but at a snail 's pace . So , during the first few hours in the fridge it may require a punch down or two , as there may still be enough warmth in the dough for the yeast to show active signs of life . After the dough is completely cool , it may not need anything from you , but still check it at least every 12 hours or so - it may need another punch down . If at any point it grows to close to double it 's original size , go ahead and punch it down . Most doughs will be fine if babysat like this for up to 3 or 4 days . When you 're ready to bake , punch down the dough again ( if necessary ) , shape , and allow to rise as if it had never taken its little nap in the refrigerator . Of course this rise is going to take longer than non-refrigerated dough as it reaches room temperature , but it should be ready to bake when it looks like a non-refrigerated dough of the same type would look when it 's ready to bake . Bake as usual . I 'm sure there are exceptions to the basic rules I 've set out , but I 've never had a problem doing this with any yeast-bread dough .
it 's possible that the heat only comes from the burner/element at the bottom . Especially if you have a gas oven . Try bufferring the bottom of the bread with a pizza stone . A terracotta clay pot saucer , or practically any unglazed natural stone tile can substitute . Marble or granite are not ok .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
Most of the popular ingredients for BBQ sauce ( vinegar/ketchup/sugar etc. ) tend not to mix very well together . I know whenever I 've made BBQ sauce , placing all of the ingredients into a pan together they tend to separate and are difficult to combine . Heating up the ingredients , however , causes them to combine better , and after a short time cooking they will bind together and give a more consistent texture/taste . Otherwise the different ingredients may continue to separate even when mixed , and you may find clumps of sugar that have not dissolved into the liquid etc. . It 's quite possible your BBQ sauce recipe does n't need cooking , so long as things are substituted ( like sugar for sugar syrup or honey ) in order to combine better , but this may well give an incorrect texture because of the change in ingredients . Therefore if the ingredients you use can be combined without being heated , it 's likely that it does n't need cooking , however you may end up with an uneven flavor . As pointed out in a comment by @ToddWilcox , there may also be constituent ingredients that do require cooking , such as garlic or onion , in order to achieve the correct flavor so that they do not taste raw . Some sauces may also specify being cooked simply to make them thicker or more concentrated , as adding thickening agents such as flour may affect the taste , particularly if it is uncooked . So whilst there are some BBQ sauce recipes that may get away with being uncooked based on their ingredients , there are others that will definitely require cooking .
Most freezers are frost-free , which means that they occasionally cycle above freezing to prevent formation of frost on the walls of the freezer . This makes them easier to maintain but it shortens the storage longevity of the food . This makes products stored in them vulnerable to freezer burn , which is a loss of moisture . It can also cause ice and IQF products like frozen fruits or vegetables to solidify into a single mass . If you have ice cube trays , you may even notice them becoming empty after a few months of sitting unused . Freezer burn is a loss of quality , though , not a health issue . The food is n't spoiling . If you have a " deep freeze " or a non frost-free freezer that you only access occasionally , you can certainly keep foods for nearly indefinite periods of time without worrying as much about freezer burn . You can also reduce the likelihood of freezer burn by following better freezer practices . Resources available <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
Why does brining work with dry heat methods and not wet heat methods ?
Salt dissolves in water . Brining is simply the process of soaking something in a saline solution so that either it absorbs saltwater , or the salinity of the pre-existing water approaches equilibrium with that of the brine . The end state is just a lot of water , some on/inside the meat and some outside , all with approximately the same salinity . If you roast the result , you 're evaporating most of the water but keeping the salt . If you boil it , then you 're just reversing the brining process you followed in the first place , by diluting whatever salt ( not to mention any other minerals/flavour ) it has . The salt in a brined chicken is not reacting with the meat , it 's just dissolved in the water ( which is in/on the meat ) . Give it a good enough " rinse " and the salt water will be gone .
Onions The more you cook an onion , the sweeter it is going to get ; heat breaks down the volatiles and complex starches and converts them to sugars . When an onion is completely brown then it is basically caramelized . The point of sweating onions is to draw out some of the pungency , but not all . If you cook them 'til they 're brown ( caramelized ) then they will be very sweet , and not really retain any of that sulfurous " onion-y " flavour at all . So it 's not really a question of how much you 're developing the flavours , it 's a question of which flavours you 're developing . The more sweetness you develop , the more of the original onion flavour you lose . In my experience , caramelized onions are rarely used as an " ingredient " - they 're more of a garnish or side dish , since they would n't really impart any significant flavour to the main dish . Celery and other aromatics These do n't undergo the same drastic flavour changes that onions do , but the principle is the same : You sweat them to draw out moisture and aromas without starting a Maillard or caramelization reaction . The key is that sweating is a preparation step . Yes , frying/saut éing these for longer would develop more flavour ( or at least more of a certain kind of flavour ) , but you do n't want to do that too early , since they 're going to sit in the pan for a while longer ; sweating means softening them up slightly without eliminating all of the aromas or the natural crunchy texture . You generally do n't brown vegetables during the preparation of a recipe ; you only do that if you plan to eat them by themselves without any further cooking . If you brown them , then continue to cook , you will turn them into mush and possibly burn them , and there 's no way to fix it after that happens .
If you are looking to fry veggies then yes it is nessassary to pre heat . If you put them in a cold pan and oil you start ' sweating ' the veggies not frying them . For example : a sliced onion put into a pan with hot oil will cook and have a nice golden brown color as it caramalizes . Put that same sliced onion in a cold pan with cold oil and then add heat the onion first turns translucent and looses moisture . Both of these cooking methods have their uses , but they are different . How do you know when the oil is ready to cook ? It will start to shimmer a little before it reaches the smokeing point . put the vegies in when you see this shimmer , or at the very fisrt wisp of smoke .
Liquid vanilla extract has alcohol in it , so if you add this extract to hot cocoa , puddings , fudge , or anything you make with heat , the alcohol burns off and so does most of the flavor . If you wait for it to cool off the flavor stays strong . Same thing goes for artificial vanilla also because of the alcohol levels ( but the flavor is just not there to begin with with artificial flavor ) . If you use vanilla beans , open up the pod and scrape the inside of it and put it in the beginning with the hot mix . That is another story . It is very delicious , but you see teeny tiny little beans swimming in your lighter mixes like vanilla bean ice cream .
The main issue you will face is the extra mixing allows for additional gluten development . In some breads , this could create a risk of over-kneading , which could make the dough less workable , more prone to tearing , and more difficult to get the proper rise . Challah is a basic egg enriched bread , so other than the eggs themselves ( which are fairly effective at helping prevent over-kneading ) you do n't have a great deal of protection . The worst case scenario is that your bread will be a little flat and crumbly ; the best case is that you are still well within the tolerance window and it will be just fine . Edit : I will leave this for reference , but I was thinking of brioche : in a very sweet , fatty bread like brioche , this risk is minimized . The fat and sugars in the dough act as barriers preventing the glutin-precursors from interacting as frequently or as easily , making it much , much more difficult to over knead . The main reasons for the traditional order of dough assembly are : As you no doubt realize , it is much easier to incorporate the liquids evenly into loose flour , rather than a partially formed dough The yeast acts on the ingredients present , so sometimes ingredients which inhibit yeast growth are held back until after a fermentation phase You want time for all of the flour to be fully hydrated -- normally , in yeast raised doughs , this is hardly an issue .
There are four methods for thawing frozen foods which are recognized as safe : In a refrigerator In the microwave Under cool running water As part of the cooking process These four methods all meet the criteria that they minimize the amount of time the food spends in the danger zone ( 40-140 F , 4-60 C ) where bacteria can grow . The pros and cons of the following often-recommended methods are also reviewed : Leaving food on the counter overnight Thawing in a bowl ( or sink ) of water On a metal pan or with a " miracle thaw " device In the refrigerator Thawing food in the refrigerator is slow ; it can take a day to thaw several pounds ( a kilogram or two ) , and even more time for larger foods like a whole frozen turkey . The advantage is that the refrigerator is at a safe temperature , and bacterial growth is already inhibited , so there is little risk . This is probably the preferred method for many foods , if you have the time . In the microwave Thawing in the microwave is fast , but it has several disadvantages : It requires a lot of attention , turning or rotating the food to get even coverage from the microwaves ; for items like ground beef , you might even need to scrape off the thawed portions and continue defrosting the frozen portion . It is easy to accidently go to far and start cooking the food , especially if it has an odd shape or small pointier parts sticking out ( like wings on a chicken ) . For this reason , microwave thawing is best done only for foods like soup or stew , where you can stir them and if one part boils a small amount while another part is frozen , no harm is done . Under cool running water This one is most surprising , but it is true : the fastest way to thaw food safely is under cool running water ( at or below 70 F / 21 C ) , like the cold water from your tap . The reason is that that water has an extremely high capacity for carrying heat , and the forced convection from running water ensures that it transfers heat from the food item as rapidly as possible . In the Good Eats episode <URL> , Alton Brown thawed several frozen ice duck sculptures by various methods . The one under cool running water was almost completely melted , even when the one in the oven at 200 F was still fairly recognizably bird shaped . It is important that the water be running , to ensure strong convection . You can do this by setting the food in the sink under a very small stream of water . If the food should not get wet , you can put it in a zip-type bag or similar to keep it dry . Try to remove as much air as possible , to get the best contact between the water and the food ( through the bag ) . This is the best method for forced , rapid thawing ( at least when microwaving is not appropriate or inconvenient ) , but it is probably less convenient that the refrigerator method . You also have to monitor the food , and remove it when it is thawed , or it will come to the ambient temperature of the water , which is probably in the danger zone . As part of the cooking process Some foods can be cooked starting from the frozen state , thawing and then cooking in one operation . Among the ones most suitable for this are are smaller or thinner items , such as : Cookie dough lumps Hamburgers Chicken parts Pizza Stew meat Frozen , chopped vegetables Frozen stock ( at least in smaller quantities ) Bad idea : on the Counter overnight This is a bad idea , especially for meats and other highly perishable items . You have no control over the temperature the surface of the food will reach , and it may begin to spoil at the surface before the center is thawed . Bad idea : In a bowl ( or sink ) of cold water Again , a bad idea . Without the convection , the thawing speed is reduced . There is also no source of newer , cooler water , so the temperature of the water itself will rise . Some parts of the food may reach dangerous temperatures before it is fully thawed . Also , if you do n't check the food frequently , the temperature can get into dangerous territories , facilitating spoilage . Risky : On a cast iron , stainless steel or other metal pan , or a " miracle thaw " device This method is most often used with thin foods like steaks or frozen hamburgers . Physics are with you , as the specific heat capacity and conductivity of the metal are very high ( higher even than water ) . The large surface area of the metal acts like a radiator or heat sink in reverse , conducting heat away from the food more rapidly than air alone would . This method is not approved by health codes for commercial use , and carries some risks . You need to monitor the food closely , and cook it or move it into the refrigerator as soon as it is thawed . Failure to do so will allow the food to spoil , and the conductivity of your metal will become your enemy , more quickly bringing the food to ambient temperature . While this method is not officially sanctioned , you may choose to assess its risks for yourself . See also : <URL> <URL>
As you can see at the Chapter 7 : Storage of horticultural crops of the book <URL> : If you look p. 166 ( p. 173 on the PDF ) , you can see that the onions need to be stored in this conditions : between 0-5 ° C with a relative humidity ( R.H. ) of 65-70 % If you look p. 168 ( p. 175 on the PDF ) , you can see that the potatoes have different needs : Fresh market : between 4-7 ° C Processing : between 8-12 ° C seed potatoes : between 0-2 ° C But must of all , potatoes need very highest relative humidity ( R.H. ) : 95-98 % versus 65-70 % for onions So , if you store them together , either one or the other will be in bad storage conditions . Further , as you can see at <URL> : Dry onions ( Group 3 ) are very sensitive to moisture , which makes their storage incompatible with the high R.H. needed for potatoes . New potatoes ( Group 6 ) may also produce ethylene , which will badly damage green onions ( Group 2 ) if stored together . Anyway , storage of horticultural crops can not just be resumed by " do n't put this or that together " , as you may have seen : it is important to consider R.H. , temperature , and many other factors . If the subject interests you , all this ( and many other things ) is pretty well explained in the following references : <URL> <URL> <URL> Ethylene is also a " critical factor " , and this topic is more developped in the following resources : <URL> <URL>
Is everything graded on the same scale ( with the same labels ) ? No . Grading is specific to every kind of fruit or vegetable , and often grading can be different depending on the form of the produce ( fresh vs. canned vs. frozen vs. juice vs. headed for further processing , etc. ) . Also , different nomenclature is used for different produce : some use " Grade A , " " Grade B , " etc. . Some use " No. 1 , " " No. 2 , " etc. . The number of grades can vary . And some use other nomenclature like " Fancy Grade " or " Commercial Grade , " either by themselves or in combination with the numerical/letter grade system . And is all produce graded , so that for example I can go to the store and find out what grade their supply of a given fruit is ? Grading is voluntary , and it generally costs producers to do it . Unless there is a complaint about quality , many domestic producers wo n't bother , particularly if they are selling at a local market or something . For marketing agreements , they are often required , though . And international shipments are required to be graded , but only small samples from a given shipment are generally inspected . What characteristics do the grades generally depend on , and what characteristics do they ignore ? You really can only tell by reading the individual grading policies for specific produce ( there are guidelines for well over 100 different types/forms of fruits and vegetables ) . The guidelines for <URL> and for <URL> . Also , note that these are only national USDA guidelines . States and regional markets can also set their own grading policies , so a " medium " tomato sold at a state farmers market might be the same as an " X-large " tomato on the USDA grading scale . But in general , grading often covers things like : Size ( sometimes specifying different size grades or minimum size for grading ) Appearance ( color , shape , " mature " enough to ensure proper ripening if not ripe already , proper trimming if applicable , extraneous pieces like stems on small fruit , etc. ) Texture ( firmness , smoothness , general " ripe " characteristics , etc. ) Defects ( blemishes , dirt , decay/spoilage , pest damage/disease , damage from sun/heat or cold , foreign material , etc. ) Allowable tolerances ( allowed deviation levels in above characteristics or percentage of pieces allowed to be non-compliant in various characteristics ) Characteristics generally NOT covered by grading : Flavor/taste Interior of produce ( since grading generally focuses on exterior inspection unless there is suspicion of unseen rot , disease , etc. ) Packaging ( beyond some note of packing that is likely to damage produce )
I see absolutely no reason not to do that . As you say , the very nature of diffusers is that they are n't smooth . Keep in mind that it 's not just extreme heat that you want to avoid , but also extreme changes in temperature . So you want to heat the tagine with the implement that you are using as a diffuser . Also , unglazed earthenware tagines are usually <URL> . Is your tagine glazed ? Apparently that process can also be called " healing " and involve garlic , although the term is from a different culture . <URL>
I 've used yeast that was even older than yours and although the taste of the resulting bread was fine , and it foamed up properly when tested , I found I had to use about 50 % more of it to get the same density of the bread . In the end , I threw it out because it was too much trouble to experiment with it every time .
Foil is the way to go , combined with not too fierce a heat . You want to cook at about 160C until the centre of the pie is piping hot . To lower the chances of burning , portion the pie prior to reheating . That way the centre will get hot more quickly . Reheating more than once is generally not a good idea for safety reasons . You can however portion one night 's pie and keep the other in the fridge .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
Have you heard of the <URL> ? If you drop a bit of water on a very hot pan , the water floats around on its own cushion of steam , thus not touching the pan at all . Similar things happen when you sear meat on a pan . The steam keeps the food from bonding with the pan . In general you should n't cook meat on a medium heat . Generally you want to cook meat either on a screaming hot pan/skillet with a heavy bottom , or low and slow . Rarely in between . I have no science to back this up , but watching a documentary on Francis Mallmann , who cooks over wood fires , claim that when the meat first touches the grill it sticks , but once the Maillard reaction occurs the meat begins to unstick . He says he hates it when people touch the meat and move it around , and that its best to just leave it be until its ready to be flipped . People associate cooking things very hot with burning them . But in reality getting a nice sear requires very high heat , which creates many of the flavor compounds in the food we eat . You 're more likely to burn or overcook something at a lower heat , because you 're cooking out all the moisture slowly then it begins to burn the entire thing very rapidly , rather than browning the outside . Which could also make the food stick to the pan .
Inside the rice cooker , there 's a thermostat monitoring the bowl 's temperature ( and kept in firm contact with the bowl via the spring ) . As long as the temperature does n't go above the boiling point of water , the rice cooker keeps cooking . Once it goes slightly above that point , the water must have all boiled off or been absorbed , and that means the rice is done , so the cooker switches to a much lower " keep warm " setting . This approach works only for foods that start wet and are done once the standing water is gone , which is why automatic rice cookers are common but there 's no comparably simple way to automatically cook pasta . Fancy rice cookers can be far more elaborate ( with microprocessors and whatnot ) , but simple rice cookers are very simple indeed , with no timing mechanism at all . This means they rely on putting in an appropriate amount of water for how much rice you are cooking . If you put in too little water , the rice cooker will stop when it 's gone but the rice wo n't be done . If you put in too much , you 'll get overcooked rice . Fortunately , rice is not super sensitive and you do n't have to measure carefully , but you need to get it approximately right . For different amounts of rice , you just have to scale the water accordingly . For lentils or beans , you 'll have to use a different water ratio , and you should look it up for the beans you have in mind ( and to make sure they can be cooked reasonably in a rice cooker in the first place ) ; I do n't know how to predict it from first principles .
I believe the unspecified context of this question is cooking in an oven or microwave . No matter what your cooking method , the heat is introduced at the outside of the food : Microwaves only penetrate a short distance ; the rest of the cooking through to the center is by conduction ( or convection , if the food is liquid ) Conduction/convection in an oven only interact with the surface of the food Radiant heat ( infrared essentially ) , one of the main cooking modes in an oven , again only affects the surface By creating a ring shape , if it is practical , you create more surface for the heating modality to interact with the food . This is the reason for an angel food cake pan or bundt pan having a tube at the center -- it allows more surface area to be involved in the cooking process . Also , with the metal pan , the metal has a higher conductivity of heat than does air . This is why parts of the cake in contact with the pan ( or a non-insulated metal cookie sheet , or whatever ) generally brown more than the parts exposed to the air . However , in practice except for things cooked in tube pans , I would n't really worry about this affect . If you can stir occasionally , it becomes close to moot . Note that in pan frying or sauteing or or griddling or stir frying ( depending on the term used in context ) , the main surface area that is relevant is the bottom of the food , that which is contact with the pan . A ring does n't help much here , compared to spreading the food out . I looked at the first part of that thread . It does not seem to be a hot bed of science and knowledge of cookery .
Water has one of the highest heat capacities available : <URL> Your ceramic is not going to hold nearly as much heat as the water bath itself . If you are finding that your bath is cooling too quickly then you are better off investigating your cooler .
Salt dissolves in water . Brining is simply the process of soaking something in a saline solution so that either it absorbs saltwater , or the salinity of the pre-existing water approaches equilibrium with that of the brine . The end state is just a lot of water , some on/inside the meat and some outside , all with approximately the same salinity . If you roast the result , you 're evaporating most of the water but keeping the salt . If you boil it , then you 're just reversing the brining process you followed in the first place , by diluting whatever salt ( not to mention any other minerals/flavour ) it has . The salt in a brined chicken is not reacting with the meat , it 's just dissolved in the water ( which is in/on the meat ) . Give it a good enough " rinse " and the salt water will be gone .
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
You can not find the correct final internal temperature for a whole duck , because it does n't exist . If you stop the cooking when the white meat is tender , you 'll have very tough red meat . If you cook until the collagen is melted , you 'll get very tough white meat . With whole birds , it is more popular to go the collagen route . Especially a duck , with its darker meat overall and sufficient fat in the breast area to insulate the breast meat during smoking and then lubricate it , is a very good candidate for it . To melt the collagen , wait until the duck thigh has gone up to 70 Celsius ( 160 Fahrenheit ) and from then on smoke for 2-4 hours . In this case , the lower part of the range ( 2 hours ) is probably better , to have a chance of a little bit of juiciness to remain in the breast .
As to the science behind why this works , I can only guess . However , as to other things you can try for this trick , I managed to find some references from old cookbooks about using slices of potato for clarifying their deep-fryer oil . Other suggestions were a slice of bread or lemon peel . Weird -- but interesting . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When you have finished frying , clarify the oil by frying a piece of bread , a strip of lemon peel , or a slice of potato in it .
end question
start question
What are the dos and do n'ts regarding cleaning a bamboo cutting board ?
The care of bamboo cutting boards is extremely similar to that of traditional wood cutting boards : Prime them with mineral oil , and refresh it every month or so . ( Wipe with oil , let sit for a while , perhaps 15-20 minutes , wipe off ) . Wash only with mild soap , and rinse and dry immediately . ( Wipe off and let air dry . ) Do n't put in a dishwasher . If using for raw meat , you can sanitize with a very dilute bleach solution ( about a teaspoon of liquid bleach per quart of water , 5 mL per liter ) . Rinse thoroughly afterwards .
I use my roasting pan ( either with or without a rack ) at least once a week to roast vegetables - either for salads , for sides , or ( for instance with pumpkin for soup ) to get a slightly different and more concentrated flavour before blending the veges . I find the vegetables cook more evenly in a roasting pan than a baking pan - perhaps the higher sides help to create a kind of microclimate around the veges ?? Not sure about that one . When making roast vege salads , you can take the pan straight out of the oven and take advantage of the high sides to mix your other ingredients in ( pasta , greens , dressing etc ) then serve from there if no one is looking at your serving dish ! I also use it as a water bath when cooking souffles , puddings etc. .
If you think the wood was treated or fumigated , I would n't trust sanding to make the wood food-safe . As another answer notes , wood is porous and could very well have absorbed the chemicals deeper than you 'll sand out . I would definitely err on the side of caution here and only use wood that you know is safe to begin with . There is no finish that you can use on a cutting board that will keep the base wood completely out of contact with the food , due to knives being used on it . I would recommend starting with hard maple . It makes durable , great-looking cutting boards , and is completely food-safe .
No one device , manual or electric , is ideal for all of the tasks that you have enumerated . Many cooks will have more than one tool , depending on the job at hand . Some spices , particularly cinnamon , are very difficult to grind effectively at home without leaving fibrous bits that may give an unpleasant mouth feel . Of course , when infusing flavor from a whole stick of cinnamon , this is not an issue . Bottom Line I would recommend having at least a Microplane type grater for ginger , garlic , and so on , and a rotary type electric grinder for most hard spices . For the specialty task of making peanut butter , a blender is probably your best tool . Morter and Pestle Also known as a molcajete , is probably the most versatile , but most labor intensive spice grinding tool . Can grind , mash , or mix both dry or wet items , so it is suitable for garlic and ginger ; still it is most effective on very hard , frangible spices which can be crushed , or soft items like garlic which can be mashed . Fibrous spices like cumin can be very difficult to do . Lots of work Only suitable for small quantities Microplane style grater A grater with very fine , usually etched , openings is suitable for some tasks including : Garlic , gingner , galangal and the like Nutmeg Nutmeg Grinder A specialty item , just for nutmeg . Most nutmeg grinders actually make very fine shavings , but it is essentially the same thing . They also have storage for nutmegs . Blender Electric blenders are suitable for some grinding tasks : Making peanut butter Grinding soft spices or making wet spice mixtures , as with garlic , ginger , capiscum type peppers Some high quality blenders may also do a decent job with softer seeds like cumin seeds . Electric rotary grinder These are often marketed as coffee grinders , but they are extremely effective as spice grinders -- however , due to lingering flavors , you want to devote one to either coffee or to spices . Suitable for dry spices , such as cumin , black pepper , allspice , mustard seeds , and so on . Not very effective for the hardest spices , such as cinnamon . Note that clove oil ( also found to some extent in nutmeg ) can cloud plastic parts over time . Pepper Grinder As the name implies , ideal for black pepper , but also effective on other small spices that can fit through the mill such as mustard seeds . Also provides a small quanitity of storage . Most permit the grind size to be adjusted . Specific Questions Which kind of grinders allow water in them for making a paste of the spices ? Mortar and pestle , and blenders are suitable for pastes . However , you can also grind your dry spices , and then add them to a wet mixture to create a paste . Is there some maximum and minimum capacity for each of the type of grinders ? Most home style devices are suitable only for very small quantities . The nutmeg and pepper grinders are good for teaspoon type quantities , and rotary grinders up to a few tablespoons . Blnders have much higher capacities , but may not be effective except with very soft or frangible items . Peanut butter is one application that they do well with in larger quantities . What are the types of manual grinders which do not require too much amount of manual power/effort ? They all require significant effort . For spices used in very small quantities , such as black pepper , that may not be noticeable . Which kind of grinders allow us to have a fine powder of spices rather than bits ? None of the home methods will produce the very fine , even powder that you might expect from a commercial spice house . They have extremely high quality , sometimes specialized equipment , and they also sieve or screen the resulting product to ensure it is uniform , and to exclude larger bits . Some spices are more suitable for home grinding than others . Ones that you should have little trouble with include black pepper , nutmeg , allspice , mustard seed . Spices that are very difficult to grind at home include cinnamon . Cumin , one of the most popular spices , is easy to grind , but difficult to get a perfectly smooth and uniform powder . It tends to have little threads and fibrous bits . In many applications this is not noticeable .
Major ways of thickening a sauce -- or , for that matter , some other liquid : Starch ( e.g. , flour , cornstarch , tapioca , arrowroot ) Emulsion ( e.g. , butter , cream , yolk , mustard , blending in lecithin-and-fat ) Coagulated protein ( e.g. , blood , egg , pureed seafood ) Gels/polysaccharides ( gelatin , alginate , xanthan , pectin , agar agar , guar gum ) Suspension ( general puree of solids ) Note that some of the examples of one category can also fit into another .
It 's not a " cheat sheet " , and is rather too big to stick to your fridge , but I highly recommend the book <URL> , which is an encyclopedia of exactly these associations . What ingredients does any particular ingredient go with ? How do you cook it ? Absolutely terrific book !
Dark sesame seeds are more common in Indian cooking . I personally think that they have a more intense taste . They are also smaller , for what little difference that makes . I would n't rush to use them to make tahini , because the color would be surprising and I suspect that the flavor would be a bit bitter .
If the dishwasher and hand-scrubbing can not remove stains , professionals sometimes use a simple solution : we apply pure bleach directly to the board and scrub it in with a stiff-bristled plastic brush . Then we allow the bleach to sit for 5-10 minutes . At this time , most stains are gone or almost gone . Then we clean the board THOROUGHLY until no bleach smell remains . Usually it takes 2 cycles in a dishwasher or hand scrubbing and rinsing several times . This method is extremely fast and effective , particularly for troublesome vegetable stains ( beets , carrots , chopped herbs ) .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
The King Arthur website lists the ingredients for that item : <URL> It looks like the " sour " flavor comes from several acids ( acetic , lactic , and citric ) . I assume the recipe calls for " sour " flavor instead of being a sourdough recipe like a traditional rye bread would be . Pickle juice may be a good substitute , since it 's mainly vinegar [ i.e. acetic acid ] . The " bread improver " also includes wheat gluten , which may be helpful if you 're using a non-bread flour ( bread flour contains more gluten than whole wheat or AP flours ) .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
Agaricus bisporus is commonly found in two varieties a brown and a white variety both of them have a variety of aliases as you have already found out ... and the name portobella is used for mature fruiting bodies of both varieties . So you can find the brown variety in all sizes from tiny " button " mushrooms over closed and open small and big non-mature fruiting bodies to the big open mature portobellos . The brown-capped variety will be ( at least somewhat ) brown through all stages and the white-capped one will have a white cap through all stages . While maturing the gills will turn from white to brown in all varieties , as brown is the color of mature spores in this mushroom species . Anyway , your assumption is correct - that the chestnut mushroom is in fact a baby ( = immature fruiting body ) brown-capped portobello mushroom .
What you are looking at here is an old , almost forgotten method of proofing yeast dough for cold conditions . I have an old cook book1 from ca. 1930 , when rooms could be cold in winter . I 'd say it 's " granny 's version of proofing in the fridge " . My book says to leave out about 1/4 of the flour , all sugar and , if used , the spices . It does not , however , say to use cheese cloth . The firm ball of dough is simply placed in a sink or bowl full of cold water , where it sticks to the bottom in the beginning . It should peel off , turn upside down &amp; rise to the surface within an hour ( or longer , if little yeast was used ) . Then , it 's taken out , first the sugar , then the flour are kneaded in , and finished according to the original recipe . I have tried it once out of curiosity , but that was probably 20 years ago &amp; I was way less experienced than today . I do not recall any major differences with the finished product ( sweet bread , in my case ) . ( 1 ) It 's in German , " <URL> ; Kochen und Backen nach Grundrezepten " .
They are not equivalent cuts and ' should not ' be used interchangeably . Stir Fry meat is cut from the more tender cuts of beef ( tri-tip , sirloin , rib-eye ) and do n't require much time cooking to be ' ready to eat ' . Stew Beef is from less tender cuts ( the Chuck or Eye of Round ) which will become tender after a ' significant ' time braising ( cooking in liquid ) . That said ... the food police wo n't show up at your door if decide to interchange these , and using stir fry beef for stew is n't a terrible thing to do ... but you will likely not be happy if you try to switch the other way .
Okay , I 'm going to partially answer the initial question / title , as the pairing really is n't what knife for what food , but what knife for what type of cutting . And I say partially answer , as there are a lot of types of knives ... I 'm only going to list the more common knives , as the <URL> . This is only the tip of the iceburg . I 'm making this answer community wiki , if people want to add knives , or details of anything I listed . ( although , if you want to organize it by use ( eg , chopping/slicing/paring / etc , it might be better to move that to a separate answer , or this is going to get way too long ) Chef 's knife -- has a large-ish blade ( generally 8 " or longer , ~ 2 " high near the bolster ) , with a convex curve that 's more dramatic near the tip . Its characteristic use is to keep the tip on the cutting board , and rock the handle down ( preferably using the weight of the blade ) to slice through things . Paring knife -- a smaller knife ( ~ 3-4 " long ) , used for paring . ( cutting in the hand ; peeling , stuff that does n't require a cutting board ) . The blade may be concave ( bird 's beak ) , straight ( sheep 's foot ) or convex ( spear point ) . Slicer -- a long ( ~ 10 " or longer ) , straight , thin knife , used for slicing large items ( eg , meats ) Bread knife -- a long ( ~ 8 " + ) serrated knife , used for slicing bread . Boning / Fillet knife -- a thin , flexible blade , used for cutting between joints and stripping meat from carcasses . Meat cleaver -- a thick , wide ( often 4 " + tall ) knife , used for hacking through bones or frozen items . Vegetable cleaver / Chinese cleaver : a sharp , thin , smaller cleaver , used for delicate work that should never be used for cutting through bones . Santoku -- cleaver-like in a design , but has a slight convex blade and closer in scale to a small chef 's knife ( 5 to 7 " long , about 1.5 " tall ) . Good for general use . Utility knife / tomato knife -- mid-sized ( ~ 5-6 " long ) , serated knife . Good for when you need a small serated knife , such as um ... tomatoes . And works pretty well for cutting medium firm cheeses . Cheese knives -- um ... <URL> Steak knives -- mid-sized knives to be used at the dinner table , that are either very , very sharp , or serated . Table / dinner knife -- the basic sort of knife as part of a table setting Butter knife -- a short , dull knife , possibly offset , used for spreading butter or things of a similar consistency . And not knives , but related : Kitchen shears -- look like your general run-of-the-mill scissors , although the good ones come apart so they can be cleaned easily . Poultry shears -- heavier duty , often spring loaded ... look more like pruning sheers ( that you 'd just for trimming down a rose bush ) . They have a notch in one of the blades near the pivot point so that you can cut through a bone without it slipping . Ideal for cutting the backbone out of a chicken . Bench knife / scraper -- a wide , dull piece of metal with a handle along one edge . It 's used for dividing dough , scraping down your work surface ( bench ) , but can also be used to scoop up stuff to transfer to another location ( eg , dump in a pot ) Pizza cutter -- a circular blade attached to some sort of a handle ( which might be more like a shroud ) . Can be used for lots more than just pizza , though . Great for cutting thin , but large objects . ( eg , cutting breadsticks , trimming filo , puff pastry or other rolled out dough , etc. ) Vegetable peeler -- a handle with a swiveling sort of blade on it , but where the cutting edge is along a slit in the middle . You have standard peelers , and ' Y ' peelers . Normally smooth blades , but may be serrated . Good for peeling the skin off items , cutting vegetables into ribbons , or shaving chocolate . Mandoline -- a blade fixed on a planar surface . Used to make thin slices of a consistent thickness by moving the food against the blade .
I very quickly found nutritional information for storebought ( Swanson ) <URL> and <URL> . As you 'd expect , neither one contains all that much protein . The stock does contain substantially more : 4g per cup compared to 1g - this should also be expected , since stock has some gelatin in it , and gelatin is mostly protein . Of course , it 's commercially made ; I imagine you 'd be hard-pressed to find good nutritional data for homemade stock and broth .
Your primary defenses against cross-contamination include proper planning in the order of what you 're cutting and proper cleaning between uses . In the case of your stew , simply cut the vegetables first and then cut your meat . Doing so in this order you wo n't need to wash the board between the vegetables and meat . If you want to expedite the cooking process , then either use a separate board for the meat first so that you can start browning it while cutting the vegetables , or simply wash and re-use the board . A good scrubbing with hot soapy water is fine for your knife and board ( including wood boards ) . As mentioned previously , if you 're still concerned about bacteria you can rub the board with lemon juice or vinegar which will kill any residual bacteria . Using separate boards that are relegated to specific meat vs. vegetable duty is n't necessary as long as you 're properly cleaning your boards . A board only used for meat items is just as liable to transfer bacteria to the next item being cut on it if it is n't properly washed between uses . That being said , if you 're properly cleaning them then it 's fine to cut vegetables on a board that 's also been used previously for meat . As for cutting boards , your best bet for the care and maintenance for your knives are either wood or composite materials ( usually a laminated product of paper and resin - " Epicurean " being a prominent brand . Never use a tempered glass cutting board or other hard surface ( granite , marble , Corian , etc. ) as these are heavily damaging to the edge of your blade and unsafe for you as there is nothing for the knife to bite and grip into and it 's much more likely to slip and cut you . Plastic cutting boards and mats are n't very good on your knives and the boards in particular are either too hard and dull your blade prematurely or are soft and end up with lots of cuts and grooves which then trap food . People often have a false sense of security with plastic boards believing them to be " non-porous " . As the board is used , food material ends up crammed into the cuts and grooves and while the boards can go into the dishwasher , that only removes the surface grime , not that which is impacted and over time you increase the potential for bacterial growth to occur . Wood boards ( including bamboo ) are much better on your knives but to maintain them in good condition you need to properly maintain them . Periodically , when they look dry ( kind of like chapped skin ) you need to oil them with mineral oil . The mineral oil you buy at your local drugstore or grocery store pharmacy is fine , no need to buy fancy " block oil " in gourmet shops . Do n't use vegetable based oils as they will go rancid and transfer the flavor to your food . I like to give the cutting board a heavy coating at night , let it soak in overnight , and then buff off anything that did n't soak in . This will keep your wood fibers soft and supple so that the board wo n't split and crack , the fibers will swell back together making it more " self-healing " as you cut on it , and the oil in the wood will repel liquids that would otherwise try to soak in . When a wooden board gets marred and nicked up you just need to take it to the garage and give it a good sanding before dusting off , rinsing and re-oiling . Do n't use bleach on boards ( plastic or otherwise ) as it will typically leave a distinct smell in the board .
Both sweet and mild refers to the sausages without hot red pepper flakes . The fact they are called sweet Italian sausages does n't mean they contain sugar .
DO I has to ? Nobody learned it ? Garum , a fermented sauce made with anchovies as the principal ingredient , was the Romans ' legacy to Britain when they left GB for home . They put the stuff in everything - Roman Fricassee of Dormouse would be naturally adorned with garum , Roman asparagus would have to be served with garum ... There was a sauce , Worcester sauce , that had disputed origins - but was obviously based on an English version of garum , . So there was a historic Dickensian precedent a la Jarndyce v Jarndyce between Lea and Perrins , who sold Worcestershire sauce to avoid argument , and Hammonds of Bradford who sold something very similar marked " Yorkshire Relish " , which they acquired when they bought Goodall , Backhouse of Leeds . What happened was that Hammonds won , in that for a brief period they sold WORCESTER sauce without dispute about the name , instead of calling it Yorkshire Relish . Just after that they were taken over by some multinational who did n't give a tinker 's cuss about that valuable TM , just the market share . Some brands , including Yorkshire Relish , were sold to an Irish company who are still making the " thick " Yorkshire Relish brown sauce in Ireland , but not the " thin " version we are discussing here . Lea and Perrins are still selling Worcestershire sauce . The Hammonds Sauceworks brass band are still performing , although the factory produces no Yorkshire Relish . There is a factory somewhere producing Henderson 's Relish , which is very similar to Worcester sauce , but made in Sheffield with no Garum - never seen an anchovy . At least Lea and Perrins still produce the closest thing to a traditional product which goes back 2,000 years . Whatever they do with the anchovies , that component is said to be left for three years to mature .
Yes , recipes need to be changed as well . The most important [ IMHO ] difference is leavening ( yeast/baking powder/soda etc. ) The next issue is ratios , once you get beyond ' doubling ' a home recipe your ratios will get out of sync . When you multiply dry ingredients ( other than yeast ) do so By Weight rather than dry measure . ( note for sugars in a yeast leavened recipe : sugar is often ' treated as ' a ' wet ingredient ' , still multiply by weight , this will provide the correct amount of food for the yeast ) Rule of thumb for yeast baking is to multiply everything but DO NOT multiply the yeast for doing 2X or 4X . When you are increasing the recipe by 8X you double the original amount of yeast . Your rising time may increase but that also happens with temperature variations . Rule of thumb for chemical leavening is to multiply carefully ALL ingredients . If using baking soda and acid , sift the baking soda with flour and mix the acid ( vinegar , lemon juice , sour milk ) with other liquid ingredients . That way you do n't lose rising power when mixing more dough . But for chemical leavening , you have to bake the mix without it sitting around . So you might weigh and set up 4X , 4X , 4X if you need 12X yield . [ from <URL> Home sized recipes can usually only be doubled safely . Beyond that , due to rounding , the ratios within the recipe will get out of sync . We have a number of pro resources here , take a look : <URL> ( <URL> ) These are , obviously , only ' general guidelines , your mileage may vary with any given recipe .
end question
start question
Is it true that even quality knives with wood handles can warp and be contaminated with bacteria ?
Knives are very hard-worked tools in the kitchen , and need to be easy to clean and maintain . At all quality levels , unless resin impregnated or otherwise treated , wood does not stand up well to harsh treatment , such as frequent trips through the dishwasher . Even if washed by hand , you want to wash it and then dry it , so the water does n't soak in and lead over time to cracking and warping , plus a rough , unpleasant feel in the hand as the fibers expand and separate . As to sanitation , wooden handles are much akin to cutting boards . If treated properly , it is not an issue . You can even , occassionaly , use a mild bleach solution ( followed by rinsing and drying ) to sanitize them . If treated with reasonable care , by handwashing and immediate drying , wooden handles will perform very well , and of course they are very attractive . Still , on balance , wooden handles require more care than some of the resin , plastic , or metal handles . Choosing among the options is about balancing the feel and beauty and maintenance to your needs and desires . For me , personally , I choose the resin handles as they are very durable and low maintenance .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
You can crisp them up again in a hot oven for a few minutes ( exact temperature not too important , spread them out thinly on a baking sheet and take them out before they burn ) . I 'd then go on to make a normal cornflake cake recipe of your liking straight away , to avoid having the same problem again .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
White sugar is generally <URL> and has been heavily refined , so it wo n't undergo any chemical changes over time . In fact , sugar is actually <URL> . Brown sugar is a bit different . It gets hard simply because it loses moisture - i.e. the water evaporates - and that wo n't cause the taste to change . However , some people have reported brown sugar actually <URL> ( also <URL> ) . This fermentation is more likely to happen than in white sugar due to the presence of molasses . It takes a long time for fermentation to occur , but it can definitely occur , and that will most certainly change the flavour . I 'm not sure if I 'd call it " losing " the flavour ; some might argue that the presence of alcohol is a good thing , although fermented sugar obviously will not be as sweet . I would not worry about the flavour of brown sugar that has merely hardened ; if it smells like alcohol , though , you might want to be more careful .
This has to do with esters , which are flavor compounds created during fermentation . Each grape variety has a unique physiological make up with aromatic compounds found in trace amounts within the grape skin cells . The concentration of each of these aromatic sensations is dependent on the grape type and is mostly undetectable until the juice is fermented . Fermentation magnifies and makes these aromas more easily perceived by the nose , so think of wine as a caricature of the grape . From <URL> . <URL> <URL> , although in Shiraz I imagine it 's the same or similar to that in Zinfandel : Australian chemists have identified the compound responsible for the peppery aroma of the country 's iconic Shiraz wines - and discovered the same molecule is by far the strongest aroma in peppercorns themselves .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
The magic word is " water " - the dough needs sufficient moisture to stay moist while it expands to one big pocket and enough to generate the steam to make that pocket . Most people when doing doughs make them too dry because they 're easier to work with . As the dough rests , it will pull together more . Ideally make your doughs for this kind of bread slightly wetter than you think and then check it after its been mixed for 30 minutes or so . Additionally , as you knead and then in the fermentation stage it will firm up some . Difference in water content of the dough causes many of the consistencies for bakers . It will also depend on how much it dries after its been rolled so thin - keep it covered . Alternatively , if you 've put your first one in and found out its too dry , then try <URL> and let it rest there for 5 minutes or so . I tested batches with spritzing and without , and so long as there 's enough water in your dough and the oven is hot enough to make the steam - it does n't seem to matter . Every one came out perfect .
They 're the same thing - convection ovens are also known as fan-assist ovens ( see for example <URL> ) , since they 're basically an oven with a fan . Maybe what you had previously was marketed as a fan-assisted oven , and threw out the phrase " conventional cooking " to emphasize that you can still do everything you conventionally could . But it sounds like you 're just talking about two different convection ovens here . More likely , the problems you 're having are to do with either the convection being more efficient in your new oven , or the temperature control being off on one of the two . Ovens are n't always perfect , so likely your new oven is hotter when you set it to a given temperature than the old one . It might also have a more efficient fan . You can probably learn to adjust by trial and error - reduce temperatures , and check things frequently until you figure out you 've gotten it right . It might also be helpful to grab a thermometer and see if your new oven is lying to you about the temperature . ( If you were previously using non-convection recipes in a convection oven , without adjustment , then your old oven was probably either too cool or its fan was n't doing much . If you were adjusting recipes for convection previously , then maybe your new oven is hotter than it should be . )
Zwieback toast is a twice-baked sweetened toast fed to teething children . It is also known as teething toast , and can be found in the baby aisle of most grocery stores .
( disclaimer : I 've only heard of people doing this , not done it myself . ) Yes , it can be done . You 're looking for <URL> canning . Various places will sell you the bags , and you can vacuum seal them with a chamber vac , though you may need an upgraded heat bar . Then you can process them in a pressure canner ( or preferably autoclave ) . I 'd definitely follow the normal reheating recommendations ( the boil it 10 minutes bit ) before eating . I do n't think USDA has home canning guides for retort pouches .
Onion tastes good , especially when caramelized , and since both it and the chicken go on to to be cooked for an extended time in the chili , there 's really no food safety concern with cooking them together . Both contribute to the finished flavor of the dish , and cooking them together saves time . There 's no magical interaction between chicken and onion - if there were you 'd see the same step in many different types of recipes .
Generally speaking , maple syrup will work fine in any recipe that calls for honey . They may have slightly different viscosities and water content , but that could be true between two honeys as well , so I would n't worry about it a lot . The only thing I think you really have to consider is whether the flavor of maple syrup is appealing in the dish you would substitute it in . In most cases , I think it will be fine , especially if the dish would have worked well with a dark , fully flavored honey . You might also like to try sorghum syrup , molasses , or agave nectar as other possible replacements .
Not using standard practice might violate safety standards in a professional context . Technically , the important factor is whether the residues are made of something perfectly water soluble ( sugar , salt , fat-free watery or alcoholic solutions , insoluble but not sticky solid particles ... ) or of something that is not water soluble and that will adhere to the dishes ( about anything containing oils/fats ) . If you could n't properly get it off your hands without soap , you wo n't get it off the dishes without soap .
The first thing I would suggest is finding a copy of " Food and Beverage Mycology , 2nd . Edition " by Larry R. Beuchat . There are two chapters that are directly pertinent to your question : " field and storage fungi " ( p211-232 ) and " mycotoxins " ( p517-570 ) . However , in order to specifically answer the question , one would need to be familiar with three additional chapters : 50 pages of classification of yeast and molds at the beginning of the book , and two equally substantial chapters on detection of mycotoxins and fungi . Without identifying the exact species of fungus on the wood , and therefore what particular toxins it may produce ( many produce toxins that are harmful to us , some produce ones that are only harmful to other fungi ) , it is impossible to say that it is safe to smoke with this wood . Some of the toxins may be degraded by heat , some may become even more hazardous . Even with all of my equipment in my " kitchen lab " ( including an incubator that I use for growing edible fungi ) , I would just use the mold-covered wood for a nice fire around which my neighbors could gather and share some barbecue smoked on clean , dry wood ( scientific studies show that soaking wood does not actually do anything but get the very outside layer wet ) .
Yes , I 've heard this suggested , using wet/dry sandpaper and a mousepad . It is a very inexpensive way to match a whetstone , and you can use sandpaper with the same grit to produce an excellent edge . You duct-tape the sand-paper together so it wraps around the mouse pad , and then pull the knife along the sandpaper with the edge trailing . This is to say , you use sandpaper in the opposite direction as a whetstone . Once you work up to the finest-grit papers , you can use jeweler 's polish and a leather strop for a truly razor-sharp edge . Because the mouse pad 's rubber/foam has some give , this method produces a convex edge which remains sharp for longer that an V-cut , because it has more metal behind the edge . It also still presents a very sharp point for cutting , moreso than an equivalent V-cut front bevel . Using sandpaper will also cost a small fraction of what you spend on a good sharpening stone , which will run you $ 50 or more PER STONE . Wondering what grit to use ? There are comprehensive tables <URL> and <URL> . However , here is a quick-reference mini-table for you : Name / US Grit Rating / Use Coarse / 100-400 / Remove lots of metal . At the low-end of the range , used for reshaping blades , taking out large chips , or restoring snapped points . At the higher end of grit range , used to establish a bevel angle and restore very dull edges . Medium / 400-700 / Remove moderate amounts of metal . For refining an edge established with coarse grits , and for restoring moderately dull blades . Can be used to establish a bevel angle , but it will take considerably longer . 600 grit is a common point to start at for standard sharpening . Fine / 800-1200 / For finishing a blade or touching-up a slightly dull blade . At about 1000 grit , you will get something equivalent to a factory edge , assuming you use the same bevel angle . Ceramic steels have grits in this range . Extra-Fine / 2000 + / For polishing . Higher grits create a shinier and sharper edge , until at 8000 + grit you get mirror finishes and sharpness equivalent to a straight razor . If you 're going to bother using grits this high , a leather strop and polishing paste may serve you better than even a ceramic steel ; the steel would actually be reducing the edge sharpness with use . Source : <URL> Source2 : <URL> Edit : Another way to use sandpaper in sharpening -- expanding the grit range for a Spyderco Sharpmaker I 'm currently using sandpaper to make a very coarse stone for sharpening extremely dull edges on my Spyderco Sharpmaker . I wrap both of the normal triangular stones with a strip of emery cloth or 220-grit wet/dry sandpaper , and then hold it in place with medium binder clips . Since the lowest stone the Sharpmaker comes with is 800-grit ceramic , this saves HOURS versus using the normal stones . It is also considerably cheaper than the diamond stones they sell ; for a big tub of clips and a package of sandpaper , I paid $ 7 , versus about $ 37 for the diamond rods .
It 's feasible , but then you 'd better really like the taste of turpentine and have the courage to take a chance on ingesting it . Turpentine comes from the oils of pine and -- you guessed it -- spruce . I would n't recommend taking a chance on smoking anything using coniferous materials . If you 're in an area with spruce , then you probably have alder as well . There 's your viable alternative . Additional info : If you do n't have alder handy or you just dislike alder smoke , then wild hazelnut or wild applewood will work just as well . ( I use the applewood . ) If you do n't live where the trees are , most hardware stores that sell wood stove or pellet stove fuel will have wood chips made from hardwood trees . If you live anywhere near an orchard , take a drive to the country and ask a grower if you can buy or reserve some apple , cherry , or nut tree prunings . And finally , if you live in eastern North America , maple and butternut woods make excellent smoking materials .
Based on comments to the original question : It sounds like you used the wrong type of sugar . Icing sugar is also referred to as <URL> or confectioner 's sugar . From your description , it sounds like you used what we call ( in Canada ) superfine or fruit sugar ( sugar for sprinkling on fruit , not from fruit ) .
end question
start question
Is there a reason to NOT use no-stick spray ( Pam ) for handling dough ?
The only potential reasons not to use spray oil to help handle dough are : There is a small amount of lecithin in most spray oils The oil may not be of the highest quality , and thus not have the best taste The propellants may leave an off-taste You are using it in such tiny quantities , however , that I do n't think either of these are a practical concern , except possibly in the face of an extreme soy allergy ( if the lecithin is from soy ) .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
You absolutely can do that . Brits call it <URL> , and the technique is actually fairly forgiving . You can make them muffin sized , or you can make one big popover . Just do n't mess around , popovers get their " pop " from steam . A medium cast-iron skillet ( 9 inches or 23 cm , roughly ) is perfect , you can do it in a square tin too . My British buddy says : <URL>
The primary difference between a dumpling and a noodle , besides shape , is leavening . Dumplings usually have either egg or baking powder to make them lighter . There 's considerable bleedover in terminology here . It 's reminiscent of the difficulty of defining " chowder " . You 're always finding a counterexample . I would n't be surprised if someone came up with something called gnocchi , gnochs , gnocchetti , that has no leavening . I can think of two myself . Gnocchetti alla romana are semolina " dumplings " sometimes leavened with egg , particularly when they contain spinach , but more often not . Gnocchetti sardi are dry pasta shapes that kind of look like thin potato gnocchi .
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
i STRONGLY recommend against it . i can speak from experience that the sudden change in temperature can cause glass baking dishes ( particularly when they go from as high of a heat required by no-knead bread to a cool room temp ) to shatter and explode ! i had a pyrex dish go supernova on me once , sending hot flying glass shards all over the kitchen . how i did n't get hit i 'll never know , but it melted holes in our floor and left scorch marks ! more information from Consumer Reports : <URL> you can pick up some heavy pots suitable for no-knead break baking at thrift stores and garage sales for a song . if you can find a cast-iron dutch oven , even better ! i urge you to dig around a bit . the results are really worth it .
There are essentially two methods to get what you want , and you can use them separately or together : Saturated Fat Butter and other saturated fats ( i.e. bacon fat or even chicken fat ) will do wonders to " bind " sauces to chicken . Among other reasons , it 's partly because saturated fat is solid at room temperature and still fairly viscous at moderately higher temperatures . In fact , traditional " wing sauce " is invariably some combination of hot sauce and butter . The butter helps cut the spiciness and also helps keep the sauce attached to the meat . Dry Heat I use this technique for ribs far more often than chicken , but the idea here is to make the sauce into a glaze by reducing it . Set your oven to broil and apply a thin coat of sauce to the meat ; make sure you cover it completely but do n't glob it on . Now put the meat on a rack beneath the broiler and wait until you see the sauce starting to bubble ( should be no more than 1-2 minutes if you 've applied enough sauce and your oven is hot enough ) . Then take it out of the oven . Repeat several times until you 've got a thick , sticky coat of sauce ( usually around 5 times for me ) . Note that if the sauce is very thick ( i.e. a store-bought BBQ sauce ) then you 'll actually want to water it down a bit first . For chicken I honestly prefer to just throw in some butter , but you can use either technique as long as the meat is n't too lean .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
Your best bet is a stone ground bread flour or hard flour in the US that means finding a local mill . At your standard supermarket a high protein bread flour is your only option if you can find it there . I generally have to venture out to a Whole Foods market to find that as my " local " grocery store does n't carry it . You could also try Tipo 00 , I have run across it in some specialty stores . You are looking for the highest gluten content you can find so that you can get the elasticity you need to make proper strudel .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
Are you using non-stick cookware ? Beware because there is a well-documented medical effect caused by the fumes released when various non-stick components are heated starting at about 300 ° F ( 149 ° C ) and beyond . <URL> You should always have something in a non-stick pan when it is over a flame .
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
Honey contains lots of aromatic compounds , which are quite big , fragile molecules . This is one of the reasons why cold centrifuged honey costs more . When you decrystalize honey by heating it , many of these aromatic molecules break up , and you lose the complexity of the aromas . So yes , it is bad for the honey . Also , it may reduce its health benefits , as vitamins and other micronutrients tend to degrade under heat ( but only some of them - others , like trace minerals , are quite unimpressed by temperature ) . Of course , the question is not only if it is bad , but if it is worse than eating crystalized honey . This depends on 1 . The honey quality and 2 . the way you plan to use the honey . With the honey quality , it is obvious that , if the honey has already been heated in the production process , the volatile stuff has already been destroyed , so subsequent heating for decrystalization is not a problem . But if you spent money on cold centrifuged honey , you are negating its benefits by heating it . About the use : If you will heat it anyway ( as in putting it in tea , or baking it into a dough ) , there is no reason not to decrystalize first . Also , if you are only using it as a sweetener , even cold , there is no problem in heating it . But if you are using it as an aromatic agent , like in a creme fraîche and honey dressing for a fruit salad , or using it as a bread spread , then it will taste better if never heated . It will still have a general honey taste and aroma , but the subtle notes will be missing . Whether this bothers you or not depends on whether you rate aroma or texture higher . My personal choice is to not heat honey in these cases , but your preference might be different . Probably the best way to decide is to take a small amount of crystalized good quality honey , heat it , and compare it side-by-side with the crystalized version . Then use whatever version you like better . If you happen to like the decrystalized one more , it is probably a good idea to not spend money on fancy honeys in the future ( " cold-centrifuged lavender honey from South France " etc. ) , as it wo n't taste all that different from a common wildflower honey after decrystalization .
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
The second rising is quite necessary for good , light , airy bread . When you fold the bread and then shape it into a proper loaf , you compress it , pushing out some of the air pockets that grew when it was rising . If you do n't let it rise a second time after shaping , the bread wo n't have the proper airy-ness and it will be very dense . You ca n't shape the bread properly at the beginning , so you must do it in two steps . I suppose that if you 're OK with dense bread , you can fold and shape it and then put it right in the oven but I do n't think you 'll like the outcome .
It is almost impossible to reduce the sweetness of cookie dough once made , without further reducing the quality . The closest you could come would be to create a second batch of cookie dough ingredients with reduced sugar , and combine it with your existing dough . However , it will be difficult to achieve good integration of the two batches , and even if you do , the extra working of the first batch from the mixing will create additional gluten , making tougher cookies . In this case , you might want to try some sort of tart lemon glaze or perhaps a very bittersweet chocolate icing to compliment your cookies and reduce the impression of sweetness . On the other hand , except for butter , sugar cookies contain no expensive ingredients . It may not be worth trying to salvage this batch . In the end , this is probably a lesson learned that your particular recipe is not to your liking as is . Next time , you will want to either reduce the sugar , or use another recipe .
What you need for the conversion of collagen is a certain amount of energy . It is a complicated process - the melting point is around 70 ° C for the type of collagen contained in beef , but the melting does not happen instantly once the meat reaches 70 ° C . In a pressure cooking , you can apply the same amount of energy in a shorter amount of time . This is not bad , as opposed to slow roasting of collagen-poor meat . In collagen-poor meat , you have two types of protein , which are soft and wet . Under heat , they curdle , becoming tough and dry . The perfect meat is when the first type has curdled ( so the meat is not raw ) but the second has n't , so it still holds juices inside . If you curdle both , your meat gets tough and you ca n't take it apart with your teeth . In collagen-rich meat , you curdle both proteins - the collagen itself is tough and you want to melt it , but this happens long after the meat has curdled . But because the muscle fibers are not clinging to each other , but separated by collagen , you still get tasty meat . For that , you melt the collagen into gelatin , and serve the meat warm , so that the dry fibers are separated by the smooth , juicy melted gelatin . Unlike slow-roasted meat , you do n't have to tear the juiceless fibers apart , and the gelatin makes up for the missing meat juices which were expelled from the cells during curdling . So , in slow-roasted meat you do n't want to cross the temperature limit for curdling a certain protein , this is why you have to apply heat slowly until the center of the meat has cooked , without the outside getting overcooked . In collagen-rich meat , there is no upper limit at which the meat gets non-tasty , so you can push the energy needed for the collagen-to-gelatin conversion quickly into your meat . The pressure cooker can do this better than the normal boiling process .
end question
start question
Can I make choux pastry with an electric hob ?
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
You can use Chuck to make your shredded beef . Cook it for a long time , at a low temperature , until a probe slides in and out of it with no resistance . Braising in a liquid seasoned with spices like cumin , garlic , and chili powder will get you the flavor profile you want ( I recommend either finding a recipe or some trial and error ) .
Classic puff pastry absolutely needs a final resting and cooling time in the fridge before you use it for your croissants , palmiers , danishes ... Most recipes give a minimum rest of 30-60 minutes after the last " fold " , but overnight in the fridge is absolutely fine . I 'm not sure whether storing it for two days might have negative side effects , but up to one day is no problem at all .
You can use a solution of vinegar and water to descale your kettle ( unless , as hobodave mentioned , the manufacturer advises against using vinegar ) . Fill your kettle with water until it 's half full ; add about 1/2 cup of vinegar to the water , and then allow it to boil for about 10 minutes . Allow the water to cool and unplug your kettle . Gently scrub away the scale with a non-metallic pad ( do n't scrub the heating element if it 's exposed ; wipe that with a sponge ) . Rinse your kettle several times after removing the scale , and then boil one or two fillings of water in it to ensure that you remove all traces of the vinegar .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
I think it depends how fussy a presentation you are working on . If it has to be perfect , there really is n't going to be any fixing it . If some variation is acceptable , just wait til it is a bit softer and patch the rip back together like you would any other dough . You 'll get less nice separation of the layers in that area .
Yes.The basic ingredients for both are the same ; the difference lies in how they are cooked .
Of course you can make gyoza with raw meat -- that would be the traditional method . You can find countless recipes , including raw meat ones , simply by googling " <URL> " . While perhaps less common , you can also google " <URL> " to find many options using chicken such as <URL> , although there are some false hits mixed in that are not chicken based . Gyoza ( which are the Japanese version of pot stickers ) are normally not much larger than bite sized . This small size will help ensure that they are cooked through during the hybrid frying/steaming method that gives them their crispy bottoms , which is normally similar to : Fry the dumplings , flat side down , until the bottoms begin to be brown . Add water to the pan , and cover , creating a makeshift steaming environment to cook the dumpling through . Allow the water to evaporate and the bottoms to re-crisp . While it is is fairly difficult to take the internal temperature of a single dumpling ( you probably can if you have a very high quality instant-read thermometer with a short probe distance , like a Thermapen ) , you can still judge their doneness indirectly by squeezing . They will be quite firm . The small size ( even very big Chinese style pot stickers tend not to be more than an inch/couple cm wide , although they may be longer ) helps make sure they can cook through very quickly ; steaming is also a very effective method at transferring heat into the target food . So yes , making gyoza with raw meat , done with some care , is safe .
So , there 's maybe a few things I found to reduce the astringency or bitterness of spinach . If you can reduce the bitterness to a flavor you like first , rather then relying on the sugar to mask or balance astringency ( which it does n't hide so much ) - you can probably end up with a better dessert . One thought is that <URL> the spinach will help counter bitterness . briefly boil your washed spinach , and discard the water . If you 're intending to further cook the spinach afterwards ( as in making a fruit-based halwa ) , cold shocking it might not be needed - It 's possible that discarding the water will be enough , though of course you can try with and without the cold shock to see what works for you . Another thing is astringency can be countered or hidden by soaking in <URL> - Adding a bit of <URL> to your final recipe ( as in some of the fattier nut-style halwas ) should help balance a little bitterness , Pre-soaking the spinach in milk and discarding might work to draw out some of the astringency . Soaking in food grade lime or absorbic acid like lemon juice or vitamin C , might also work . Another option is to consider the source of your spinach - <URL> ( for example ) will likely not have as much of the bitterness in it to begin with , compared to a cooked full grown spinach . Baby spinach is mild enough to be eaten straight in a salad , mild enough that it might even be candied , like <URL> , for a garnish after your dish is complete . You might also consider whether the spinach will work better as a flavoring agent or as a bulk agent in your halwa - many fruit based halwas ( which seems the easiest method ) simply stew the fruit with sugar for a long cooking period , so you need to make sure the spinach as a whole is not going to turn bitter or change while cooking . Other types of halwa may use different ingredients , for different effects - a jelly based or nut-based halwa might easily be flavored with spinach juice ... juice which can be extracted at any point along the process , from raw to well-boiled . Leaving the solids behind may help reduce unwanted flavors - or just make the juice more controllable ( that is , extract the juice when it is a flavor you like , and the lack of the rest of the plant might keep it form changing overmuch ) . You might even consider pairing your spinach with another fruit or vegetable , something complementary or neutral for the bulk removed if you go the juice route - something mild and vegetal might mellow the spinach taste without overriding it ( especially if you watch the proportions and use more spinach flavor , less other flavors ) . Maybe watercress , or celery , asparagus , or bellpepper , something like that that tastes green , or tastes good with spinach . Or you could find a flavor that goes well with the spinach - citrus , or apple , or berries - the kind of flavors that show up on sweet dressings for fresh spinach salads .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
You might try ground fennel seed , or even anise , but they will not have quite the same quality . You would certainly have to increase the quantity . In situations like this , I have to point out : it does not make sense to make a dish where you are forced to substitute for the ingredient which gives the dish its identity . Instead , make something where you can employ the star ingredient .
Yes , all it is , is flavour . Apple juice and grape juice are 2 things I 've used in the past for non-alcohol people . You can also get away with not using anything as a replacement as long as you use enough of everything else ( butter and parmesan etc ) . Wine just gives a little depth and a sort of ' freshness ' . Edit : I just read the vegetarian part of your question . I 'm assuming you already know , but Parmesan is n't vegetarian , as it is made from rennet ( <URL> ) , and most commonly from the fourth stomach of young calves . The vegetarian substitute 's I 've tried in the past ( Called pasta cheese ) , are not great . However , unlike Parmesan , Gruyere is allowed to be made with vegetable rennet and taste 's great ( I personally prefer it over Parmesan ) .
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
I would n't recommend to bake this again and eat it because there is a food safety issue . If you had noticed this right after baking , this would not be a problem regarding food safety . But since the bread stayed for many hours in the <URL> and since it contained perishable ingredients like eggs , I strongly suggest to discard the raw bread .
Technique for working with choux is important . Sounds like you have the right oven temp to get that initial POOF ! but sounds like the second stage is missing for working with larger shapes . What we do in the bakery is start off at the high temp to get that steam expansion and slight crispness to the outside . We then turn the oven down about 50F-100F and continue to bake them so the dough cooks all the way through . At about the 3/4 point we 'll sometimes quickly poke the bottoms to allow steam to escape easier . Once you stuff the shells with your filling they get soft again so a really crispy shell is n't a big concern for us . It 's about getting the right colour and the complete cooking in the middle . Also , if it does n't quick work out you can do as another poster said , scoop out the under done dough . Good luck !
Fire is typically a poor heat source for direct cooking . It fluctuates with every breeze so the heating is very erratic . It also produces a lot of soot which tastes terrible and is bad for you . When cooking on a campfire much better results are had by cooking next to the coals than above the flame . Cooking with a gas flame is more reliable of course . A couple direct cooking applications of fire in the kitchen , that I can think of are : Flambe : Lighting a sauce which contains a lot of alcohol to burn off some of the raw alcohol taste . Roasting : Putting a steaming basket over a gas flame and charring the skin of peppers or eggplant . Caramelizing : Using a blowtorch to put a crust on creme brulee or to sear the exterior of a sous vide steak . I would recommend starting with the blowtorch for several reasons : It is harder to burn your house down with a torch than with a pan of flame . Blow torches are useful for things outside of the kitchen like stripping paint or starting the grill . There is something deeply satisfying about wielding a hissing , blue , knife of fire that appeals to the caveman within . As for safety . Keep a fire extinguisher on hand . Do n't let kids or pets in the kitchen when you are playing with fire . Keep your home owner 's insurance current .
Sometimes . Basically , this is the same as asking if glass is oven safe : Generally , glass is oven-safe if taken from room temperature and put in a moderate-temperature , preheated oven . The key thing is to avoid temperature shocks ( which will cause the glass to shatter ) . Some glass is specifically designed for oven use ( either by being tempered or made of borosilicate glass ) . Often glassware will say if it is safe for oven use or not , and under what conditions -- check the packaging or instructions it came with . You also need to take precautions when removing glass from the oven . Do not set it on something that 'll conduct heat away rapidly , such as a wet countertop . Before heating glassware , inspect it for damage . Scratches , chips , etc. make failure much more likely . This applies to the microwave as well . Note that non-glass parts of microwave-safe glassware may not be oven safe . For example , if it has a plastic lid , that should generally not be used in the oven ( even though its OK in the microwave ) . edit : In response to your update , that oven is what would often be called a toaster or countertop oven . Those change temperature much more rapidly than a larger oven ( which can be electric as well ) . So , generally , you 'd avoid glass in them . But , your glass says it can be used over a flame , from the freezer . So it 's clearly one of the very shock-resistant ones , possibly borosilicate . I would n't expect it to be a problem . Just make sure to preheat the oven . Also , since you know who made it , you can of course contact the manufacturer to confirm .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
There are two problems here : Not enough heat reaching the wok/food due to limited contact surface . Part of the heating element not being in contact with a cooling metal ( pan/wok ) and the heat reflected back at it ( not escaping ) . This can result in a large temperature difference between the parts of the element that are in contact with the wok and parts that are not as well as over heating the element . You may still be able to use your wok on portable single burner gas stoves . Otherwise I 'd recommend heeding their advice and not using it on an electric stove . It wo n't make good food with little contact point anyway .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
end question
start question
What is flavor development ?
This is just fancy sounding talk for the myriad of techniques in good cooking that create good flavor in dishes . It does n't refer to any one specific thing . Some examples of techniques used to develop flavor include : Seasoning ( properly salting ) Browning meats and other foods properly to bring out their flavor Creating pan sauces or other uses from fond to enhance the flavor of a dish Using herbs and spices skilfully to compliment the food Balancing flavors with acidic ingredients like lemon juice or tomatoes Cooking properly to allow the flavor of individual ingredients to shine through Blooming or toasting spices to bring out their more aromatic qualities Using alcohol to enhance certain flavors not soluble in water or fat There are no doubt many , many more things that could be included in a list like this . After all , it sounds far more professional to say " the flavor in this dish is not well developed " than to say " this dish is bad . "
There are two main types of charcoal , briquettes and hard lump . The first comes in preformed pieces , so they are all the same size and include a filler material . They will sometimes also have lighter fluid in them already and be " easy start " or something similar . Hard lump is just charcoal from hardwoods with no filler . These will usually be in all kinds of shapes and look like " natural " pieces of wood ( albeit in charcoal form ) . Hard lump is easy to light , burns hotter , and leaves much less ash than briquettes . It also has a better flavor . I strongly recommend hard lump charcoal . Wood is usually used to provide smoke as a primary function rather than heat . Smoking on your grill gives a lovely smokey flavor ( d'uh ) . The standard way to use wood is to soak it in water for a period of time prior to cooking . Packages will often say to soak for an hour , and that 's ok with wood chips which are very small ( but I recommend longer ) , but it is n't good for anything larger . I generally soak wood for at least 18 hours . Wood also comes in various sizes , from very small chips ( slightly larger than a coin ) to large chunks bigger than a fist . The smaller the chips , the less heat they provide and the faster they burn up . These are generally better for shorter smoking times . Large chunks can smoke for 12 + hours if they are properly soaked . In both cases , I put the wood on to already burning coals to get them going . You can also use just wood to create your heat , in which case you do not soak the wood . When you hear about woodfire ovens , this is what they do . However , I think this is a hassle as it 's harder to get the wood lit than charcoal and does n't provide as much smoke since you have n't soaked the wood . So it 's really sub-par in my view . The exception is if you are doing low and slow smoking on some types of charcoal grill , you can use a small bed of coals to light large chunks of soaked wood . Once they get smoldering , this becomes the only source of heat as the coals go out . They smolder hot enough to get new wood going if you find you need more . Great for 12 hour smoking at 200F for Boston Butt or Brisket . In terms of wood , you want hard woods with low amounts of resin / sap . No glue , nails , etc. . It wants to be natural . This is a <URL> of types of wood and the smoke they produce . Common woods for BBQ in the SE US are hickory , mesquite , and cedar . I 've used old wine barrel chunks which have a really nice flavor , and also bits of rosemary branch ( thick from a large plant ) which did n't turn out as well as I 'd hoped . You can even use the shells of nuts like pecans . This is really a question of seeing what 's readily available and experimenting with your own personal taste . You can also use wood with a gas grill by putting it in a smoking box or tin foil with holes in it , and placing directly on the heating element . Wood chips work best for this . I 've never had much luck with this though . It 's hard to get the chips smoking and , more importantly , gas grills do n't have the airflow through them to properly move smoke over the food . I switched to charcoal pretty quickly and a <URL> about two years ago , and I 've never looked back .
Black Vinegar is basically what it 's called , and has a smoky and mellow flavor . It is made from rice , sometimes from glutinous rice and is sometimes used as a full-flavored but much cheaper balsamic vinegar . Hope this helps ! :)
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
Moist salts are naturally harvested sea salts from which not all the water has been removed . They are noticeably wet , often caking up or forming more of a " slush " than a powder . Some aficionados only believe that sea salt is " real " and " natural " if it is moist . Me , I have enough humidity in the apartment .
Spaetzle is basically a noodle . Throw together egg , flour and salt ( maybe some water to thin it out ) and force it through a mold . Anything with holes can be used as a mold ( for instance , I 've used my old metal colander and that would work fine ) . Once the dough is formed into little pieces ( it does n't usually hold together for long threads ) , put it in boiling water to cook for a few minutes and dress it to eat however you desire . Note : some people say Spaetzle is a noodle , some say a dumpling , I have no preference , I just call it tasty !
From a cooking perspective any imitation sauce or marinade is never going to deliver the quality that venison has to deliver . We have a massive deer farm close and the price is still ridiculous . My suggestion is that you find a good butcher that will age beef for you on the bone , or you could age it yourself if you have a climate control area to keep it at the correct temperature . Anything over 30 days on the bone will start to give you the gaming flavour you are craving . Nothing is going to match deer , but aged beef or really any type of cattle ( eg buffalo etc ) will give you the gaminess if it is aged . Restaurants are getting up to 180 days , which I could only imagine would melt in your mouth but the flavour would be intense .
The term " ground red pepper " is ambiguous in English . Things sold under that name in the US have a wide range of heats , and likely are made from multiple varieties of peppers , though I 'd say they 're more commonly hot things like cayenne , or other varieties with somewhat less heat . That said , do n't worry about it too much in these cases . Anything from mild paprika to cayenne would likely fit within what the authors meant , and you 're not going to harm a recipe by increasing or decreasing the heat , or by using a chile powder with a slightly different flavor . Just use something ( or a blend ) that provides the heat level you want , and you 'll be fine .
Bread Improver is a mix of various acids and enzymes that serve to strengthen the gluten in the flour and feed the yeast , both of which yield a better loaf . The idea is to give bread a similar texture and taste to sourdough-based loaves , without having to go through the laborious feeding process usually involved with that method . For more information , look at this <URL> article .
Raspberries are n't just seeds and juice , though they 're certainly not as fleshy as some fruits . The difference between apple puree ( apple sauce ) and apple juice is much more obvious . In any case , you should be fine forcing them through a sieve as you suggest .
This is most likely referring to honey processed without any heating , often simply called raw honey , or possibly cold-extracted or cold-processed . It likely has more flavor and color preserved than commercially-processed honey ( which uses plenty of heat ) , but it may not be much different from gently heated honey . It 's not actually cold ( honey flows really slowly when cold ) , just not heated . There are two primary ways honey would have been heated during processing . First and most common , most commercially sold honey has probably been heated substantially ( perhaps up to 165F ) to help melt crystals , allow impurities to separate , and to make sure everything 's dead and safe . This definitely does affect the honey - it makes the flavor a bit more mild , and the color a bit lighter . If you 're getting honey from a very small producer ( maybe someone with a hive in their yard ) , it 's also possible that they actually heated it in order to separate the honey from the beeswax . The most effective way to get honey out of the comb is to remove the caps and <URL> to spin the honey out of the frames , but for hobbyist beekeepers without access to an extractor who do n't want to just crush and strain it , another method is to heat the comb , letting the melted wax ( it melts around 145F ) float the top for easy separation . This is pretty gentle heating , and does n't have nearly as strong an effect as the commercial processes .
I do n't think roasting spices " improves " them or rejuvenates stale spices but it certainly does change the flavor profile in ways that may be desirable in some cases , for some spices , less so for other spices in other cases . This is common sense to me and also what I got out of the article . I think the heading of the article is too absolute for the content . Whether or not dry-roasting is " better " depends on which spices and what you are doing with them - how long they will be in the recipe , what else is going in , etc , and what flavor profile you are looking for . I think the article goes into a lot of detail about this and has some good references ( it looks like an interesting blog , thanks for sharing . ) For example , fresh , dried coriander seeds do n't taste the same as toasted coriander , and fresh , untoasted , whole cumin does n't taste like toasted/dry-roasted cumin . If you add it raw vs dry-roasted , in general you are going to impart a slightly different flavor profile to the dish . Some recipes are complex and/or delicate enough that this matters , and as the article notes , this will be specified in recipes from trusted sources . If you are making an uncooked chutney that you want to season with coriander seeds or fenugreek seeds , you need to toast them before grinding them if you want them to taste cooked . Or if you are seasoning your raita or lassi with cumin , it will probably taste better ( or more like what would be expected ) if you toast it . But " better " really just depends on what you are looking for . The author of the linked article talks about what flavors she wants to impart to her squash soup , and that is great . If it 's her recipe and her tastes , she should make it how she will enjoy it . But if you are trying to replicate a traditional recipe , you may want to follow the traditional methods for that dish at least the first time you do it , which may or may not use the spice how you are used to using it , it 's even possible that the traditional way wo n't taste as good to you as using them how you 're used to . So again , that 's fine , adapt the recipe , with the understanding that it may be a bit less traditional . That 's how we end up with fusion cuisines , like Indian-Chinese , or British-Indian or American-Italian , adapting traditional methods to new ingredients or to differing tastes and preferences . For the most part , in my Indian cooking , I rarely toast spices before adding them in unless I 'm making something where it is n't going to be cooked further . I had n't heard or been told that you " always " should roast all spices before grinding them . In fact , most of the Indian cooks I 've learned from use pre-ground spices for convenience , and I sometimes get weird looks from people in my generation when I make things less convenient and start from fresh , whole spices instead of spice blends . My point here is that there is sometimes a difference between what is ideal for a dish vs what is ideal for daily cooking . Both the daily " easy " method and the for-special-occasions-only multi-step preparation can be equally traditional for what is ostensibly the same dish .
I would read that to mean reducing to the point of it being syrupy . You can go with moderate heat until you sense it thickening , then you probably should turn it down to be very careful not to burn it . It 's the kind of thing that will seem a lot easier the second time you do it with the same recipe . Use your smallest saucepan . You probably wo n't need a whisk , but keep one handy just in case . A wooden spoon is probably your best implement . If at any point you feel like it 's getting away from you ( getting lumpy or otherwise weird ) , remove it from the heat and whisk it a bit . Usually recipes will say to reduce by half or two thirds , or it will say until you have a certain amount left . Since this one does n't , go with your gut . You 're done when it has thickened and will nicely flavor a pint of crème fraîche without making it watery . That term is used in recipes for Beurre Blanc ; look at this recipe from <URL> . It 's the same idea . Let us know how it goes . It 's an interesting question .
Yes , yes there is . Black truffles are dark , earthy , sexy in flavour . Renaissance writings compare them to ' unwashed slatterns ' and ' bedchambers , rooms of sexual congress , unaired and reeking of the recent activities contained therein . ' White truffles are lighter in aroma and flavour , with distinct garlicky notes . Each has their place -- black works better on its own , white works better as an adjunt or finishing note to a dish . I am personally partial to white truffle oil drizzled on cured duck breast , or a black truffle risotto with charred endive .
I would assume it 's a synonym for parchment paper . And yes , pan release is a generic term for any food release spray .
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
Fruit contains lots of water . When you take a piece of fruit at home and press it , you end up with sugars , vitamins and other solids dissolved in water . Let 's assume that 100 g of just-pressed juice has X g of water and 100-X g of juice . A manufacturer who sells juice can do several things . pasteurize the juice and sell it as-is . This is , and will often be labelled as " contains pulp " for citrus juices , or " naturally cloudy " for apple juice . filter the juice , then pasteurize and sell . This is again , sold as " clear " juice . Instead of just pasteurizing the juice , he may boil out Y g of water from the juice somewhere close to where the fruit is grown ( Y < X , trying to boil out enough water to get only the solids from the fruit will change the taste too much ) . This is called concentrate . It gets shipped to the packaging plant , where Y ml of pure water are added back before packaging . This is . The advantage from the manufacturer : he pays per weight for shipping between the juicing factory ( which can be somewhere in the tropics where fruit is cheap ) and the packaging plant ( which is close to where the customer lives ) . Not shipping tons of water saves lots of costs , and concentrate is less perishable than non-packaged juice . Water costs less than fruit juice . If a manufacturer adds 50 g water to 50 g fruit juice ( no matter whether from concentrate or not ) , this is a . Most customers expect a fruit juice to be sweet and slightly sour , so the manufacturer adds not just water , but water with sugar and acid in it ( mostly citric acid ) . A 96 % juice would be if the manufacturer adds only 4 g of water to 96 g of juice . as a final note , 100 % juice does not mean that the juice is only from the fruit given in the title . Apple and citrus juice is very cheap , but all other juices are expensive ( depending on area , there can be other cheap juices too ) . So , many manufacturers will sell 100 % juice which is in fact blended juice - if the package says " Sour cherry , 100 % juice " chances are that it is 25 % cherry juice and 75 % apple juice . Such combinations are given in fine print in the ingredients list , but AFAIK they are not legally required to list the exact ratio of juices used in a juice blend ( this will vary between legislations ) .
Here 's a picture of some raw ground beef from the Wikipedia <URL> article so that you can see for yourself . Basically it is beef that has been run through a meat grinder , great for making taco meat , hamburgers , and the like .
Sourdough bread is bread that has been all or partially risen with the help of wild yeast . It is made sour because of wild lactobacilli that are picked up with the wild yeast . Where the yeast eat sugar and produce CO2 for rising - the bacteria create acid and other compounds that make the bread sour and distinctly flavored . Because of the wild nature of the microbes , the bread will taste a little different in every place that it is made . The lactobacillus that gives San Fransisco sourdough bread its characteristic flavor is actually named Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis . The starter can be a hassle to make and to keep . It requires almost daily attention to feed it and can waste a fair amount of flour unless you bake bread frequently . You can freeze the starter but it will require a few days of feeding before it can be used again . Many baked recipes besides bread are also delicious with sourdough starter . Sourdough waffles or coffeecake are fantastic . Whether it is worth the effort is a personal decision . Many people do n't like the flavor and you would have to love the flavor enough to make almost every bread with that flavor to justify the starter upkeep . Personally - I used to keep a starter but my kids do n't like the flavor and I got tired of all my bread tasting the same . I just buy a loaf for the 2-3 times a year that I am craving a Reuben sandwich .
The dried powder in a can is your best bet , short of grating a fresh root . Though an overlingering burn is n't your thing , try pinch of cayenne in the wasabi mix to lend sweetness and more ka-boom . Generous wasabi and some <URL> are my favorite sushi companions .
end question
