start question
Triple finger tap for middle click ?
You can try <URL> . There might be a setting to do that . Maybe you 'll even find another gesture to triple-click that you 'll like better .
Open in Chrome Service You can make a Service in 10.6 or 10.7 using Automator that will open a selected URL in Chrome . Here 's how : Open Automator When Automator asks you to Choose a type for your document window , select Service Change the " Service receives selected " drop-down to " URLs " Add a Run AppleScript action ( found under the Automator Library , or just search ) by dragging from the left pane to the right Copy the code below to the text field ( replacing all the existing text ) Save and give the service a name ( it will be added automatically to the services menu ) Code : This will open any selected URL in Safari or other application in Chrome , either in a new tab in the most recent window , or a new window if there is no open Chrome window . To access it , right-click and under the Services item at the bottom of the menu , you should see an item with the name you assigned . One important caveat : OS X seems to be a bit picky/buggy about passing link to this sort of service . It works fine if you have text selected as a URL , but it only seems to work on some links . If I discover a better method , I 'll update this post with it . You may also need to restart Safari for the service to appear .
The best way to do this is with one of the more obscure settings in BetterTouchTool It works like this : A three fingered right swipe brings up the application switcher . Lift one finger to covert it into a two finger swipe and slide to whichever application you want . It becomes an incredible natural and fluid gesture The beauty of the gesture is that it works anywhere on the screen and you do n't have to position the mouse over the icons . In BTT assign the three finger swipe right to the application switcher . In BTT Action Settings - > Stuff ( App Switcher ) - > Use special application switcher This answers the problem that bisko and senseful had above and avoids the last click or the necessity to be over the icon . Single best gesture in my ' gesture vocabulary ' and I have gestures for everything !
I believe the wake on click issue has more to do with the pointing devices shipping with the preponderance of new Mac systems : wireless keyboards , mice or trackpads for desktops and laptops . There are two potential reasons for a click : To maximize battery power , wireless keyboards , mice and trackpads power down when not in use -- just like computers . Today 's mice are all optical ( laser or otherwise ) and they turn off the light sources when asleep . The device does not register a movement until awakened . Wired mice might still wake a computer on movement . I also do n't believe the computer sees a difference when " waking " from any of the low power states available to it , be it a dimmed screen , a screen in lowest power state , or the computer " sleeping " . A device " click " initiates full power mode .
I found this tool called BetterTouchTool <URL> BetterTouchTool is a great , feature packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse , Macbook Trackpad and Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice . It also allows you to configure actions for keyboard shortcuts , normal mice buttons and the Apple Remote . In addition to this it has an iOS companion App ( BTT Remote ) which can also be configured to control your Mac the way you want . It allows me to set a HUGE variety of actions for TONS of mouse gestures . I am able to create actions for FORCE click on specific areas of the trackpad , and even multifinger force click . It is exactly what I 've been looking for . It is extremely useful .
<URL> used to be the go-to tool for this kind of task , but it can not handle Core Storage volumes , which makes it a bit limited these days . Paragon have just brought out a new <URL> which I have yet to try out for myself , but looks like it 's the long-awaited successor to iPartition . Personally , I do n't think the interface looks as good , but you ca n't have everything ;-) Both apps require you to boot from an external device to work on the boot drive , of course . Paragon has a built-in boot drive creator , I ca n't remember whether iPartition does [ it had a CD maker , back in the day , but I 've not used it in quite a while ] For your particular scenario - I 'd clone off one of the Mac partitions , re-partition as a single Mac volume [ plus EFI/Recovery of course ] then let Bootcamp do its regular setup . Afterwards , resize then add a new partition to clone your 2nd OS X back to .
Just by typing the first letters of the user 's name should select that user . Afterwards , as you say , pressing Enter will prompt for the password .
Yes , there is no column for that . And most files are in the iTunes library itself - as it copies them by default .
Uncheck the box : I found it unnatural , too , since they flipped it . I think they 're going for consistency between iPads and mice .
In this case , it was caused by Spotify . It may have something to do with the ads that refresh every 10 seconds , but it started happening immediately after I opened it a minute ago , the 3-month hiatus ended the day I reinstalled it , and it usually happens in about hour-long increments , about how long I usually have Spotify open . I 'm now 100 % sure of this , it directly correlates with when the app is open or closed . It 's strange , though , the window I 'm in does n't appear to lose focus , and this even happens when clicking on something in Spotify , but Spotify is what 's causing it beyond a doubt .
Unfortunately for you , the answer is : you ca n't . The way the Mac OS X Menu Bar is set up , Application Menus get added starting in the left hand corner ( after the Apple menu ) and going right ; System and 3rd party Menu Extras get added from the right hand corner and go left . There 's no way to absolutely position a menu on the menu bar ; you can only change the order of the items . As Tony mentioned in his answer , the user can reorder <URL> by dragging them while holding Command . Only the developer of an app can reorder the Application 's menus . But there 's no way to position anything in the center .
<URL> Touchpose is a very simple Cydia tweak that will show finger positions on screen . Requirements : firmware ( > = 4.0 ) , mobilesubstrate , libactivator , preferenceloader
2 . move some of the tv shows to an external disk and help him restore when needed If your boss has another Mac or PC running iTunes , he can set up Home Sharing and move content back and forth from his MacBook as needed . This option is appealing because it 's contained within iTunes and does n't involve manually copying files and deleting/re-adding them to the iTunes library .
I know its over a year later , but I had the same question , and then figured out the answer myself . Open terminal and type Then you can have it enabled system wide , and just disabled for chrome . By the way , this works for any app , just replace com.google.Chrome with the bundle identifier of the target app . If your interested in how it works , the AppleEnableSwipeNavigateWithScrolls is the global setting , that can be overwritten for any specified app . Hope this helps someone in the future .
A tool that might just help you is <URL> . With it , you can read the mouse position using the command , move the mouse using the command , and click using the command . This is a bit of a hack , really , but regarding the multi-monitor support , you can use <URL> , where you can programmatically call Cliclick with the coordinates of the mouse in a different monitor . I 'm sure there are other alternatives , though . I also used Slate to bind the other first calls to Cliclick . The " mouse mode " is a bit tougher . In Slate you can create " modal hotkeys " pressing two hotkeys in succession ( like ^ W in Vim ) , but no support for whole modes . You could , however , dynamically edit the binding file to contain " normal mode " or " mouse mode " bindings each time you change the mode . I did something similar yesterday , so hope this helps . :)
Big list of Portable Mac Apps here <URL> <URL> And if you use Google , you 'd find those , and many many other sites ...
There are a lot of pro photographers who 've started using the iPad for their first pass of editing . Vincent Laforet , who is highly respected wrote about his use of them at " <URL> " . Also " <URL> " has some suggestions .
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
An alternate OS is <URL> . It is a free firmware replacement that works on many music players . Rockbox supports : iPod 1g through 5.5 g , iPod Mini , iPod Nano 1g and iPod Nano 2g One downside to Rockbox is that you have to make your iPod a Windows formatted partition on a Windows computer . There are many different <URL> . Here 's an example of just one :
end question
start question
Is it possible to type in macron ( e.g. " ā " ) without using U.S. Extended Keyboard ?
Keep US Extended and use it to type your å . It 's alt + k and then a.
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
The " ~ " key is located between the " left shift " and " Z " keys on the international english keyboard . Many users are used to have this key under the escape key ( the US layout ) , and they ( including me ) use the <URL> software to swap those keys . Edit : KeyRemap4MacBook is now called <URL> . Here is a screenshot of the configuration I 'm using to remap Section to Backquote key . <URL> Edit : <URL> does not work on macOS Sierra , however a new project is in development : <URL> . As of now , it can do the replacement in question : <URL>
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
I used <URL> ( PDF ) to cut my normal SIM into microSIM format . It was very easy to follow and it works perfectly !
There is an <URL> . You do n't need to keep a sim in the phone but you need to put one into it to activate it before taking it back out . Here 's the procedure for 3G and 3GS : You can use any SIM card associated with the carrier that your device supports to activate the phone . Simply place a SIM card from the last carrier with which you used your iPhone into the device , and activate it . Then remove the SIM card . You can now use the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS as you would an iPod touch ( Wi-Fi only , no cellular service ) . Note : You can use the activated SIM card from your new iPhone to do this . To re-activate an iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS that displays the " Connect to iTunes " screen : Insert a SIM card from the carrier with which you used your phone . Note : If you are using the same carrier , you can use the activated SIM card from your new device to do this . If your device is unlocked by your carrier , you can use any SIM card . Connect the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS to iTunes on a computer connected to the Internet . iTunes will then activate the device . You can remove the SIM card at this point and use the iPhone as if it were an iPod touch .
Check out the command . You can get detailed information about its use by reading its man entry An in-depth article on the command is <URL> .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
Unlike previous attempts at OS X resolution independence , HiDPI mode has a fixed 2x scaling factor . There 's no way to change that scale factor , nor would I expect things to work well even if you could . In fact , prior to 10.7.3 or .4 , HiDPI still had some bugs here and there . There 's a <URL> in John Siracusa 's Lion review at Ars Technica if you want a bit more detail .
In OpenOffice and LibreOffice , you go to Format > AutoCorrect > AutoCorrect Options > Localized Options and uncheck the boxes for Replace under Single Quotes and Double Quotes .
No . The credit shown in the Mac App Store or iTunes App Stores is not spendable from the retail stores or the online store . There is a physical gift card that can be bought for online store or retail store use , but it 's not the same bucket of funds as the iTunes store gift cards . See <URL> for more details ...
I look at the speech ( and thought ) bubble feature in Preview as a nice little extra that provides basic functionality . Unfortunately , at least as of 10.7.3 Lion , text justification is n't an option . If your needs ( or wants ) go beyond the basics you may be interested in comic creation software like Plasq 's <URL> .
Yes , its called " closed clamshell " mode . In short , you 'll need to attach your MBA to a mouse , a keyboard and power : <URL>
Based on reading <URL> page , it appears to be technically possible to build Chrome OS for PowerPC . ( They do mention that V8 wo n't work , but that implies that most everything else does . ) Getting it to be the primary OS and boot , however , is the tricky part . I suggest partitioning the hard drive to dual-boot between OS X and Chrome OS ( at least initially ) so you have a known-good system . You may also have trouble with the drivers .
Have you tried <URL> ? They say that it lets you easily share your mouse and keyboard between multiple computers on your desktop . There are some <URL> which show how it works .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
The <URL> will do this . There are a number of other solutions mentioned at <URL> .
end question
start question
Whats the 35mm focal length equivalent of an iPhone 5s ?
There is a great study of iPhone camera in this article . <URL>
This can be easily calculated with the available information . Since screen dimensions are always specified as the diagonal measurement , the rectangle can be divided into two equal right-angled triangles , with the hypotenuse being the diagonal measurement and the aspect ratio of the display providing inputs for the calculation of the height and width . iPhone 4S Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 3:2 and can be calculated from the resolution - 960 x 640 pixels ; 960/640 = 1.5 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 74.05 mm by 49.37 mm . iPhone 5s Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 16:9 and can be calculated from the resolution - 1136 x 640 pixels ; 1136/640 = 1.775 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 87.12 mm by 49.08 mm .
I 'm using since years the app CallTell available on cydia ( so available only for jailbroken devices ) . I 've tried it on iPhone 3GS , 4,4 s and now 5 and it worked fine , even though since I 've updated to iOS 6.0.1 I 'm having some bugs on it , the reason why I was here looking around if there is another app doing the same job ... but I really encourage you guys to try it if you have none . The app does n't add an icon on your home screen , is set up on the device settings screen . The app speaks call , messages ( caller and/or text ) and even applications notifications . All of these things can the configured on silent , ringing of both modes . You can put it on , off and even configure the text to speak before the name
You can use Ctrl + F2 , which moves the focus to the symbol in the menu bar . Then use the arrow keys to move around , or just type the start of a menu name to highlight it . With a menu name highlighted , hit Space to expand it . In an open menu , you can type the start of a menu item to highlight it . Once highlighted , press Space again to " click " it . So , to get to " Save for Web &amp; Devices " in Photoshop , you could press Ctrl + F2 , F , Space , Enter , S , ↓ until you focus " Save for Web &amp; Devices " , then Space . Of course , the built-in keyboard shortcut for that option is much easier to type : ⌥ + ⇧ + ⌘ + S.
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
There are slight improvements to the battery capacities of the 5S and 5C over the 5 . iPhone 5 - 1440mAh < - 5.45 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5c - 1508mAh < - 5.73 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5s - 1558mAh < - 5.92 Whr at 3.8 V <URL> In terms of battery life comparison for 5 vs. 5c vs. 5s , they ran some benchmarks in <URL> . In some tasks the 5c/5s are better than the 5 , in others the 5 is better . With the exception of their Wifi browsing test , the new phones are comparable to the 5 , with there being less than an hour difference in battery life . In the Wifi browsing test though , the new phones ran out of juice .57 hours sooner ( 5c ) and 1.3 hours sooner ( 5s ) .
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
udev does n't exist on OS X . As an alternative , you can use the command to continuously monitor disks being mounted or ejected . The man page says Continuously display system-wide disk manipulation activity as reported by the Disk Arbitration framework until interrupted with a signal ( e.g. by typing Control-C ) . This can be useful to watch system-wide activity of disks coming on-line or being ejected , volumes on disks being mounted or unmounted , volumes being renamed , etc. . Whilst running the above command and plugging in ( then removing ) my WD Elements USB drive , I get this output , which could be parsed ( even though the man page says not to ) to find , say , and to get the volume name and when the disk was added and removed .
It could possibly be harmful if the phone overheats , though I spent several months with an older iPhone between my pillow and the bed , plugged in and charging , and never had any problems . Other than that , no .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
You can use the standard that the Mac OSX comes with to find pmtu . shoud do the trick . Please note , the size is just the ICMP datagram payload size . To see the IP MTU , you need to add 8 bytes of the ICMP header and 20 bytes of the IP header ( so for example , to send 1500 Bytes long IP packet , you need to specify size as 1472 ) . Please note , is important here , as it sets the Dont-Fragment flag on . You can also use to run a ping sweep . This pings your host with packets starting from up to in increments . Again , same rule applies to your sizes - these are just for ICMP payload ( so you need to add 28 Bytes to the size specified here for the full IP MTU size ) . What you 're looking for is an ICMP unreachable message back with a " Fragmentation needed but Do n't Fragment flag on " sub-type back . The IP address of the sender of the above ICMP message is the host or router which has its MTU set to lower than the size of your packet , on the link which it would use to forward your packet further towards the destination . Please note as well , that sometimes ( badly misconfigured ) firewalls or traffic filters will block all ICMP messages and in such case , you 'll just see no response . To test which host dropped the packet , you could run traceroute to your destination and then repeatedly ping every hop on the way with ' - D' and a size or a sweep to discover the local MTU of the link that hop is connected to . It will be the link between the last host you can ping and the first host you ca n't that will have a smaller MTU . Again - this is all subject to routers handling ICMP , which they might not . The PMTUD ( Path MTU Discovery ) protocol works in the same fashion . It uses TCP packets with DF flag on . The TCP sessions endpoints agree on their MSS ( Maximum Segment Size , which is MTU less IP and TCP headers , 40B ) - they choose the smaller of the MSS values advertised by each host in the TCP handshake . Then they send all traffic with DF flags on , and wait for the ICMP unreachable or a TCP ACK . The latter means the PMTU is sufficient , the former mean they need to drop MSS . Hope that helps !
<URL> , somebody did it with success . Worked flawlessly for me I just activated my new iPhone 3GS and then iTunes offered to either set it up as a new iPhone or to restore it from my iPod Touch backup which I did . No problems so far ...
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
From my experience , 3.1.3 is indeed the best version for iPhone 3G , if you do n't want any new or updated app . I 've installed 4.2 on an iPhone 3G and it does become slower , though not so bad . If you put <URL> , you 'll see the 3 outperforming the 4 for most tasks ( other than some native multi-tasking maybe ) . Other than the slightly faster performance , the best iOS for any iDevice is the latest one , like wjlafrance said . Unless it is jailbroken , I ca n't tell what could possibly make iOS 3 slow . On iOS 4 it is only multitasking that can harm the performance AFAIK . Same issue with jailbreaking - gets slow if you install too much stuff running on the background . And an old device will suffer aging impact only on the battery . Hopefully a fresh restore would solve the " sluggish " but I 'm afraid it might not . Anyway you can easily * downgrade without jailbreaking . On 3G , you just * need the <URL> , <URL> and option + click on Restore from iTunes . * It is that simple , but there is more to it and it can become complicated . If you need more details , try <URL> or this another <URL> .
Here is what we know : The iPhone 5c is for sale unlocked in the US at launch . The iPhone 5s is not for sale unlocked in the US at launch . It is unlocked at launch in many countries including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. . . The last phone launch had no 5c / 5s comparison ( unless you want to ignore the 5c and assume the 5s is handled identically to the 5 at launch . ) The iPhone 5 launch was <URL> and <URL> , you <URL> a <URL> . I would recommend you get confirmation that T-Mobile will unlock their contract-free but locked phone after a fixed amount of time or money , and get that in writing before you buy a US phone that is n't unlocked if you really need an unlocked iPhone . In informal discussions today , I was told that two months of service needs to be maintained before you can ask for an unlock , but I did n't get it in writing and ca n't find any mention of it on T-Mobile 's web site . Realize that any mobile carrier has limited devices and wo n't really want to sign up someone that will increase their churn rate and not be a " paying subscriber " when it comes time for them to report their quarterly subscriber counts .
end question
start question
Can the formula bar font in Excel 2011 be changed ?
<URL> Seems like " no " for 2011 . Grr . . very frustrating !
This small application runs in the background and shows the current IP dddress of your Mac in the menu bar . There are options available to customize the appearance of the menu entry . The IP dddress is updated regulary . Switch on the Router option if you are behind a router or gateway . You can still see your local IP address in the menu . <URL> Do you need your computers IP address often ? If so , IPMenulet is likely the quickest way to have the number handy all the time , it 's a free and simple menu item that displays your current external IP address in the Mac OS X menu bar , there 's no other frills or features . You can download IPMenulet now ( direct . dmg download -- link changed visit dev site instead ) or visit the developers website here for more information and to view the simple tools source code . <URL> And the associated Google Search : <URL>
The font used in the Console.app on macOS Sierra is the font . This can be found in More versions can be found in Xcode8 directories for example here :
The memory for the MacBook Pro 8,1 ; 8,2 and 8,3 is the same as for the iMac 12,1 and 12,2 . Just as a point of clarity , the models possible are : Early 2011 MacBook Pro Late 2011 MacBook Pro Mid 2011 iMac Late 2011 iMac
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
Office 2011 requires activation and is tied to your hardware so it might very well be that you need to reactivate Office 2011 after the HD change . The whole activation procedure is described in <URL> . According to this document , the product key was mailed to you in a mail with subject " Microsoft Office for Mac -- Order Confirmation " .
It can be enabled via System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > [ Unlock ] > Login Options > Show fast user switching menu as ...
The last version of the OS to use this font as default was <URL> . For Mac OS 8 , Apple decided to discard this wonderful part of their brand 's identity , and commissioned David Berlow of the Font Bureau to design Charcoal . Apple actually released System 7 for free download <URL> . Conceivably you could load up System 7 in an emulator like <URL> and get the font out somehow . Or unpack the system images provided by Apple , though I do n't know which software you would need for that . Apple abandoned Chicago as of OSX , as evidenced by the outrage <URL> . Locally , I can buy an original iMac running OS 9 for 50 EUR . So you could buy one of those and transfer the font :-) UPDATE : extracting Chicago from System 7 Download the System 7 disk image from Apple for free <URL> Unpack System 7.0.1 . smi.bin with " The Unarchiver.app " ( free on the App Store <URL> ) Convert System 7.0.1 . smi to a dmg image using Disk Utility using the menu item ' Images > Convert ' Open the resulting System 7.0.1 . smi.dmg and get the Fonts.image inside Convert Fonts.image to a dmg using Disk Utility Open the resulting Fonts.image.dmg Enjoy your retro goodness .
Yes , you can . Good thing you do n't care about your warranty though . <URL>
To rearrange columns alphanumerically by their names , assuming the column names are in row 1 , do this : Select all cells of the table . ( Click and drag from top left cell to bottom right cell . ) Click the thin arrow button next to the ' Sort ' button and choose . In the Sort dialog box , click , and in the pop-up , choose to . Back in the main dialog box , un-check ' My list has headers ' . in Row : select ; in Sort On : select ; and in Order : select . Click OK to execute . ( based on Excel 2011 )
@Gerry was right : there was dust or lint in the jack that was preventing the headphones from fully seating . I could n't see it , but I used the end of a floss pick to clean it out and that fixed it . The headphones stay in so snugly now that I can actually lift the phone by pulling on them ( not that I would do that normally ; I just wanted to confirm it really worked ! ) . Amazing that just a little bit of dust could make all the difference . I 'm just relieved that the phone itself was n't damaged somehow since it 's out of warranty .
To create an account in the Users folder Create and set the shell property to bash . Create and set the user 's full name . ( Displayed in some of the panels/login screen ) Create and set the user 's ID . ( this is the unique id , you need to find out what id your last user create was and add one ) Create and set the user 's group ID property . ( This can be your default group ) Create and set the user home directory . Set the password . ( dont use password as a password ) Some more details can be found on <URL>
Pressandhold.app should be in exactly the same place in Yosemite that it was in Mavericks . I just checked on both my Macs that I upgraded to Yosemite . exists exactly where it should . And to try to confirm whether this is a holdover from Mavericks ( since both my Macs were upgraded from Mavericks to Yosemite ) I checked the Info.plist with the PressAndHold.app bundle . It lists " 10.10 " as the LSMinimumSystemVersion and " macosx10 .10 internal " as the DTSDKName both of which indicate Yosemite . So please check that folder on your Mac again . I 'd be very surprised if that folder was empty .
There are several apps for extracting backups . The one I have used is <URL> , it 's been around for a while now and it is freeware , just make a donation if you find it useful to help the developer keep it updated . You simply select from which backup you want to restore by pressing the button " Read Backups " , then select from the list of application settings that can be restored . There is a detailed step by step guide <URL>
Snow Leopard 's CharacterPalette.app still works on 10.7 : Those " iOS symbols " shown in the screenshot above are glyph variants that are specific to Apple Symbols . For example the turned arrow icon is a variant of Ꮿ . There does n't seem to be any way to show them in 10.7 's Character Viewer . You could also use Font Book to save a PDF file for all characters in a font :
So let 's go through the options here : No effect . <URL> It auto hides . <URL> Yup , auto hides too . <URL> Guess what ? : / While searching around though , I found a great deal of people asking how they force the bar to autohide . It 's a <URL> in editorials as well , and seems to be the one constant of all the Safari extensions . After an extensive search - what you 're looking for does not exist at this time :( Hardly the first time Apple has taken away control from a user , either ... Tl ; dr : Apologies , but it 's time to let it go - it 's gone . <URL> HOWEVER ... One of the extensions I found is open source and appears to be easily editable . Specifically , <URL> , and by removing a line of JS , I can force the bar to stay on the screen , and replace it with blank text ( so it looks correctly ) . Here 's the thing , it 's still just an overlay on top of the page , it 's not a part of the safari " window " as the old status bar could be , and does n't show all of the same information either . <URL> <URL> . You can see the <URL> as well . Installing this requires jumping through an extra hoop since I 'm not a registered Apple dev , so here 's what you need to do . Download and extract the package . In Safari , go to Preferences - > Advanced Check the " Show Develop menu in menu bar " box In the newly added menu bar item , click on " Show Extension Builder " Click on the plus sign in the bottom left of the new window and hit " Add extension " Navigate to where you unzipped the . safariextension folder Accept the security warning Reload any open webpages Usual disclaimers apply , your mileage may vary , void where prohibited , kids eat free , etc. .
I recommend and use <URL> ( donation-ware ) . It 's much more flexible than what Apple provides .
The first step is to look at the detailed battery information from the System Information/System Profiler for each battery . Pay attention to the Full Charge Capacity and cycles for each battery . The second step ( assuming my guess that you have a non-unibody Mac where the battery is user-replaceble - swappable without removing the bottom of the Mac ) is to run a <URL> on the new battery ( and followed by the old one perhaps to compare ) . Once your computer gets to know the new battery ( it guesses based on average battery performance until it determines the chemistry particular to each battery that gets used over time ) . The third step if you really want to measure everything on both batteries is to use the <URL> command to document each battery as it powers your Mac from full to the low power shut off point . Here is the relevant section from the man page linked above :
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
end question
start question
Can I use my Mac to re-create an inverted audio noise cancellation effect ?
Audacity can do this as far as I know . There is a White Noise generator , and under the Effects menu there is a " Noise Removal " option . I do n't know if you can do it in realtime , but you could make a short recording of the ambient noise , run the Noise Removal , figure out what got removed ( subtract before and after ) , and then play that part but inverted . Maybe ...
If it 's a 2005-2009 model then NO ! You absolutely can not plug directly from a AC power source to a computer that does not have a built in transformer power supply , which the Mac mini 2005-2009 model does not have . The AC current must be converted to DC current first and that is what the Mac mini 's power supply does . Starting in 2010 the Mac mini used a built-in power supply and the power cord does not use a power brick like in previous modles , it plugs directly from wall to computer .
Yes . I use it on Mountain Lion . Details here : <URL> . It 's not clear to me how Contacts.app is merging Google/iCloud duplicates that arise if you use iCloud , or handling editing of those duplicates . There 's no support for Google Group/Tag relationships or Mac Group/Tag relationships . Nobody has gotten it working on Snow Leopard , though if you want to try that ( do publish ) Hsiaoi 's technique is a good start ( <URL> ) . I suspect SSL is a problem . I believe it also works on Lion but I 've not tested .
Yes it does , but the review times are much faster . I just submitted an update and it was reviewed and live within 5 days ( counting the weekend ) .
Unfortunately , a lot of the graphics on the MacBook Pro with Retina Display are a bit choppy ( for example , scrolling and window resizing ) . The new rMBP simply has a lot of pixels , and the graphics card is no better than the one in the regular MBP . In the next few years we can probably expect this to improve with further software optimizations and better hardware offerings . See also : <URL> ( MacRumors ) <URL> ( AnandTech )
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
Yes , this would be known . First , the old Apple TV wo n't be getting the update ( since its now iOS based ) , and therefore wont support airplay . Not sure of any workarounds for an old Apple TV that use the actual AirPlay standard . A hack may exist after 4.2 has been out for a while , but I think most people decided to just move to the new Apple TV instead .
Your best bet is reverse engineering the existing Transitions if you investment in time costs less than the $ 50 for Motion which is the official tool for making custom transition effects . Look in and the transition file is simply an xml file with the . motr file extension : Also , you could hire someone that has paid for Motion to make a trivial transition and test that it works for your needs . That would n't help if your true goal is to engineer how it works and understand the tool , though .
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
I assume you 're talking about on your Mac since you do n't specify . Yes you can do this but in all likelihood , you wo n't see much other than your internet connection probably wo n't work . Most ISPs ( Internet Service Providers ) are not yet ready to handle IPv6 traffic and many wo n't be right up to <URL> . Many wo n't be ready beyond then either . But it wo n't do any harm to try it out if that 's what you 're worried about . As an aside , the <URL> . To turn IPv4 off go to System Preferences > Network > Advanced > TCPIP Then on the drop-down list next to ' Configure IPv4 ' select the ' Off ' Option . Then beneath that , you can set the ' Configure IPv6 ' drop down menu to whatever you want .
The <URL> and the <URL> does not mention target display mode as a feature . That unfortunately means that the Early 2009 generation of iMacs did not offer a target display mode so you will not be able to use that displayport output as an input source .
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
Should be possible with <URL> , but I 've only personally used it to send audio between two Macs . They have a Windows version as well , though .
Unfortunately <URL> Best bet is external software OR Final Cut Pro 7 has numerous plugins that reduce noise and grain , but they are all very expensive .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
If the song/sound you want to use is n't already in your iTunes library , add it to your iTunes library first . If you want to use just a part of the song/sound , right click it , select " Get Info " , then " Options " tab , and enter a start and stop time there . Remember , ringtones ca n't be over 40 seconds ! On the File menu , select " Convert " > " Create AAC Version " . If you do n't have this option , go to Edit , Preferences , General tab , and click the Import Settings button . Make sure the import setting is set to " iTunes Plus " ( AAC ) . This will create a new file in your iTunes library . Delete it from your iTunes library now , but be sure to check " keep file " in the delete dialog so the file itself is n't removed , just the library entry . Navigate to where the file was created on disk , somewhere like Rename the file from to Drag and drop this file into the Ringtones folder of your iTunes ( or , just double-click it and iTunes will handle it automatically ) . Sync your iPhone . Make sure that " Sync Ringtones " is selected in the phone sync options ( mine was off by default ) . After syncing , you can select your new ringtone in Settings , Sounds at the Custom section at the top .
You can disable the XProtect updates in , and there uncheck the box " Automatically update safe downloads list . " Now you can change the version info in
<URL> can do this . Select " Streaming/Transcoding Wizard " from the File menu . Choose " Transcode/Save to file " . On the next page click " Choose " and open your AC3 file . On the next page tick " Transcode audio " and choose " MPEG 4 Audio " and choose the desired bitrate . Click " Next " , choose " MPEG 4 / MP4 " , click " Next " again and " Choose ... " where to save the file . " Next " and " Finish " . The file VideoLAN creates has the extension . mp4 , change it to . m4a and there you go .
I do n't believe you can do this with the stock phone , however if you decide to jailbreakyour iPhone , you could use an application like <URL> to share your iPhone 's 3G connection over WiFi
end question
start question
How to specify that cover art for a video in iTunes should be a frame from a specific time in the video ?
The frame that 's used is called the " Poster Frame " . It looks like iTunes chooses a frame 10 seconds into the video by default . To choose a specific frame as the cover art : Start playing the video . Pause the video on the frame you want to use . Right-click on the video and choose " Set Poster Frame " .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
Executive summary : I do n't believe this is possible , at least not for volumes formatted as HFS + . My current understanding is that HFS + chooses its file system block size ( separate from the physical device block size ) according to a fixed <URL> that can not be manually overruled . Discussions in other forums spanning from 2002 to 2011 ( <URL> , <URL> among others ) suggest using <URL> , which has a option , to manually set the block size when creating a new file system . I tried using on various kinds of partitions , on both . dmg diskimages and on physical SATA hard drives ( through SATA < - > USB interface ) and with various file systems ( HFS + , FAT16 , FAT32 . ) When I ran with different - b sizes ( 512 , 1024 , 2048 , 4096 , 8192 , ) indeed it reported success in creating the filesystems with the specified block sizes . I could mount &amp; read/write these volumes normally . But when I examine the test volumes with ( where is disk1 , disk4 , or whatever your disk is ) , I always see : Noting that the end of the man page includes this tidbit : It would appear that OS X 10.8 ( and probably 10.7 , and perhaps earlier versions ) overrides whatever block size claims to create , in favor of default sizes imposed by a higher authority . ( ?? ) One article I came across suggested using OS X 's software-RAID utility to create a RAID mirror . Software RAID allows one to specify a RAID stripe size , but as this is generally geared towards improving throughput for large files rather than tiny ones , I believe the minimum RAID stripe size is 4KB - not useful for your purposes .
<URL> z264 will look at every file , but will only touch avi , flv , mpg , mpeg , wmv , vob , mkv and mp4 video files , copying video and audio streams and rewrapping if possible , transcoding just the audio if necessary , and transcoding only what video is necessary , and leave you with iTunes friendly , atom optimized mp4 files , leaving the originals in your Trash . It makes reasonably intelligent decisions for you about how to transcode files based on how you set its <URL> variables ( set at lines 312-333 ) . check file for AVC encoding and flv , wmv , or mkv wrapper and rewrap in mp4 container otherwise , if not already am mp4 , transcode to AVC mp4 z264 has several dependencies ( mediainfo , rmtrash , ffmpeg , SublerCLI , and HandBrakeCLI ) copy and paste binary install section into a new bash script and use it to download and install the dependencies into / usr/local/bin / ( create / usr/local and / usr/local/bin / if not there already ) create 2GB ramdisk called ' Two ' using command in ramdisk section double-check command definitions ( locations of dependencies ) , and correct locations ( to " / usr/local/bin / " ) save as z264 in / usr/local/bin / make executable sudo chmod + x / usr/local/bin / z264 use Terminal to call z264 on single file , directory of files , or call it from a cron to crawl entire file systems periodically minor issues : user needs to be able to read , debug , and use bash . z264 does not yet count how many background_transcoder processes it spawns , meaning if there are a lot of transcodes , it will take awhile for them to complete , but they will complete . You also need a lot of memory ( 8GB is ok ) . Snow Leopard users will need to install <URL> command from xcode developer tools .
This is actually insanely simple : Open iTunes and go into your music library . Click on a song to ensure focus is inside the song list , press ⌘ a to select all your songs , then press ⌘ c to copy them . Open the text editor of your choice , anything should do , then ⌘ v paste your songs ! Ét Voíla , all your songs listed in plain text .
I have the C910 and it 's totally working on my Mac Pro and my MacBook Air . QuickTime can record 1080p , as well as iMovie/FinalCut should . There is no necessarity for drivers or additional software to get this working on your Mac .
Easiest way is to use Image Capture from OS X You can use it to Import too , to any app that can import pictures , or to a folder location . Select any pictures you wish to delete &amp; hit the ' no entry ' sign to trash from your device
<URL> by Apple not only one of the most fully featured encoders around and fully supports multiple threads , it even supports distributed encoding so that more than one Mac can work on a single job .
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
The answer boils down to how much work the compression algorithm can do to squeeze the file down , and how much quality loss you are willing to tolerate . Dark Knight on Blu-ray uses VC-1 encoding at 24Mbps , and it 's around 27GB on disk . Good thing BDs have so much room ! The goal is to give really good quality . The iPhone encodes things around 17Mbps ( according to the file I just checked ) using h. 264 with the High@L4.1 profile . It has to encode things in real-time because it ca n't stream the raw video to flash . Doing things in real-time limits the amount of work the compressor can do and results in higher file size than slower compression . The iPhone could probably choose to degrade the quality of the video in order to get smaller files , but since you can never get quality back , it makes sense to keep quality there at the beginning . The BD rips you 're talking about have two things in their favor . One is that people are willing to accept a much lower quality than the BD in order to shrink the file size . Also , they have plenty of time to compress the files , so they can easily compress at half or quarter real time . That lets the compression algorithms find a lot more ways to shrink the file size without degrading quality . If you want to store the iPhone videos yourself for later viewing , you can certainly transcode them yourself and shrink them . You probably would not want to use the results for a <URL> but they would be perfectly good for keeping memories .
Please try it with <URL> , see <URL> in the Videolan wiki .
In iTunes select the song and press & #x 2318 ; + I to Get Info . Go to the tab Artwork and press & #x 2318 ; + C to copy the Artwork . Open . Select File & #x 2192 ; New from Clipboard from the menu or press & #x 2318 ; + N Save the file to a custom location . ( , , , , ... )
Yes . You just need the right video and audio adapters . Apple sells two adapters to connect your MacBook 's Mini DisplayPort to <URL> or <URL> . Neither of those will include audio , so you 'll also need to get audio cables . Your TV likely includes either optical or composite ( RCA ) jacks for one or more of your DVI or VGA connections . For HDMI , you 'll need a third-party adapter like <URL> . Note that this one does not carry audio either . The most recent 13 " MBP does put audio out over that port , but I 'm not aware of any adapters that can use the audio yet . That same site also sells third-party VGA and DVI adapters that are much cheaper than Apple 's . I ca n't vouch for the quality of the third-party adapters , but I buy most of my cables there , and I 've always had good results .
Check this question for the sentence structure you need to use to achieve this : <URL> Add " list name " reminder " new item " on " date and time " Example : " Add activities reminder basketball practice on friday at 2pm . "
Select the song in iTunes and type & #x 21E7 ; + & #x 2318 ; + R to trigger Show in Finder . Alternatively , you can also right-click the item in iTunes and choose this option from the contextual menu . From there , you can navigate up the folder hierarchy by holding the & #x 2318 ; - key and clicking on the folder in the window title bar . You might also want to enable Show Path bar in finder .
There is an extension that runs on Firefox that can easily snag that video . I use Firefox 20.0 with <URL> It does not work with Safari , but I 've tested the Facebook link for you and it will get you the entire 2 GB video file if you have a fast network connection . You will get an unsigned extension warning when installing the add-on , since the video downloader is n't signed by the developer . You also need flash player since it grabs the flash file .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
One possible solution would be to use a locked <URL> - clear , much tougher to break and with a headphone jack pass through .
You can use MPEG Stream Clip : <URL> Simply open the file and choose to export it from the file menu in a format of your choosing , selecting the appropriate rotation in the selection box . You can find out the current format of the video by choosing File > Show Stream Info as to match the export to the input settings if required .
<URL> ( US$ 15 ) turns a ( Lion or above ) Mac into an AirPlay receiver that can handle mirroring . Once you 've got the mirrored display on a Mac , all you need is to capture that video , which is easy . For example : Start Reflection on the Mac . Turn mirroring on ( requires iPad 2 or newer or iPhone 4S or newer ) , selecting the Mac as the target . Use a video screen capture program ( Quicktime Player can do this , but there are lots of more advanced ones if you need more ) to record the Reflection window . No jailbreaking is required . <URL> ( also US$ 15 ) is another application that offers essentially the same functionality as Reflection ( and was released slightly afterwards ) , but is also available for Windows , if you do n't have a Mac to do the recording on .
end question
start question
If I remote wipe my iPhone , can I still locate it remotely ?
No , you wo n't be able to . It tells you that on <URL> , before wiping your iPhone :
To strictly answer your question , it is not possible to delete something from your device and have it remain and accessible from iCloud Photo Library . Here 's more details : The idea behind iCloud Photos Library is to have all your photos on all your devices . Picture a parent of a small family in California who takes , on average , several photos a week and has a Mac , iPad , and iPhone . When they take a photo on their iPhone , it syncs to their other two devices automatically so that when they arrive home , they can open their computer and view the photos or videos they took . Pretty cool ? Yes , for some situations it 's ideal . But there 's a problem , if you do n't have enough storage on your phone to hold all of the photos , iCloud Library is stuck until you open settings and allow it to optimize your device storage . It then saves low resolution photos to your device and will download the high resolution version when you view the photo . This too is convenient in some situations . The problem comes in when you want to control what photos go where . I 've taken thousands of photos and videos on my iPhone and I do n't want all of those on my phone even if I could have that . But with iCloud Library enabled , all of your photos will be on your device as there is no way to control what images are in the cloud versus on your device . So , it seems that Apple 's solution to your problem of having too many photos and videos on your phone would be to enable the option to optimize device storage . However , here is , by far , the biggest problem with iCloud Photo Library and the " optimize device storage " option . If you enable that setting , and then go to disable it at some point , it will attempt to download the full resolution version of all your images ( not just the device-optimized high-resolution one ) . This makes sense , but causes a problem as your device likely would n't have near enough storage by then to handle that . Consequently , that 's probably not the approach you would want to take . To summarize : use iCloud Photo Library if you do n't take ( or keep ) a lot of photos and if you have more than one Apple device . Otherwise , it 's probably better to avoid it .
Unfortunately , it 's a done deal when the Send button is hit , and there is no native way to cancel it , or delay the sending , so the user could have the opportunity to cancel . If after pressing send you swipe upwards from the bottom of the screen and hit the flight mode button ( top left ) then the message will not be able to send . You need to be reasonably quick , but if you practice it a few times it does become easier , and works every time .
Your iPhone will not spoil if placed on your laptop . Unless it is so hot that your iPhone warns you about its temperature . Concerning the electronic/magnetic stuff , your laptop will not give out that much amount of stuff to spoil the iPhone , unless your laptop is a microwave .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
If you see a 3G at the top left it means that you are in an area which does not have 4G support . When you are in an area with 4G ( or , on Verizon , LTE ) you will see that in the top-left corner instead .
It depends how " minus " . In general , li-on batteries live longer if you respect their acceptable operating temperatures . In the case of your Macbook Pro , <URL> has a dedicated page with tips about Battery Maintenance . If you observe the temperature graph on the left , the Minus degrees are not in the " I like this " zone . Truth is , your MBP will get warm relatively fast , but if your MBP is at 0ºC , I 'd wait a little bit . At those temperatures , depending upon the dew point and the humidity ( among other factors ) the risk of running moisture is higher , especially if the MBP will start heating fast when you turn it on . Just let the machine heat for a few minutes at room temperature to be safe . Of course , if you have to use it one day , the battery is not going to die on you . Remember , extreme temperatures are enemies of batteries ! The cold Swedish tundra is not a friendly place for a Li-on battery :)
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
You may restore your iPhone to 4.2.1 , but you need the SHSHs for your device as Apple servers only allow 4.3 firmware at the moment , I think .
Yes , you can . As long as you backup everything to iTunes , you are safe to wipe it clean . When you connect your new iPhone to iTunes it will ask , " Do you want to load data from the currently saved backup ? " or , " Do you want to set up as a new iPhone " . You can also synchronize your iPhone with iCloud , directly from your iPhone . On your new iPhone , during first setup , you can choose to restore from iCloud . Make sure you have the latest iTunes installed nonetheless .
I personally prefer using Web Sharing and installing only MySQL Server , just to stick with the Mac OS X Apache setup . Web sharing has support for PHP , all you need to do is remove the comment ( # ) from the following line of the file / etc/apache2/httpd . conf : So it becomes : The PHP module includes MySQL support , so you just need to install the MySQL Server , turn it on and then you are ready to go . After turning Web Sharing on , put your . php files inside your personal Site folder , and access it on your browser using the address informed on the Web Sharing activation screen , inside Settings .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
So apparently you can use the Back To My Mac infrastructure to get to SSH even if there 's no port open on the router in front of the relevant Mac : Find your iCloud account number by executing this command in terminal : Example output ( Make a note of the number on the last line , in this case 123456789 ( this is just an example ) . The hostname you need to use for ssh is < computer 's local hostname > . < number above > . members.btmm.icloud.com . Replace spaces with hyphens , and omit apostrophes ( the default name is " Name 's < type of Mac > " ) The command I used therefore was : To complete the solution to my problem ( rebooting ) , once logged in via SSH , I used the following command to restart : ( Sourced from <URL> )
Whited00r is not iOS 7 . It just looks and feels like iOS 7 . You wo n't be able to install iOS 7 applications or have access to many of the features of iOS 7 . You 're still running iOS 4 under the hood , and all you have to do is restore in iTunes if you do n't like it .
Pressing ShiftOptionVolume Up/Volume Down allows you to adjust in quarter-box increments . You can also click the volume icon in the menu bar and fine-tune with the slider , or open the Sound panel in System Preferences and get a bigger slider there , which would allow for finer control .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
Do you mean to Jailbreak your phone , or to unlock it so you can use it on a different network ? Unlocks currently depend on your firmware version , which you can check by going to settings >> general >> about and looking at the version number . If you can confirm then we could find the right unlock for your phone , supposing it can be unlocked .
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
No , you wo n't be able to . It tells you that on <URL> , before wiping your iPhone :
end question
start question
Which files are transferred when using Transfer purchases from ?
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
You can do this with Markdown.pl and htmldoc ( 1 ) , both of which can be installed with <URL> . The basic flow for making a PDF is : As for your filename-per-page , you coul incorporate echo to add it as an HTML element : And for printing , the lpr ( 1 ) command will send a file to your default printer . Tying this altogether :
Printer setup information is stored in / etc/cups , so simply copying that directory from the old machine to the new , and re-installing any needed print drivers successfully populates the printer list on the new machine .
The following <URL> by <URL> confirms that ... It is now possible with the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 9.5 mm slot-loading BD-ROM drive , and/or the UJ-267 BD-Recorder drive , and some extra software : Mac Blu Ray Player from MacGo . However , these blu-ray drives are not a " 100 % direct swap out replacement " : There is a slight difference with some mounting points on the top side of the drive . The problem is solved by swapping the drives ' upper casing out . ( see " How to upgrade to the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 drive " ) Once you finish the upgrade , OS X will " recognize blu-ray discs and it will be available to the file system like any other optical disc " . How to upgrade to the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 drive This may void your warranty . Try this at your own risk . Remove the original superdrive . ( You can follow instructions by <URL> , for example . ) Remove the top metal shell of the drive itself , by removing its four screws . You 'll also have to peel off a strip of silver tape that connects the top shell to the bottom shell . This will expose the internal guts of the superdrive . It 's this top metal shell that we need to keep , it has the mounting holes in the right spots , so be very careful not to damage it . Do not touch any components inside of the drive . You may want to look up how to do this , it 's a little tricky to free it up successfully . Now remove the top metal shell of the new blu-ray drive in the same fashion . Swap out those top metal shells , and screw the drives back together . The top metal shell from the original superdrive should now be on the new blu-ray drive . Now also swap out the small Y shaped mounting bracket from the plug-side of the superdrive and screw it to the new blu-ray drive - those two screw holes do match up exactly already . Carefully unplug the flexible data connection cable from the old superdrive and plug it onto the new blu-ray drive . Reinstall blu-ray drive .
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
Have a look at <URL> for a discussion of the same topic , listing a lot of options . Assuming you are running Lion you can move files by using Cmd-C to pick them up and Cmd-Opt-V to move them to the target location .
files are disk images , similar to an file . You can think of them like a virtual CD . You put it into the CD drive ( mount it ) , and its contents appear on your computer . When used for software downloads , they are simply a way to bundle up files , like in a ZIP archive . Their advantage is that it 's possible to customize the design ( e.g. Finder window background and icon positions , see example below ) . The actual program is in a special bundle or package directory with the usually invisible extension . It contains an application 's resources , like image files , and the actual binary ( the " equivalent " ) that is executed when you start the program . If you want to compare it to a Windows equivalent , the closest would probably be the folder in created by a program 's installer . To install such an application from a disk image , you drag and drop it to your hard drive , e.g. the directory . That 's what a lot of disk images try to convey in their disk image design : You grab the application , Adium in this case , and drag it onto the Applications folder :
I 've always involved the carrier , but I do n't know if you have to involve VZW in the switch . If you have a shared data plan , then you will certainly want to get them involved to ensure you do n't make a stand alone plan when the old SIM hits the new device . I 've had no issues with exchanging a device and not had to pay the fee for enrolling the new device since it simply replaced the old one . If you are on a month to month plan and do n't mind re-paying the activation charge , you could simply set up the new device and let the old device 's plan expire . Much depends on if you use the device to set up the account or want to have verizon enter the details into their system as the different types of accounts have different manners of adding the new device to the plan .
There are two separate issues here : 1 . Transferring data plans This is best dealt with directly through your carrier as CajunLuke notes . For person A , a simple SIM swap should work though , for person B you 'll need to cut the 3G 's SIM down to <URL> size to fit in the iPhone 4 . And you can probably swap the SIM from the dumbphone into the 3G and have the appropriate data plans added on the account . Still check with your carrier to avoid headaches . 2 . Transferring backups amongst the iPhones This is pretty straightforward . It sounds like the iPhone users have already got them backed up , so you 're most of the way there . Do a final backup , and make sure they remember the passwords . I 'd start with the 4S , since it 's a clean phone anyway . When you plug it in to iTunes and activate it , it should ask if you want to set it up as a new iPhone , or restore it from a backup . If it does n't , just right-click the iPhone in the iTunes source list and choose Restore from Backup . Check to make sure everything seems right on the phone , then you 're good to go . To set up the iPhone 4 , start by wiping it clean ( this is why you want to do the 4S first , in case something goes wrong , you still have the data on the 4 ) . Go to Settings > General > Reset and select Erase all Content and Settings . You 'll have to enter the phone 's passcode if you use one . Once the wipe is complete , plug it in to Person B 's computer and set it up via iTunes as you did with the 4S , but using the backup from Person B 's 3G . To set up the 3G , repeat the wipe process above , but set it up as a new phone in iTunes for person C . If the dumbphone has Bluetooth sync capability , you can try transferring contacts to the PC that way using iSync and Address Book ( note that Lion no longer includes iSync , you 'll need a 10.6 machine or lower ) . Alternatively , if the phone stores the contacts on the SIM , or has the option to copy them there , you can import SIM contacts on the iPhone by going to Mail , Contacts , Calendars in Settings and selecting Import SIM Contacts . Apple has a good KB article detailing any additional information you might want <URL> .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
I also have the same problem and unfortunately there does n't seem to be a way to view this kind of information at present . This is corroborated by several Apple Support Community threads <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . As you say , the only option seems to be to either try to figure out which machines are currently authorized and deauthorize them using iTunes ( particularly difficult in the case of multiple VM 's or machines you no longer have ) or deauthorize all and start again .
One solution would be to use <URL> or <URL> to hold/sync your notes and read them with a simple text editing or note taking app . I use <URL> .
As you said , Apple knows what you have purchased and they are all linked to your account . However , transferring your purchases means that the purchased files ( apps , music , movies ... ) will copy from your device ( iPhone 5s ) to your computer then you do n't need to re-download them from the internet .
When a file gets sent , you 'll be given a popup menu with a list of apps in which to store the file . You have to pick one if you want to keep the file . If you just press Cancel , the file gets deleted .
<URL> is an app that can notify when apps begin using microphone or webcam privileges . I do n't know how it 's implemented under the hood , though .
The <URL> : Late 2009 : MacBook ( MacBook6 ,1 ) Late 2009 : iMac ( 21.5 " iMac10 ,1 , 27 " iMac10 ,1 and iMac 10,2 ) Mid 2010 : MacBook Pro ( 13 " MacBookPro7 ,1 , 15 " MacBookPro6 ,2 , 17 " MacBookPro6 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac mini ( Macmini4 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac Pro ( MacPro5 ,1 ) Late 2010 : MacBook Air ( 11 " MacBookAir3 ,1 , 13 " MacBookAir3 ,2 ) All later models are unquestionably compatible . A public list ( on <URL> ) is not available yet , but a list may be available in the <URL> ( Developer Only ) . For the Developer Preview : Registered Developers can access in for a full list of officially supported Mac board-ids . It may be possible to install on some unsupported hardware through <URL> , <URL> , or other methods .
If you have an external display attached with an external mouse/trackpad and keyboard , closing the lid will not put the machine in standby mode . You can keep using the computer with those devices . Check <URL> Apple link to read the official statement about it . Requirements for closed display mode : Power adapter External keyboard , mouse , or trackpad External display
This feature seems to now exist in Apple Screen Sharing Version 1.5 ( 481.1 ) Or and then select
Unfortunately there is no easy one-click solution to downloading all your previously purchased apps . Best you can do is look through the list of purchased apps and re-buy them ( you will not be charged again ) .
end question
start question
Can you prevent the iPhone browser from reloading pages ?
The behavior that you 've described appears to be a limitation of the Safari mobile browser . Other users have complained about the Safari Mobile auto refresh behavior on several Apple community forum posts . This <URL> offers some explanations and potential solutions : This is not a feature ... It 's a limitation . MobileSafari keeps website cache only in RAM , and therefore , once it runs out of RAM , it 'll automatically destroy an entire page , forcing the refresh , disguising itself as an auto-refresh feature . You can only keep at most 3 pages open at any time ... Even the iPhone 4 with double the amount of RAM can only keep 5 pages . You can try a third-party browser that has offline caching , and it 'll remedy the situation . Or alternatively , use the swap file mod I posted in the jailbreak forums and it should work , too . These third-party browsers have offline page caching as far as I know : <URL> ( also supports concurrent tab , which means you can browse websites while listening to music on youtube , this is my personal favourite ) <URL> ( many useful features , but the interface is a bit strange ) <URL> ( cool browser that looks like a shrunk version of desktop Safari ) Your choices appear to be : Use a jailbreak mod to increase the swap file size ( hopefully will increase number of pages that can be stored ) Use a third party browser that supports offline caching
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
Personal Hotspot is designed for sharing a cellular data connection , not for acting as a wireless access point or router . This means that multiple devices connected to the same iOS device can not connect to one another - they can only access the Internet ( assuming the cellular data connection is active ) . Unfortunately I ca n't find any Apple documentation to confirm this , but have seent his from personal experience . Your best solution is to purchase a portable wireless access point and connect all of your devices to that .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Yes this really is one long command -- make sure to run it all . Replace with actual website , and with the relevant version of the simulator that you 're using .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
I 'd make a little AppleScript that does this : Replace the URL ( in quotes ) with your homepage . The rest of the code serves to figure out what your default browser is , and make it the active application . That part lifted from a Daring Fireball <URL> . Save it as an app called Browser and put it somewhere . Once Spotlight indexes it , you can type Browser in and hit enter . This will open the URL in your default browser . Directions : Open AppleScript Editor from your Applications/Utilities folder ( if you have older than 10.6 , it will be Script Editor in your Applications folder ) . Paste that line in . Go to File - > Save As . Set the File Format : menu to Application . Choose a location and save .
Those sensors are no electrical sensors , but pieces of paper that change from white to red when they get wet . There are up to two spots you can look at without opening the device . Have a look inside your headphone jacket and your dock connector . ( use a torch/flashlight as lint or dim light can make these orangish-pink indicators hard to discern ! ) Have a look at <URL> Here 's the diagram for an iPhone 4/4S :
No , you can not , for a number of reasons : Most ( when I say most , I mean all but a few ) Jailbreak tweaks modify files outside of your user profile . This is a separate partition and can not be accessed unless you have root access ( you have to be Apple or you have to be Jailbroken ) . Jailbreaking , from a low-level point-of-view , simply makes it so you can run unsigned code on iOS , which allows you to break out of the sandbox environment in . This allows you to install Cydia , modify system files , and gain root access . If you notice in your iOS browser on your computer , you can only access things in ( or it might even call it , because that 's what a sandbox does - it 's ) . Even if the file browser is cool enough to read on your true , it 's not going to be able to write . With that being said , you 're going to have to Jailbreak in order to install Jailbreak tweaks . Note : I have n't used Phone Disk , but iFunBox is pretty much the same thing .
On <URL> , it 's stated at the bottom of the page that Apple Watch : Requires iPhone 5 or later . This means no iPod touch .
in Lion this is possible , but do n't remember seeing this anywhere in previous versions . When you start a screen sharing session it will ask you how you want to view the remote session .
If you 're trying to roll your own solution , the actual file is a package . If you right click it , you can show package contents . Inside the resulting folder will be all the graphic files plus a file called index.xlm.gz . If you unzip the file , it is an xml file containing all the text in the pages document .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
Yes . The Monster Beats cables are fully compatible with Apple hardware . They have a mic to support voice actions and Siri . They also have all the hardware buttons for playing music and making phone calls . I happen to own the Beats Solo headphones . This is what the packaging says : " Made for iPod " , " Made for iPhone " and " Made for iPad " mean that an electronic accessory has been designed to connect specifically to iPod , iPhone or iPad , respectively , and has been certified by the developer to meet Apple performance standards . ( also see <URL> on Apple 's website ) These minimum standards would include voice and button actions using the headset .
Yes to all of your questions . The Jailbreak app tricks your iPhone into thinking it is on WiFi , enabling you to use FaceTime over 3G . Source : <URL>
On your iPad device tap on Settings > Store . Under where it says Automatic Downloads , make sure that Apps is set to Off . This setting keeps apps from automatically downloading new purchases made on other devices .
Go to Settings > General > Restrictions and untick the Youtube button . After that Youtube links will open in Safari and the app icon will disappear from the home screen .
Typing works for me on Lion . You can substitute for any of the preference panes in the folder . This also switches to the correct pane even if System Preferences is already open .
You can disable sleeping in the preference pane of . Alternatively , you can use a free app called <URL> to easily prevent your Mac from sleeping just with a click of the mouse . Both work exactly the same , but Caffeine makes it easier to dynamically switch between the two settings .
Sadly , it seems there is no way to do that . I checked the AppStore panel in the preference app , and the notification panel . No trace of an option to do that . Sorry !
end question
start question
How can I make Apple 's keyboard shortcuts work in Chrome ?
Chrome does n't call <URL> and instead wrote their own keyboard handling routines . Since this is how the program was made , there 's not much of a workaround except to do your typing in a program that calls Apple 's text input libraries and paste the results into Chrome . ( Similar to how Dictionary lookup using Control-Command-D did n't work for several years on Chrome either until the code was updated to call Apple 's SDK for that function ) . You can see this <URL> might apply and also , that Chrome is in the process of removing it 's own spell checker / autocorrect mechanism and shifting to rely on Apple 's implementation : <URL>
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
The best set of earphones might depend upon your preferences , your goals , your budget , and other consideration , so let me focus on giving you some background and explaining how you can educate yourself and make an informed decision . If what you care about is sound quality , I recommend taking a look at <URL> and <URL> . You can read through dozens and dozens of knowledgeable reviews of headphones there . <URL> provides an excellent buying guide for shopping for headphones . If you care about sound quality , I do not recommend relying on mainstream sources ( e.g. , Cnet , random web sites , tech magazines , etc. ) for headphone reviews . They have extremely poor knowledge about this topic and are often a poor judge of sound quality ; I 'm often disappointed with their reviews . There are several <URL> of headphones : earbuds , full-sized circumaural hadphones ( these go around your ear , but do not rest on the ear itself ) , full-sized supra-aural headphones ( these have pads that rest on the ear ) , and in-ear monitors . The circumaural and supra-aural headphones can be " open " or " closed " . Each of these varieties has different tradeoffs . Earbuds are small headphones that fit loosely in your outer ear . They are portable , cheap , and widely available , but give the worst sound quality . Circumaural headphones can give excellent sound quality and are comfortable , but they 're large and not so portable . Supra-aural headphones can give very good sound quality . Opinions vary about their comfort , and they 're not so portable . In-ear monitors go inside your ear canal and form a tight seal . They are basically like earplugs , with a tiny speaker inserted into them . They offer excellent sound quality ( in my opinion , the very best sound quality ) . They offer very good portability . They 're also very good for travel ( because they block outside noise ) . However , they tend to be expensive , and some people do n't like having something stuck in their ear . Also , they are not so good for walking/running , because a bone-conductance effect causes you to hear a thud every time your foot strikes the ground . As far as open vs closed ( which only applies to the full-sized circumaural/supra-aural variety ) : Open headphones do n't try to provide any seal . This means that if you use them in a room with others , other people may be able to hear some of what you are hearing . If you 're using headphones to avoid bothering others , you might not want open headphones . Closed headphones provide a bit of a partial seal , so you wo n't bother others . Personally , I love in-ear monitors . I love the Etymotics ER-4P ; they are an outstanding quality , a reference in this space . Shure , Westone , Ultimate Ears , and others also make very high quality in-ear monitors . If you care about sound quality , you 'll be amazed by the difference in sound quality between your Apple stock earbuds and good in-ear monitors ( or really , any quality headphone ) ; the difference is enormous . You 'll pay a lot more , but in my opinion , if you can afford it , it 's worth it . If what you care about is that they 're cheap , you might want to look at earbuds . If you 're looking for medium-priced open supra-aural headphones , Grado has pretty good value ( SR-60 or SR-80 ) . For full-sized headphones , Sennheiser is a standard , well-respected brand . But see the buying guide for more specific recommendations . Since you mentioned you want headphones with a microphone capability , you could look at <URL> , such as the <URL> or <URL> ; both are advertised as providing support for the iPhone , microphone , and full 3-button remote control . I 'm sure there are many other excellent options from other vendors ; I mention the Etymotics ones only because I 'm a happy customer of their other products . I 'm afraid I do n't have any data on durability . All I can tell you is that I 've had my Etymotics ER-4P headphones for over a decade now ( heavily used : I use them daily ) , with no problems . You can find price information via the web or at your favorite store .
This is not possible at all right now . Like you said , you can back out and go in again to dismiss keyboard . Other option is to tap the ' edit ' button on top right . That will dismiss keyboard but it will go in edit mode . When you cancel out of edit mode keyboard will come back . Apple should do something to easily bring up and dismiss keyboard ... Update : With iOS 5 , you can swipe messages down all the way pushing the keyboard downwards . Initially I thought , " why not just swipe down the keyboard itself to dismiss ? " But now it makes sense because you start scrolling down to see previous messages and keyboard naturally goes away when you do that .
you can use KeyRemap4MacBook <URL> you can find the included prepared settings list at this address : <URL> as you can see there is the setting for Fn Key
Try CtrlF2 - that should highlight the Apple-symbol on the main menubar . edit : The cursor keys and Enter then allow you to navigate , drill-down and ultimately select an item - just as you can on Windows . also - ca n't claim credit for this , I learnt it here on the site ! <URL>
In add a plist entry to the file such that the key is and the value is . Here is an example : assuming the file does n't exist , use a text editor to save the following code : The full file name and path of the above should be .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
As mentioned in your linked article , the default place for all included importers has been System > Library > Spotlight since 10.4 and it 's still there in ML , including RichText.mdimporter .
Under > > > you 've got a list of all the keyboard layouts available . To remove the " Globe " key , you need to have only one keyboard enabled .
It depends on how you have defined the shortcut keys . The files responsible for storing these preferences are in the usual place : ~ / Library/Preferences You could simply move the files that store the preferences over to the new Mac : com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist com.apple.universalaccess.plist com.apple.iWork.Keynote.plist com.apple.iWork.Pages.plist If you were good at parsing JSON or XML , you could do the export to a text file as well using <URL> .
It seems like that behaviour was never been implemented in Firefox on OS X. See <URL> . But you can use Command ⌘ + Shift ⇧ + B to get to the bookmarks menu and there you can edit all bookmarks by right-clicking .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
You have two options . 1 . On-the-road compatible , but not so user-friendy Create a new playlist on the iOS device ( iPod Touch is one , of course ) . Then , add the songs one by one from memory . They will be kept in sort order , and the playlist will be synced to iTunes for future use . 2 . Much easier , but with listening limitations Sync with iTunes . Select the Library source on the left panel . Sort the tracks by " last played " , by clicking on the title of the " Last played " column . If this column is not visible , right-click on any column 's title and check the corresponding item ( or hit ⌘ J and check it ) . Find the set of songs you liked and select it . Create a new playlist from this selection ( ⌘ ⇧ N ) . Reverse the sort order of the newly created playlist by clicking on the ( empty ) title of the column that contains the play index ( numbers at the extreme left of a song 's title ) . The only problem with this solution is that if you listen to one of the songs that were in your set , it will have its Last played field updated , and wo n't be in the proper place ... So this solution is usable only if you can sync pretty quickly after listening to the set , or can remember a few songs ' positions , or if you avoid listening to them altogether before the next sync .
Sadly it does n't work at this time . I tried looking for a matching SPR but I could n't find one . So I have created SPR SODY9GMBDH so that development can investigate further . Do not treat this as a final answer though ( as someone may have worked around it ) .
This issue has been removed with the latest Chrome update ( 18.0.1025.142 ) . You can read more about the update here : <URL>
Those key bindings are programmed into the standard text handing routines by Apple . Unless the programmer goes out of their way to write a text input library on their own , you get those key bindings for free . Same as the close/minimize buttons and much else that is similar between programs . Much of a program comes from Apple 's frameworks and SDK .
Launch System Preferences ... from the Apple menu . Click on Speech . The left tab is marked Speech Recognition . Set the Microphone from the default " Internal microphone " to " Line In " . Click on the Calibrate button . Then speak the phrases on the left e.g. " What Time Is It ? " If your Mac detects your line-in , you 'll see the blue-green-red indicator respond to the volume of your voice from the line-in . Have fun , and do n't forget to mark the question as answered when you 're done . Cheers .
end question
start question
Why do I occasionally get the message " could not activate cellular data network " when opening the sms app ?
This is annoying but you ca n't turn it off unfortunately . If the iPhone detects a momentary loss of connection to the cell tower and it believes the user is interacting with the phone then it will pop this message up . It 's intention is to let you know that you do n't have a signal and therefore wo n't be able to send your SMS , email etc. however more often than not it 's a sub-second blip in the signal rather than a total loss . If you watch closely you 'll sometimes see the signal bars disappear and reappear as the signal is reacquired . You could try going to Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings to see if somehow you 've altered some network setting which is affecting your reception but you 'll lose wifi passwords etc I think if you do that .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
No . IPhone will use the cellular connection for push notifications at any time , unless is turned off . Also , if the lock screen is on , then iPhone is connected to the cellular network , not wifi . IPad is always connected to wifi , lock screen or no .
Numbers seems to use the decimal separator selected in System Preferences : I did n't find any way to use both comma and period as decimal separators though . Note that if you change the region from the menu at the top , it also affects things like the default values of locale variables in Terminal and iTerm .
Yes , you do have to re-buy to get updates via the Mac App Store . Via <URL> : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store . Honestly , I 'm really surprised by this . UPDATE : I 'd recommend reading <URL> about this as it provides a more comprehensive picture of what 's going on , and includes some developer-related information .
Short answer , no . Longer answer , you can access Wifi data while on a call , but not cellular data : If you 're in an area with Wifi coverage , you 'll be able to talk on the phone while using data . If you 're in an area with only LTE/3G/CDMA coverage , you will not be able to talk on the phone while using data . <URL> : The iPhone 5 was designed to allow customers to place a voice call on the Verizon Wireless network , while letting customers access the Internet over the WiFi . <URL> : So onto the iPhone -- we know definitively that the iPhone 5 definitely does n't support either SVDO or SVLTE . It 's as simple as looking at the FCC documents and the appropriate sections in the allowed and tested simultaneous transmitters section for SAR ( Specific Absorption Rate ) testing . There , it 's spelled out that only one air interface can be active at a time , and that only one antenna can be selected for transmit at a time . There 's also an explicitly called out mention to VoLTE not being supported at present . I did n't replicate the entire table of simultaneous transmission combinations which need to be tested ( it is a huge table ) there are no entries with CDMA Voice being active at the same time as any data mode save WiFi . This has been confirmed as well by later statements by the carriers and Apple .
Tap on the status bar will bring you to the top of the message . A quick way to get to the call button .
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
I 've always involved the carrier , but I do n't know if you have to involve VZW in the switch . If you have a shared data plan , then you will certainly want to get them involved to ensure you do n't make a stand alone plan when the old SIM hits the new device . I 've had no issues with exchanging a device and not had to pay the fee for enrolling the new device since it simply replaced the old one . If you are on a month to month plan and do n't mind re-paying the activation charge , you could simply set up the new device and let the old device 's plan expire . Much depends on if you use the device to set up the account or want to have verizon enter the details into their system as the different types of accounts have different manners of adding the new device to the plan .
This is a feature introduced with the <URL> . Accessibility improvements : Option to light LED flash on incoming calls and alerts for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 Custom vibration patterns for incoming calls on iPhone New interface for using iOS with mobility-impairment input devices Option to speak a selection of text Custom element labeling for VoiceOver You can change the setting in Settings - > General - > Accessibility options :
Try <URL> . It 's an automatic updater that automatically updates your Dropbox to the latest forum build of Dropbox . Works on OS X Leopard | Snow Leopard | Lion . Edit : it 's also Growl-enabled , so you may get notified whenever Dropbox 's been updated .
You will find <URL> solutions ( Keyboard Maestro , Karabiner , Automator Wrapper ) or <URL> ( LaunchBar/Quicksilver ) to accomplish this . Another <URL> solution is the Launcher Mode : <URL> Download , install and start Karabiner . In the menubar open Karabiner - > Preferences Search for Launcher and enable the preset . To open Activity Monitor hold OA and release A
No , indeed . Photos that you share are not shared [ sic ] , but are copied and then shared , despite clear indications in the user interface that would lead to the conclusion that they are . Furthermore , as a consequence , albums are not shared at all : instead the individual photos in the album at the time it is shared are copied . Moreover , if you add photos to an album , and wish to add them to the shared " version " of that album , you must make sure to " share " only the added photos , as any photos that you " share again " will have new copies made for them in the shared album .
in a Terminal . However , note that there really should n't be necessary to every start XQuartz.app ( or X11.app ; see the comments ) manually . It will start automatically when you run an X11 client , and then it will not start its defaults startup application .
I feel the same way you do about this . That 's why I 've filed a radar at bugreport.apple.com . Please reference " Problem id : 9153445 " when you filed your radar as the this will increases the incident count and making it likelier Apple Xcode team will prioritize a fix . Since bugreport.apple.com does n't allow you to search and view another 's radar , I 've copied the radar I filed at Apple at <URL> . Thanks for reminding me that this regression needs people to start filing radars .
On your iPhone , force close all the Apps in the multitask window . Depending on your version of iOS , you do the following : On iOS 7 and before : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Tap and hold on the app . When it starts to jiggle , tap the X to close it . Repeat until all the apps have been closed . On iOS 8 : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Swipe the application preview window upwards to close the app . ( you can close multiple apps at once ) Repeat until all the apps have been closed . Now do a Soft reset of your iPhone : Hold both Home and Sleep button for around 10secs until you see the Apple logo then release . After it returns to Home screen , connect to sync and see if this resolves the issue . Source : <URL>
thanks to @ismail for the suggestion that lead me to my final answer . So at the suggestion of Timothy the best answer I could come to is to create an Automater Folder Action that will move files from the Mail Downloads folder to the User Downloads Folder . To do so : Create a Folder Action Add an action for " Get Specified Finder Items action " and target the Mail Downloads folder Add an action of " Get Folder Contents " ( with repeat for each subfolder checked ) Add the " Move Finder Items " action and specify the downloads folder . Save the Finder Action with a relevant name ( I named mine Mail Download Mover ) Now go find the Mail Downloads folder in your User Library folder . Right click the Mail Downloads folder and select " Set Folder Action " This will move all your " downloaded " mail attachments directly to the download folder ( usually it takes a second or 2 for the automater to kick in ) I tested this using a zip file I emailed myself . After double clicking the zip file it went to the mail downloads folder and unzipped there . Then both items were moved to my downloads folder .
Solution is a terminal command with which you can control the sleep timer . I set it to 1 minute . This still means the disk wakes up every hour for the time machine backup , and also every 15 minutes-ish for god knows what reason . But its much better than before , just annoying that it regularly wakes up for a minute , which is distracting .
T-Mobile 's 3G/4G coverage for an iPhone 5 is better than a year ago but still limited so you are rolling the dice . They just released a carrier update for the iPhone that will give an iPhone 5 access to some of their 4G network . But it 's still early days and the usefulness will greatly depend on your location . T-Mobile also offers a pay-as-you go plan where talk and text are charged as used and data can be activated on a day-to-day basis . StraightTalk is another option for an unlocked iPhone but is only 3G . $ 45/month for unlimited talk , text , and data . As usual , " unlimited " means " secret limits " that we can arbitrarily use to kick heavy users off . The big advantage of T-Mobile is that you can walk into a T-Mobile store and get it set-up . AT&amp;T is still officially restricting the use of non-contract iPhones on their network and walking into a store will be a bust , but they do n't actively hunt them down so GoPhone is an unofficial option . You have to buy a GoPhone SIM and cut it down to size but it will work . Unofficial and a bit of a PITA but the option exists . You can buy pre-cut cards on Amazon but getting one in a store is a bit trickier . <URL> I suspect this gives 4G/HSPA + and not 4G/LTE .
When the text bubble is green instead of blue , you 're sending a SMS instead of using iMessage , being , therefore , charged for that . Messages are sent as SMS when iMessage is unavailable , unless you disable this under Settings / Messages / Send as SMS . So , as I understand it , you either sent it to an non Apple ID email address , or the text could n't reach the receiver through iMessage , changing to SMS mode .
end question
start question
What is in an IPSW file ?
The IPSW file type is primarily associated with ' iPhone/iPod ' by Apple Inc. . This is a firmware update file for the iPhone . The file is a renamed . ZIP file . If you unZIP it you will see a file called MANIFEST.PLIST and a file without an extension but with a version number in the name , e.g. , Firmware-14 .5.3 . This file is the firmware image . Source <URL>
Apple iPhoto '11 Let 's not forget that <URL> costs $ 15 in the Mac App Store , and that it has processing tools for RAW as well as frequently-updated profiles for working with many makes and models of cameras that produce RAW image files . Google Picasa <URL> is free and supports many RAW formats . Canon Digital Photo Professional version 3.11.26 is compatible with Mac OS X Lion . If you already own an earlier version that came with your Canon camera , you can download the updater from canon.com for free . Otherwise , here is how you can get it : <URL> comes on a CD with a suite of programs called Canon Digital Camera Solutions Disk ver . 38.1 . I recently bought a used Canon Powershot G10 whose seller did not provide the original software sold with a new Canon . So I called up Canon 's customer service , explained that I bought a used Canon , and asked them if I could purchase their tools on CD . They sold me the suite for US $ 20 plus tax and shipping ( it came to $ 27 ) . ... you may purchase the latest Canon Digital Camera Software Solutions disc for your camera through Canon USA 's Customer Support Center at 1-800-828-4040 . Residents of other countries should contact their regional Canon customer support center for further assistance . I installed the whole suite on Mac OS X Lion , then downloaded the latest updates from canonusa.com to make sure they were compatible with Lion . The suite includes Canon Digital Photo Professional , for processing RAW images , a batch-file processing utility called Canon Digital Photo Professional Batch , the Canon Image Browser for general photo management , and Photostitch for making panoramas .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
Easily spoken , you could say ispw files are not complete . They 're missing that so-called signature . It 's like a contract ; it has no value without the signature . Every time you install new firmware on the iPhone , iTunes calls to the Apple servers and ask for that approval signature . For numerous reasons , Apple does n't give out those signatures for older firmware versions . There 's not much you can do . The only thing you can do is downgrading to 8.4.1 and hope one day somebody releases the jailbreak for it . But for now , you 're stucked .
According to <URL> , the main filesystem is HFSX . HSFX All Apple mobile devices use HFSX as the file system . HFSX is a variation of HFS + with one major difference . HFSX is case sensitive . HFSX is reported by Apple as <URL> . There are two main partitions of HFSX : the OS and the user data . Prior to these partitions is the usual MBR partition ( around 100 MB ) . SSHing into my jailbroken iOS 6 device seems to support this , since I can create case-sensitive directories . Creating the following directories was no problem :
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
I ended up changing the output to native . xls format by using the php wrapper from <URL> . The files now open fine in both native windows Excel and iWorks Numbers ' 09 .
iCloud backups are incremental . You 'll continue to complete backups when connectivity is restored .
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
System Prefences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Enable " Full Keyboard Access : All Controls " , then you can use Tab to move between elements until your file list is highlighted , and use the arrows to select your file , in fact you should immediately be able to type a letter or use the keys as the default focus should be on the file list .
It depends . Other then testing each individual part , no one could really say . What I 'd do is take the whole thing apart , rinse everything off with water ( distilled would be best , but at this point it probably does n't make a difference ) and clean everything with isopropyl alcohol . Dry everything off and reassemble the iPhone . Try to power it on . If it powers on , take note of what still does n't work and email the Apple ID associated with it ( maybe you could get it back to them and charge a repair fee , they may also just let you keep it and , if they 're VERY trusting , let you use their Apple ID password to take the iCloud lock off of it ) . If not , sell it as-is on eBay , where , depending on the model , you still might get $ 100 + , $ 200 + for it .
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
It is stored in the user 's Saved Application State folder , located at :
From what I can tell , wired memory belongs to the kernel , the innermost core of Mac OS X. It 's many layers removed from the icons in the menubar , which are just ordinary apps showing themselves in an odd way . Wired memory is used for some of the core functions of the operating system -- things like keeping track of all the applications on your system , or open files and network connections , or chunks of memory used by various drivers . The " page tables " that form a map of your system 's memory are also stored in wired memory , and a system with more memory needs larger page tables . I suspect that the memory used by the integrated video chips in most Macs is wired as well , but I ca n't find anything that says that outright . In any case , much of this information is needed to manage and access memory , and so it ca n't itself be swapped out to disk ! To understand why , imagine an enormous library . Think of , for example , the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford , which has eleven million printed items . There 's no way you could possibly fit all that stuff into a single building -- certainly not one in the middle of a university campus . So instead , imagine that the librarians construct a vast warehouse . ( The real Bodleian Library has about forty sub-libraries of various descriptions , plus storage for really rare books , but this is a thought experiment . ) Most of the books are kept in the warehouse , but anything that 's been used recently is kept in the library . If you show up at the library looking for a book , and it 's in the stacks there , you can read it immediately . If not , ask a librarian and the book you want will be transported from the warehouse and given to you the next day . The information in wired memory , then , would be things like the card catalog , keys to the book delivery trucks , and maps of the route to the warehouse . If you stored these things in the warehouse , you could never retrieve books to bring them back to the library -- so they must be kept in the library at all times , lest the whole system break down . Anyway , getting back to practical considerations : wired memory is basically used by your computer for internal bookkeeping of various sorts . You should n't worry about it . And do n't worry if you have lots of " inactive " memory and little " free " memory , either . Inactive memory is basically memory that Mac OS is keeping something in on the off chance it 's needed again ; if your system needs that memory for something else , it 'll be converted to free memory without any performance hit . To extend the library metaphor , imagine that the library keeps books that have been recently used in the stacks . The space is there in the stacks ; there 's no use leaving it empty , so you might as well keep the books you already have there . There 's no harm in it , and sometimes someone will be able to pick up a book immediately that he would otherwise have had to wait for . Similarly , inactive memory can only speed things up ; it ca n't hurt your computer , so do n't worry about it being too high . Really , you should n't worry about your memory use unless wired + active starts getting close to the 8 GB in your computer . That 's when you could get into trouble , because that 's when Mac OS will start consuming disk space to add " extra " memory , damaging performance considerably . Otherwise , you might as well have something in that memory . Ultimately , unused memory is just a waste of power -- if you have it , you might as well put it to use .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
. command - ( Terminal shell script ) Specifically associates a shell script with Terminal . Sometimes referred to as a " Terminal File . " . tool - ( Terminal shell script ) Same as the " . command " file extension . . sh - ( Shell Script ) A basic shell script that is associated with Xcode 4.1 . Programmatically , I 'm sure the difference between the first two ( . command vs. . tool ) are subtle , while the third is essentially a simple , default shell script . And does in fact associate with Xcode 4.1 .
An update for LaunchBar 6 Version 6.0 introduced a slick way of selecting multiple items . The LaunchBar folks call it the &#8220; Sixth Sense &#8221; . Selected items are held in a &#8220; staging area &#8221; and can be acted upon all at once using typical LaunchBar tools . Typing Command-A will select all items in the search list . Typing a Comma ( &#8220; , &#8221; ) will select the current item and allow you to move on to select more . Pressing Shift will scrolling up or down with the arrow keys select continuously as you scroll You can undo these actions by repeating them with a selected file . Hitting Escape clears the selections . The selection then works with other actions : Press Tab to send them to another folder , etc. . There &#8217; s a discussion at the <URL>
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
In his little-known novel , <URL> , Leo Tolstoy wrote , Optimally encoded PDF files are all alike ; every sub-optimally encoded PDF file is sub-optimally encoded in its own way . It 's hard for anyone to answer why your PDF files are larger after Preview modifies them . A PDF file consists of many different kinds of data : images , content streams , fonts , document overhead , color spaces , extended graphics states , and a cross reference table . Just like one sentence might be concise and another verbose , but both are valid English and say the same thing , so too one PDF file might have a more verbose way of representing the same content as a more concise PDF file . We 'd have to look at your exact PDF files . It 's likely that they were created by a variety of different pieces of software , some consise , some less so . It also matters what version of Mac OS X and Preview you are using , because that determine the software that writes the new PDF file when you do a Save As in Preview . I can , however , tell you what gets larger about some of my PDF files . This story applies to my computer , running Mac OS X 10.5.8 and Apple Preview 4.2 ( 469.5 ) . One file , , is a 22-page document with text as text , not scanned images . It is 461,092 bytes large . I opened it in Preview , did File ... Save As ... , and saved it under a new file name . The new file is 724,421 bytes , or 57 % larger . I opened each file with Adobe Acrobat Professional , version 8.3.1 for Mac OS . I did Advanced ... PDF Optimizer ... Audit Space Usage ... A small dialog box gave a break-down of how many bytes were due to each category of usage , plus the percent of the total file size for the category . The original has 390,754 bytes ( 84.75 % ) devoted to content streams , and zero bytes devoted to images . It is in the PDF 1.4 format . The file saved by Preview has 675,846 bytes ( 93.29 % ) devoted to content streams , also zero bytes of images , and is in the PDF 1.3 format . Preview made the content streams 285,092 bytes larger , and that represents 73 % of the file size difference between the two . I wondered if the PDF 1.3 file format was inherently less efficient for storing this kind of file . I opened the original in Adobe Acrobat Professional 8 , and did Advanced ... PDF Optimizer ... Make compatible with : Acrobat 3.0 and later and pressed OK . I saved the resulting file under a new name . The resulting file is in the PDF 1.3 format , and was 452,356 bytes , or smaller than the original . Its content streams are 375,171 bytes ( 82.94 % ) , a similar proportion , but smaller than the content streams of original file . Thus it seems we can conclude that the Preview app on Mac OS X 10.5.8 is not as efficient as some other PDF creators at making concise content streams in PDF files , and the difference is enough to account for three-quarters of the size difference in a PDF file without images . I did a similar experiment on , a 1-page document scanned from paper . The original file is 303,730 bytes , of which 298,197 bytes ( 98.18 % ) are images . A copy of this file created by Preview using Save As ... is 300,601 bytes , or 1 % smaller . This file size difference is more than accounted for by a smaller " document overhead " category of bytes in the file created by Preview . Thus it seems we also can conclude that Preview does n't always cause a PDF file to increase in size . It depends on the nature of the original PDF file , and how concise it was to start with .
end question
start question
How can I get my 13 inch MBP ( A1425 ) to display 4k ?
Straight from the <URL> for that model : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors Looks like that model does not support 4K displays
To see all graphics supported modes use the alt key before clicking on Scaled in display preferences . To see it in 19:9 use a Thunderbolt cable to a TV . ( assuming you have those ) If you have a Mac like I do ( MBA 2012 ) then using the Thunderbolt you can get up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on your HDTV .
The late 2013 Macbook Pro 13 " only has one fan . You can see here in <URL> . Apple do n't publish figures for normal working range temperature for their devices , and unfortunately you 'll find many and varied opinions online . Apple do publish <URL> if you are concerned that your Macbook is overheating though .
No . The app does n't currently have an override and simply takes the distance units from the system settings . It surely would be nice to have finer control , but the code is n't there to make a change today .
When this happens , it 's usually because the nickname field is also filled in . The nickname field trumps the phonetic first name field . So if you ever used the Siri command " Call me ... " she would automatically fill in the nickname field , making the phonetic field useless . To fix the problem , either write the phonetic spelling inside the nickname field , or delete the nickname field and write the phonetic spelling in the phonetic first name field . Tip : To hear her pronounce your name , you can ask her , " What is my name ? " The advantage of using the phonetic spelling field is that it expresses the property more accurately . However , I noticed that it has a flaw in that it messes with the sorting in the Contacts app ( especially if you sort by first name and include an accented character to help with the pronunciation ) . Therefore , you might want to use the nickname field instead of phonetic spelling .
It does n't appear that your MBP is capable of driving 2 4k displays with the Macbook 's primary display working ( see Graphics and Video support ) : <URL> Also the OWC Dock is n't capable of driving 2 4k displays so even if your MBP is capable of driving the displays you 'll need to use the HDMI port or one of the other Thunderbolt 2 ports to drive the second display : <URL> One thing you may be able to try is to close the Macbook to turn off it 's primary display , thus freeing up resources to try to handle both 4k displays .
This solution requires F.lux to be installed ( I assume it 's at ) . Create a text file ( let 's call it ) and put it in ( is under " Macintosh HD " and may be hidden ) . In Terminal , run Now you can run in Terminal ( or in another script ) to change the day temperature . Note that the script restarts F.lux so you may see the display jump to 6500 K for a split second before applying your requested temperature . It 's also possible to schedule this to run at predefined intervals , but that 's beyond the scope of this answer ( and the question ) . If you 'd rather have a launchable app that can toggle between 2 temperatures , Open Terminal and run these commands : Now you 'll see a greater than sign . Paste this : Wait for the prompt to appear , meaning the file was written . Now the finishing touch : Now you can launch the new app . You can customize the LOW and HIGH settings to your liking .
No , it will not void your warranty . If you refer to the <URL> , they clearly state only a deviation of the steps outlined may void your warranty : Follow the instructions in this document carefully . Failure to follow these instructions could damage your equipment and void its warranty . Online instructions are available at <URL> Typically , anything that is printed in the owner 's manual is covered under warranty . RAM and changing the hard drive are both topics that are carefully covered , so legally speaking , that means they are user serviceable . Anything user serviceable is covered under warranty ( following the above proviso of course ) . Unless it explicitly states in the manual that such modifications must be performed by a qualified technician , you will not be in breach of your warranty .
As far as I know AppleTV has no capabilities for this . What I 've done is simply to take a photo of the TV screen .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
At first , I thought there would be a straight-forward , albeit hidden , solution . However , after doing some digging , it seems that something that should be a simple swipe or click to do is more complicated than that . This is going to be a little long , but hopefully will be incredibly helpful . I was going to post this earlier today , but did not get the chance to make this whole post until tonight . Boxcar From what I 've seen , <URL> is one of the best ways to get push notifications for tracking hashtag mentions . Both the iOS app and the web client allow a user to add a varying amount of sources to get information from . Twitter , email , RSS feeds , etc. can all be collected into Boxcar and keep track of all of your updates . Boxcar is not made specifically for what you are trying to do but the iOS app has the option of adding filters , where a group of sources can be viewed as one folder and have a key phrase that is picked out from all the sources to create a push alert . What I did in Boxcar that worked was create an RSS feed using Queryfeed.net to generate an RSS feed for the term #hashtag . Queryfeed is extremely useful for this because Queryfeed can create an RSS feed for Twitter , Google + , and Facebook using specific search terms . After adding all the sources that you may want ( Twitter accounts , RSS feeds , etc. ) you can create a filter in the iOS app where you can select which sources you want in the feed , as well as other settings for updates . There is a lot of customization that a Boxcar user can do , especially in tracking certain hashtags or trends . It is a little more work than some may want to put in and it is not problem free ( in my experiments with Boxcar today there was definitely a lag in getting RSS updates at first , and the web client and iOS app are not exactly intuitive in their own unique ways ) but it definitely does allow someone to track and receive alerts for specific hashtags . IFTTT There is another option that I wo n't delve into as much as I did Boxcar simply because in my experience , it is a little more finicky . <URL> is an app that operates in If-Then statements . An example they use on their about page is as follows : if I post a picture to Instagram , then save that photo to Dropbox . " If " s are called triggers ( in this case , the mention of #hashtag on Twitter ) , and " then " s are called actions ( getting an iOS push notification when a tweet is made using #hashtag ) . Combined , triggers and actions make Recipes . A Recipe connects Channels ( the channels you would want to use are Twitter and iOS Notifications ) . In essence , IFTTT links one application 's actions to get a reaction from another . While the user interface is a bit easier than Boxcar , IFTTT Recipes are one trigger , one action . You can not , for example , have a feed like in Boxcar that searches for a specific term across multiple platforms , like finding the use of #hashtag in Facebook as well as Twitter . My ( limited ) personal experience with IFTTT is that occasionally Recipes do n't want to work and I did not have the patience to figure out why . However , IFTTT is supported in Boxcar , so trying both and seeing which works best for you wo n't be much of a hassle .
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
According to Apple ( <URL> ) : 4 MacBook Pro ( Retina , Mid 2012 ) , MacBook Pro ( Retina , 13-inch , Late 2012 ) , and Mac Mini ( Late 2012 ) computers can use an HDMI-compatible device on it 's HDMI port while using one Thunderbolt display , or they can use two Thunderbolt displays .
iOS does have an Armenian font and can therefore display Unicode Armenian in emails , webpages , and text . For input there are at least two apps that let you construct custom keyboards , and one of them , UniKey , comes with Armenian already : <URL> Beyond that or jailbreaking , I think all you can do is ask Apple to add it via their feedback channel . PS To see Armenian display on your iOS device you can go to <URL>
There is a <URL> which allows you to publish your books . <URL> .
The simple answer is that the MBP does n't have a screen that can display 1440x900 - it 's native resolution is 1280x800 ( ie . it only has that many pixels ) . This is a physical limitation , not a software limitation . There is no point in sending a higher resolution image to the screen , since it ca n't display any higher detail . I ca n't tell you why Apple chose a higher resolution display for the 13 " MBA than the 13 " MBP , given that I was n't party to those decisions . The reasoning may be purely historical , however . The white MacBooks had a resolution of 1280x800 . Apple introduced an aluminum unibody version of the MacBook with the same display in 2008 . By mid-2009 , Apple decided to rebrand the unibody MacBook as the 13 " MacBook Pro - still keeping the 1280x800 display . My guess is that they just have n't gotten around to changing it yet .
Sorry , but currently it 's not possible . Thunderbolt ports on Macs can output a Mini Displayport signal , but the Thunderbolt Display can only receive a Thunderbolt signal , nothing else . It 's possible that an adapter to do this could be released in the future , but IMO that 's unlikely or if it happens will be quite expensive .
This popover is built into the NSView class ( <URL> ) . Since ( as far as I can tell ) it is n't controlled or powered by a distinct system process , it is completely owned by the app that owns the view where the popover was triggered . In short , since the popover is owned solely by whatever app triggered it , there 's no way to get rid of a stuck one without killing its parent app . FYI , if the popover is n't dismissed with the escape key or by clicking outside of its body , something has gone wrong . I would file a bug report with the developers of the app where this happens .
No . Like all iOS applications coming pre-installed , Newsstand can not be removed from an iOS device . See the <URL> for corroboration .
end question
start question
Does the new iPod Touch ( iOS 4.1 / 4 gen ) require that you jail break it to use a Blue Tooth keyboard ?
A 4th generation iPod Touch ( or an iPhone 3GS or iPhone 4 ) running iOS 4.1 supports third-party bluetooth keyboards .
I have n't got my iPod Touch with me but this works on the iPhone if you go to Settings - > General - > Auto-Lock and set it to Never . That should work . Let me know if iPod Touch has removed this . Do n't know why they would have !
Having used 4.2 GM on my iPhone 4 for a couple of weeks now I personally find it much much better at managing and minimising memory usage ( regular checks using iStat ) . This should translate to better performance on older devices with limited RAM as less RAM to flash swapping will be required .
The other answer seems to be correct about the file system being HFSX , but on being case-insensitive ( other answer since edited to correct ) , I found that not to be the case in the book <URL> . On page 23 it says : In iOS , being the case sensitive HFSX by default , case is not only preserved , but allows for multiple files to have the same name , albeit with a different case . Naturally , case sensitivity means typos produce a totally different command or file reference , often a wrong one . [ emphasis above is mine ] Since that did n't agree with the other answer , I sought confirmation . I loaded a sample iOS project I was working on and changed the name of the database to only differ by case . After running the app on my iPad mini ( iOS 6.1 ) to re-create the database , I went into iTunes and looked at the files under File Sharing for the application . Here 's what I saw : So , it would appear Mac OS X and iOS Internals is correct : case is preserved and allows for multiple files to have the same name . Interestingly , when I selected both files in iTunes ' File Sharing and clicked " Save to ... " my desktop , I did not get any warning . iTunes apparently " saved " both files to my desktop , but only the initial-uppercase version survived ( presumably overwriting the initial-lowercase version of the file . )
According to the <URL> , the fourth generation iPod touch supports 802.11 b/g/n on the 2.4 GHz band . The first through third generations support 802.11 b/g , while the fifth generation supports 802.11 a/b/g / n on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands .
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
From the " Video Mirroring " section : You can use the Apple Digital AV Adapter or VGA Adapter to display the contents of your iPad 2 screen to a compatible TV , projector , or other external display . Note that it explicitly says iPad 2 . That is the only device which currently supports mirroring . While the 4th generation iPod touch supports the AV adapter , only applications with a video out mode will display anything through it . Most applications do n't support video out , and wo n't display anything on the connected screen . If an application does support video out , it will usually mention it in the features list in the app store , so you can tell before you buy an app whether it will support it or not .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
You need to install XCode 4.1 from the app store , which will replace XCode 4.0 with 4.1 . When updating XCode to 4.1 you will get a message to quit iTunes to continue the installation . The installation is actually waiting for iTunesHelper process to be terminated . You can terminate the iTunesHelper process using activity monitor . On my Mac the upgrade to XCode 4.1 failed . So I needed to uninstall XCode 4.0 first .
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
As @iampearce answered in the comments : If you 're manually syncing , grab the file from in iTunes and drag it onto the iPod itself . This will force it to copy over , and you 'll be able to see it happen in the progress bar .
The <URL> provides both a 30 pin connector for charging and/or syncing as well as a 3.5 mm audio output jack .
You can tap on an area of the picture you are taking to adjust the image settings ( including the exposure ) to that area of the image .
The answer from Apple Support is " Yes " , newer versions of the iOS software probably do disable support for " older " iPhone-compatible devices ( although likely " unintentionally " ) . The Apple Support representative advised downgrading the iOS version on my phone even though doing so would violate the terms of my AppleCare agreement ( and obviously , she could n't explain how to do it other than giving me some Google search terms ) . Moreover , she stated that with the release of iOS 5 coming up that I should hesitate to purchase any Apple iPhone or iPod accessories because they can not ensure compatibility . Unbelievable .
You can still download the IPSW files that contain iOS from Apple - <URL> . Just find the correct 5.1.1 file for your model . The problem is installing that IPSW . The trick to make iTunes use a specific IPSW instead of downloading the latest from Apple is to hold option ( shift on Windows ) while clicking the Update or Restore buttons . There is a limit to how long Apple will allow installations of old versions ( without using jailbreak-related hacks ) , so you 'll want to try this ASAP .
As you can find <URL> , in the Apple Developers webpage : Xcode 7 requires a Mac running OS X version 10.10.4 or later . It includes SDKs for watchOS 2.0 , iOS 9 , and OS X version 10.11 . As you see in the attached pic , Yosemite can still be valid to run XCode7 , if it is updated to the 10.10.4 + version required . <URL>
Have n't tried with text messages , but with Whatsapp and emails it does , unfortunately :( So to answer the second part of your question , yes notifications vibrates during call .
The only super major differences the 1st Gen Apple TV 's has from the new ones is the ability to store Movies , Music , Content , etc because they have a physical hard drive in them for doing those things . The other things is that they can connect to TV 's through Red , Blue , Green Component Cables . They also do not support Airplay with out a hack or a software fix . Also , the newest Apple TV , the 3rd Gen , allows for 1080p HD playback , where the older ones only support 720p HD playback . There are also a few other minor differences in size , power consumption , software options/OS and so on . The new Apple TV 's do not have hard drives or Component Cable outputs and support Airplay out of the box . Airplay is probably the biggest feature that makes people who do n't want to hack to jump ship to the newer box . It is pretty cool . The 1080 HD playback is nice , but depending on your TV , may or may not be noticeable/important . Some people like the older ones also because they can be hacked and used as linux computers ( <URL> ) with actual storage and since they can also store things on them , you can take it with you and have videos/music on it and not require internet for streaming your content . Though the biggest reason is most likely the hack-ability of them , they are tiny computers with a decent amount of power . And since they are n't sold any more and are still sought after , that would explain their above average price . The new Apple TV 's require internet of some kind or at least a local network for stream video and movies and data from a computer or the internet . They are also significantly smaller too , the older Apple TVs are much larger . You can see all the differences on their wiki page , it lays out the differences in features between the devices and even talks about most of the hacks that are available . Very informative . <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
end question
start question
Can I flash a PC Radeon 5870 for use in a Mac Pro ?
<URL> Netkas has a ROM at that link that works for 5870s . You might also get by without flashing by going the Hackintosh route and <URL>
Mid 2010 MBPs ( 7,1 ) with Geforce 320M are known for freezing when using faster ram . Motherboard chipset supports it , but graphics chip does n't and OSX freezes when initializes the graphics . My recommendation - buy 1066MHz DDR3 . If you ca n't find it in your local store , try <URL> , it 's a reputable online store that guarantees compatible ram at good prices . ps . I 'm not in any way connected with OWC .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Have you tried extracting them from your back up file ? See this <URL> .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
Take a look at this SuperUser question <URL> . It recommends installing and using the command : You can then use a tool like <URL> to trigger the command <URL> the power failure . <URL> I work on Power Manager , so feel free to ask technical questions .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
The MacPro uses a proprietary interface - at least when it was first designed - for their SSD 's It is a PCIe 2.0 x4 spec . It was called " proprietary " because no other " workstation class " computer used these types of drives . They typically went with SATA or SAS ( enterprise class of course ) The best price you are going to find for these drives is through <URL> . You may be able to win an auction on ebay , but for the time and hassle , I usually just went with Amazon . These drive only work with the " grey " cylinder MacPro . You can get more info from <URL> What you might want to consider at this point is sticking with the SSD that you have and adding a thunderbolt drive . I personally use the <URL> 6GB with my iMac ( iMac has 256GB SSD ) . It is super fast and expandable . It has user serviceable drives so you can upgrade anytime you want . There are other options out there , but after all my research , I picked this one and I have been extremely happy with it . Update ( 3.31.16 ) A year later and this has n't changed much . OWC is apparently the only aftermarket manufacturer of these SSD with the PCIe 2.0 x4 interface . As far as SSD options , they seem to stop at 2013 for the MBA . I know , I have a relative that spilled milk on an MBA and have been looking for a USB to 2014 MBA SSD enclosure to transfer data and I can find none under $ 100 . It seems that the 2015 MBA SSD will work in the Mac Pro as they use the same SSD model ( see below ) . Source : <URL> <URL> The 2014 MBA uses the PCIe 2.0 x2 so I can not say if it will work or not ( and I would be unwilling to test out this theory given the high cost of the components ) . Source : <URL> <URL>
No , as the first iMac which allows this is the 27-inch Late 2009 iMac , as explained <URL> . There are , though , some Applications which may achieve something similar , requiring both computers to be connected to the same LAN/WiFi/VPN , and sending all the information , the one to be displayed on the second computer working as a display , through it . Such as <URL> . You can find some more <URL> .
I found the answer in this <URL> post Create the AppleScript : Save in / Users/YourUserName/Documents / Microsoft User Data/Word Script Menu Items as Paste unformatted \ mosV.scpt ( the backslashed bit at the end of the filename provides the shortcut ) . Restart Word and you can now paste without importing extraneous styles with Apple-Alt-Shift-V .
It gets 120 + ° F here during the summer sometimes , which is approximately 50 ° C . In the shade it 'll be approx . 10-20 ° cooler , and indoors approx . 78 ° F with A/C . The A/C does n't run full time , so if you were to turn off your A/C while recording then turn it back on periodically , you should be able to maintain a reasonable interior temperature , both for you and the computer without it impacting your recording . Plus , if you have good headphones , the only times you 'd need to turn off the A/C is while using a microphone to record voices or acoustic instruments . Electric guitars and basses , amps , keyboards and synths should be going direct or be loud enough that ambient noise from the A/C should n't be a problem .
Well , of course , it was a problem with me . The search results only appear after having typed the whole query and pressed enter , which is a different behavior than the single word search where the results are updated as you type . Somebody had a similar problem <URL> .
You could add the 1600 MHz memory for your MacBook Pro even though it 's designed for a slower memory ( 1066 MHz ) - it ought to work , but you 'd be better off buying from a place that accepts returns . Here 's some relevant information from <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : Memory is designed to be backward-compatible , so generally speaking , you can safely add faster memory to a computer that was designed to run slower memory . However , your system will operate at the speed of the slowest memory module . In " DDR3-1600 PC3-12800 " " DDR3 " is the type ( and must be the same as what your computer has ) " 1600 " is the data transfer rate per second specified in millions ( the technical term is " clock frequency " ) - " 1600 " here means it supports up to 1600 million transfers per second - in your case , it will be slowed down to 1066 million transfers per second since that 's what your Mac is designed for " PC3-12800 " is the name used in the memory industry - 12800 indicates a peak transfer rate of 12800 MB/s ( of course , the actual performance in your case would be brought down to 8533 MB/s , matching PC3-8500 ) .
Sorry , but currently it 's not possible . Thunderbolt ports on Macs can output a Mini Displayport signal , but the Thunderbolt Display can only receive a Thunderbolt signal , nothing else . It 's possible that an adapter to do this could be released in the future , but IMO that 's unlikely or if it happens will be quite expensive .
Bring Finder to the front . Minimize all other apps with altcmdH . Then alt-click on the minus-button of one Finder window to minimize all windows to the dock . Reopen the destination folder by clicking on the appropriate dock ( Finder ) window icon located near the trash can and move or copy the file on the desktop ( tested with 10.7.5 Lion and 10.10.3 Yosemite ) . If you 've enabled " Minimize windows into application icon " in System Preferences - > Dock previously , right-click on the Finder icon in the Dock and choose the appropriate folder to open it ( tested with 10.10.3 Yosemite ) .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
If it 's a 2005-2009 model then NO ! You absolutely can not plug directly from a AC power source to a computer that does not have a built in transformer power supply , which the Mac mini 2005-2009 model does not have . The AC current must be converted to DC current first and that is what the Mac mini 's power supply does . Starting in 2010 the Mac mini used a built-in power supply and the power cord does not use a power brick like in previous modles , it plugs directly from wall to computer .
I have used everything from wired Bluetooth ( incl . Razer Naga and a bluetooth Logitech ) on all my Macs . All of the buttons on the Naga work via a control panel interface , and I have had no problem . Nevertheless , the " mouse feel " still is n't up to the standards of the native Mac mouses . No matter the setting , the acceleration goes from too slow to too fast in a heartbeat . It 's usable , but I keep going back to my Magic Mouse for everything but gaming ( in games where I need those extra buttons ) .
end question
start question
How to assign different ReFit icons for multiple Mac partitions ?
( Disclaimer : I have n't tried this personally . ) <URL> If I 'm understanding this page of the rEFIt documentation correctly , you should be able to take a 128x128 . icns image , name it " boot.icns " , and plop it in / System/Library/CoreServices on the partition whose icon you wish to change . ( rEFIt automatically searches for . icns images named the same way as the EFI loader file . On OSX , that file is / System/Library/CoreServices / boot.efi )
If I understand your request correctly , <URL> might be right up your alley . It allows you to assign custom abbreviations to text snippets and graphics for insertion anywhere .
The following AppleScript should work , which you can save as an application and put in your Finder toolbar .
Insert > File . You have to do it one at a time , but it appears to work .
There is a way ! If you go to your Settings > General > Reset , there is an option to reset the home screen layout . Pick that option and all your apps will be rearranged in alphabetical order . But you 'll lose all your folders and maps ...
The answer was to remove the stored value in KeyChain ( there were multiple for the user ; had to find the one specific to the IP of my NAS ) .
With the help of <URL> , I 've compiled a list of all the connectors used on Mac portables in the last decade or so . If you stick with machines since 2009 ( actually late 2008 discounting one iteration of the 17 " MBP ) , you can get away with just a mini-Displayport adapter . Adding to that a DVI and mini-DVI adapter will cover you every Intel ( 2006 and on ) portable ( as well as most G4 PowerBooks ) , except for the first MacBook Air ( of which there are n't many , but it requires a micro-DVI adapter ) . Mini-Displayport/Thunderbolt MacBook Pro 13 " and 15 " : Late 2008 and on 17 " : Early 2009 and on MacBook : Late 2009 and Mid 2010 MacBook ( Aluminum ) : Late 2008 MacBook Air : Late 2008 and on DVI ( full-size ) MacBook Pro : 2006 to early 2008 ; late 2008 ( 17 " only ) PowerBook G4 ( 15 " and 17 " ) : April 2002 and on Mini-DVI MacBook : early 2006 to Mid 2009 PowerBook G4 ( 12 " ) : September 2003 and on Micro-DVI MacBook Air ( original , early 2008 ) Mini-VGA iBook : May 2002 and on PowerBook G4 ( 12 " ) : January 2003 model ( PowerBook6 ,1 )
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
Assuming you want the domains to be synonymous ( e.g. richard@domain.com and richard@domain.co.uk both correspond to the same mailbox ) , it 's pretty easy . The trick is that the relevant configuration option is available in Server Admin.app but not Server.app . To get Server Admin , install the server admin tools ( v10 .7.4 is <URL> , be sure to get the version matching what you 're installing on ) , then open / Applications/Server/Server Admin . In Server Admin , connect to the server ( if it does n't autoconnect ) , then select the server name in the sidebar - > Settings in the toolbar - > Services tab - > enable the Mail service and click Save in the bottom right ( note : the Save button does n't highlight very clearly when there are settings that need saving ; just get in the habit of clicking it after doing anything ) . Once the Mail service is enabled , it should appear in the sidebar ( although you may need to click the disclose triangle next to the server name ) . Select Mail in the sidebar - > Settings in the toolbar - > Advanced tab - > Hosting subtab - > add the additional domain ( s ) to the " Local Host Aliases " list . Note : this configures the server to accept mail for additional domain ( s ) . In order for this to do anything useful , you also need to add MX records to DNS for the additional domain ( s ) , so other servers know to deliver the mail to your server . EDIT : to handle non-synonymous ( " virtual " ) domains , go to Server Admin - > Mail - > Settings - > Advanced - > Hosting , enable virtual hosting , and add the domain ( s ) to the " Locally Hosted Virtual Domains " list . Then , add aliases to your user accounts for their virtual email addresses . You can add aliases either in Server.app ( right-click on a user account and choose Advanced Options ) , or in Workgroup Manager by adding aliases to the Short Names list . For example , if you had domain.com as your primary domain , domain.co.uk as a host alias , and otherdomain.co.uk as a virtual domain , and your account was " richard " , you would be reachable as richard@domain.com and richard@domain.co.uk, but would have no address at otherdomain.co.uk . If you added " rich@otherdomain.co.uk " as an alias for your account , you 'd then also be reachable at that address ( but not at rich@domain.com or rich@domain.co.uk ) . Note : you can also add aliases in the file / etc/aliases ( e.g. add the line " rich@otherdomain.co.uk: richard " to get the effect I described above ) . If you do this , run and then to get the change to take effect .
Did you try Multiscreener ? I have used this in the past and worked flawlessly for 3 day runs . <URL>
As of right now , there are no disadvantages . In fact , my fiancée and I do this right now . We share an AppleID for store purchases and set up Home Sharing so that our iPads and MacBooks can share apps , but we have separate iClouds on our machines and everything works fine .
The flag icons are located in the file / System/Library/Keyboard Layouts/AppleKeyboardLayouts . bundle/Contents/Resources / AppleKeyboardLayouts-L . dat . The . dat file can be opened/read with the <URL> app . The . dat file is a flag " database " . To access the single flags in GraphicConverter use the pages drop-down menu at the bottom right of the main window . Several input method icons ( e.g. PNGs , TIFFs ) can be found at / System/Library/Input Methods/Input _ method.app / Contents/Resources / ... with Input_method . app one of the various IM.apps in / System/Library/Input Methods . The Custom Input icon may be this one : / System/Library/Input Methods/PluginIM . app/Contents/Resources / Custom.tiff .
According to the <URL> : On the desktop , contacts are currently populated from emails that are synced with Mailbox . We do n't have a way to import your contacts from your email accounts at this time . We 're planning multiple contact improvements down the road , including full contact integration in the future . On a side note , you know about the ban on questions for software not publicly released , but you did n't search the relevant website for assistance before posting ? Tsk , tsk . ;)
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
I 've changed the setup to use the same SSID for all APs and I observe much faster handover times , at least on my iOS devices . Have n't done yet any tests with Macs though . So far I have n't reduced power levels as @ScunnerDarkly suggested because I 'm satisfied with the results right now .
( Disclaimer : I have n't tried this personally . ) <URL> If I 'm understanding this page of the rEFIt documentation correctly , you should be able to take a 128x128 . icns image , name it " boot.icns " , and plop it in / System/Library/CoreServices on the partition whose icon you wish to change . ( rEFIt automatically searches for . icns images named the same way as the EFI loader file . On OSX , that file is / System/Library/CoreServices / boot.efi )
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
The feature you are looking for is called " DHCP " . This does exactly what you want , assign an IP address constantly given a specific MAC Address . Open up Airport Utility.app , click your Time Capsule , then " Manual Setup " . When the management dialog loads , click " Internet " up at the top , then " DHCP " in the category/tab bar . From there , you can click the plus in the bottom-left hand side of " DHCP Reservations " . This will open up a dialog that allows you to create a reservation via MAC Address , or " DHCP Client ID " . Fill in a system name ( does not necessarily have to be the specific hostname ) , click MAC Address , then Continue . Fill in the MAC address , choose an IP address , then click Done , and then Update the Time Capsule ! When the client computer next refreshes it 's IP address ( most computer 's do this once every two hours or so ) , it should pick up the new reservation , now and forever . Alternatively you can just shut the interface on the computer and turn it back one . Or go into Advanced and manually renew the lease . etc. etc. .
Using the built-in tool " Automator " , you can define a workflow to batch rename files . To do that , you will have to : Open Automator find it using Spotlight or in / Applications Create a new Workflow Type get into the search field Scroll to the bottom of the list of items and drag Get Specified Item from the Files &amp; Folders actions list on the left panel and drop it into the right panel Click the Add button and find your files Add the Sort Finder Items action followed by Rename Finder Items It the " Rename Finder Items " panel , select " Make Sequential " and " Add number to " Picture Hit the play button and you should be done Have a look <URL> or <URL> for an example tutorials on your specific renaming task at hand . An excellent overview of what Automator does and how powerful ( and simple ) it can be as a personal assistant - see the web page <URL>
end question
start question
How to set to open folder with enter in finder ?
Any person new to Apple and Mac would find lot of things un-intuitive or just forced on the user , w/o any options to change it . Or it might be that just many of us had their first experiences on Win/Linux systems . But just found this plugin to finder <URL> which among lot of other options allows you to ENTER/RETURN to open a file . Feeling a lot relieved now ! Hope it helps .
One option would be to use <URL> in a shell script : You could also use System Events to get the applications from the Open With menu : I did n't really test the scripts , but they 're probably affected by <URL> . Related questions at Super User : <URL> <URL>
This AppleScript code will toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox in Accessibility under System Preferences in OS X Yosemite ( tested under 10.10.4 ) regardless of what was last selected under Accessibility as it tells System Preferences to open directly to the location of the " Use grayscale " checkbox and toggle its state . The next issue is how you want to execute it . The problem surrounding setting it as a Service through Automator to use a Keyboard shortcut without the use of a third party utility is every application that receives the shortcut key combo will need to have permission to do so and that becomes a pain unless you only choose e.g. Finder instead of all applications . So without a third party utility I 'd either save it as a script in the Users Script folder and then access it from the Script menu in the Apple menu bar or as an application . The settings for the Script menu in the Apple menu bar are in the Script Editors Preferences . Then it 's just two mouse clicks anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . One to click the Scripts menu and another to click the script name . As an application it can be placed in the Dock and then it 's a single mouse click anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . In either of these two cases you 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully .
Try CtrlF2 - that should highlight the Apple-symbol on the main menubar . edit : The cursor keys and Enter then allow you to navigate , drill-down and ultimately select an item - just as you can on Windows . also - ca n't claim credit for this , I learnt it here on the site ! <URL>
In the Go menu of Finder , there is an option titled Go to Folder ... with the keyboard shortcut ⇧ shift + ⌘ cmd + G . This will prompt the user to enter a folder path and it allows Unix conventions ( like using to refer to one 's home directory ; for example refers to the Documents folder under your home folder ) . You can also type part of the file or folder name and hit Tab for autocompletion of the name . Note that you can go to any folder using this option ( including your own folders for documents , music , downloads , movies and so on ) , not just system files or folders . Although OS X , starting with OS X Lion 10.7 , started hiding important folders like ( the folder under one 's home directory ) , the file/folder permissions system in OS X ensures that unless a user has an administrator account name and password , they can not damage anything beyond what 's within their own home folder ( and the contents within it ) . Even if you disable this command , a user can still view system folders like , , etc. ( although the user wo n't be able to modify or delete anything there without administrator access/credentials ) . The user can also open up and navigate through directories that Finder does not show and cause damage to . If you still wish to disable it and remove this option in Finder : Open ( from ) Type the command : To enable it again , use the command ( replacing with from the previous command ) : In conclusion , I 'd suggest not to worry too much about it . Instead , the following may help better : Keep the administrative account separate from normal user accounts Ensure that user accounts are only shared with trusted people ( or preferably , have one user account for each real user ) Share the administrator credentials only with trusted users Removing the option is more like <URL> , and is not really a fool proof way to protect the system .
There is a <URL> where occasionally revealing files in Finder stops working and Archive Utilility stops responding whenever you try to extract an archive . As a workaround , you can terminate from Activity Monitor or with . ( Without - kill other processes stop responding . ) The issue will probably return within a few days or hours though .
As of Mac OS X Lion 10.7 , Terminal provides Services for opening a new terminal window or tab at the selected folder in Finder . They also work with absolute pathnames selected in text ( in any application ) . You can enable these services with System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Services . Look for " New Terminal at Folder " and " New Terminal Tab at Folder " . You can also assign them shortcut keys . In addition , you can now drag folders ( and pathnames ) onto the Terminal application icon to open a new terminal window , or onto a tab bar in a terminal window to create a new tab in that window . If you drag onto a tab ( rather than into the terminal view ) it will execute a complete command to switch to that directory without any additional typing . As of OS X Mountain Lion 10.8 , Command-Dragging into a terminal will also execute a complete command .
A solution is to create a temporary alias of your new folder . Create a folder in iCloud Drive . Right-click the folder and select . Drag-and-drop the alias folder ( little black arrow on folder symbol ) into your sidebar . You can now delete the alias folder ( NOT in the sidebar ) . Hope this helps , if not leave a comment .
Log into profile manager as an administrator using Safari and set up a profile for a user to change mail settings . <URL> You will want to spend time making sure DNS and SSL are correctly installed - starting with making a self-signed certificate if you do n't want to pay for a real SSL cert for your server . Here 's what to look for when you want to test setting IMAP settings for users . As you might be able to see - pick a user , then edit their settings and finally choose email .
You can add the System files and File visibility attributes to the filter bar : Files that start with a period are still excluded though . This makes Finder show hidden files : <URL> includes system files by default , but it does n't include hidden files unless you specify kMDItemFSInvisible = 1 .
( with the ↩ symbol ) opens the folder for browsing its contents ( unless you 're in column view ) . You need to press instead . It 's a different key , and its symbol is ⌤ . If you do n't have that key on your keyboard , you can press to achieve the same effect .
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
To disable local backups issue this command in terminal : This almost never is necessary as the system will automatically prune and disable local backups as your drive fills . You can search for backupd using the console app to see if and when the storage cleanup happens due to low space . There is a lot of confusion as to the purpose of local snapshots . It 's not to take snapshots that then get dumped to your actual Time Machine drive when you run a backup , it 's a separate set of snapshots that let you restore files you 've accidentally changed or deleted , when you 're away from your Time Machine drive . It 's not a true backup -- it wo n't help you if your laptop 's drive fails -- but it will help out if you 're on the go and you accidentally lose something while on the go . As such , they do n't get cleared out after TM backups . On my computer ( a Macbook Air with flash memory ) , it deletes old mobile snapshots after a week . The behavior may be different on devices with hard drives , as they do n't experience longevity issues with full disks . According to Apple 's documentation , they are n't deleted after a week . Note that the available space shown in Finder does not take into account the local snapshots , because they will automatically be deleted if you need the space , and it will automatically keep at least 20 % of your disk space free -- so you generally should n't worry about space taken up by local snapshots . However , if you do n't want them around , you can disable them with the command . This will free up the space taken by your local snapshots , and if you reenable it with , it 'll start again with an empty set of local snapshots . So , a quick way of clearing out what 's on there is to disable and re-enable local snapshots . You can see how many old backups are being stored by activating Time Machine . White tick marks indicate local snapshots , and purple ones indicate real backups . There 's more information <URL> and <URL> .
The location shown for the Go to Folder ... command in Finder is stored in the file in the key . To remove it , use the following command in Terminal :
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
This behavior wo n't happen in OS X by default , but a whole bunch of 3rd party window-arranging apps ought to be able to help : SizeUp <URL> Divvy <URL> Breeze <URL> ShiftIt <URL> Mercury Mover <URL> Optimal Layout <URL> Cinch <URL>
In Finder - View > Show View Options or Cmd ⌘ J Uncheck " use relative dates "
Add this to the CFBundleDocumentTypes array in : Change the default application back to Safari in Finder If the application is signed , modifying an Info.plist <URL> . It also makes a few applications like TextEdit and WriteRoom crash on launch on 10.8 .
end question
start question
Is Automator intended to create distributable stand-alone apps ?
It 's not really designed for this , but I think you can hack it to do what you 'd like . First , to get the relative path to the . app package , you 'll want to add a Run AppleScript action before your shell script . The code for the AppleScript should be something like this : That will pass the path to your . app bundle to your shell script action as an argument . Just set the Run Shell Script to pass input as arguments and you should be set to use the path in your shell script however you need to : Once that 's done , you can package whatever executables you need in the Contents/Resources folder of the . app bundle . You can get there in the Finder by right/command-clicking the . app and selecting Show Package Contents . Important Note : Automator rewrites the . app bundle every time you save it , so you 'll have to add the executables again every time after you make a change .
I 've found that I can do this by editing the file . Just added : to , and after reopening bash my alias command worked just fine .
Yes , Download <URL> again from the <URL> and create a bootable USB from the new downloaded files . Either by using Disk Utility or by using <URL> . Full tutorial <URL>
Note : with the release of iOS 9 you can now pull New York Times and other apps from Newsstand . What you ask is n't possible on stock iOS 7 . Newstand subscriptions are not treated as full fledged apps or Safari bookmarks that can be placed arbitrarily on the springboard .
New apps are never installed to the first screen . Instead , they are put in the first open space available from the second screen onward . If there is no open space for the app , then a new screen is created . This does seem like something that could easily be turned into a preference ; and , there may be a jailbreak setting already . But there is currently no way to override this behavior that is supported by Apple .
I usually use scripts like this instead of Automator services : If the clipboard is empty , trying to get it results in an error . pbpaste and pbcopy use ASCII if the locale variables are unset . I could n't get to work with non-ASCII characters though . Without the delay would sometimes be run before the text would get pasted .
Enable the Automator Log Automator 's Log panel should display more detailed error information . You can show it by clicking the Log item in the View menu ( or pressing ⌥ ⌘ L ) .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
Have a look at the <URL> command in the AppleScript Language Guide <URL> . activate Brings an application to the front , and opens it if it is on the local computer and not already running . I 'd add after the start of the handler .
What you need to do to re-download the Lion installer is to HOLD down the OPTION/ALT key whilst opening the App Store and keep holding it all the way through to the purchased tab , from here you should see the option to install . Just download that .
To-Do 's If you just want to create a To-Do list , you might look at third-party solutions like : <URL> ( free ) which ' rests ' in the menubar and has a beautiful GUI . <URL> ( free ) which provides sync between OSX , Win , iOS and Android However , if you want to use a feature provided by OSX , try <URL> . It 's Apple 's program for taking notes . Very minimalistic and fast . format how you like edit with hyperlinks drag and drop pictures export as * . txt use & #x 2318 ; + N to create a new note use & #x 2325 ; + & #x 21E5 ; to create a list within the stickie with right-click you get to customize the list Contextual Menu item There used to be <URL> which added the Windows-like feature to OSX . Unfortunately , the software has n't been updated in years . There is commercial solution available now : <URL> This applications adds " Create Document ... " and " Create And Open Document ... " menus to various places , including the main menubar , the Dock , and the Services menu that the Finder shows when you right-click on something . You can also trigger Neu from any application using a special key combination .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
The App Store should show a list of apps in the Update tab that have been updated , with details such as when it was updated , the changelog and a button to open the app .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
Yes you can , using the following code . Note that the UniqueID , if less than 501 , may not list the user in the Accounts pane of system preferences , depending upon the OS version . Be careful that it is not already assigned to another user account . You can assign a home folder outside of the normal / Users / hierarchy with : If you want a clearer name to show up in the accounts preference : If you su to the new user without having set a NFSHomeDirectory , the $ HOME defaults to .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
It looks like the TexturePacker program includes the ability to process images from the command-line , which you could then batch process with a script . You 'll first want to install the utility by clicking Install Command Line Tool under the TexturePacker menu in the app . Then I 'd suggest having a look at the <URL> , which includes the command-line parameters for most of the options in the app . Have a look at that , and see if you can get the actions you need on the command-line . If you need help turning those into a batch processing script , I 'd suggest coming back and amending your question with the specifics .
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
As the keychain assistant wo n't let you make a new keychain with no password , you might have to make a new user with no password , and use that keychain for your purposes .
Back up your iPad to your computer or iCloud , and pull a factory reset on the sucker . I know that some people have been having issues with iOS 5.0.1 , and that a complete wipe/reset is necessary to fix some issues . I hope this helps , and good luck !
end question
start question
How do I type a ² or a ³ on an Apple keyboard ( International English layout ) ?
There are some important gotchas with the other solutions posted here . For one , <URL> only work in Cocoa apps . If you want a truly system-wide solution that works in all applications , this is not an option . Also , <URL> , but relying on them means you have to keep the app running in the background all the time , which may not be what you want . Custom keyboard layouts to the rescue Luckily , remapping keys can be done in a way that will work for any type of application , and without any additional software ! Mac OS X has supported files since version 10.2 ( Jaguar ) . You can create your own keyboard layout , or rather , tweak the default one you 're using right now . Simply remap a keyboard combination you never use ( for me , there are plenty of those ) to the and symbols , and that 's it . In <URL> , I can simply press + + to enter , and + + to enter . ( <URL> has these mappings , too . ) How to create a custom keyboard layout To create new keyboard layouts or modify existing ones , I 'd recommend <URL> . It has an option to create a new keyboard layout based on the one that 's currently in use . After you 've created your custom layout , there 's no need for the application anymore -- you certainly do n't need to keep it running in the background . How to install a custom keyboard layout Copy the file to the folder within ( if you want to install it only for the current user ) or ( if you want to install the layout system-wide ) . Reboot ( if you installed the layout system-wide ) , or log out and log in again ( if you installed it for the current user only ) . Enable the new keyboard layout via System Preferences ' Language &amp; Text ' Input Sources . How to make a custom keyboard layout the system default Optionally , you could <URL> by running the Setup Assistant with root privileges . This way , it will be used for the login screen , and any new user accounts you create will default to this layout as well . Note that this can only be done for keyboard layouts in ( i.e. , layouts that have been installed system-wide ) . You will have to create a new user account in order to complete the Setup Assistant -- but do n't worry , you can delete the new account afterwards . Adding a custom icon to the keyboard layout OS X will use the following default icon for your custom keyboard layout : This icon will show up in the preference pane , and in the " Input menu " in the menu bar . To replace this with your own icon , create a 16 × 16px image , and save it in format in the same directory as the keyboard layout itself , using the same file name ( only the extension differs ) . For example , my custom QWERTY layout is named , so if I wanted to use a custom icon , it 'd have to be named .
Ars Technica did an <URL> and one that <URL> of an Apple installed Fusion drive from a Mac Mini . From that article : As you can see , the recovery partition is " outside " the Core Storage volume which gets mounted by the OS and functions as " the Fusion Drive " . The Fusion Drive is comprised of one standard partition from each disk , rather than using the full drive and storing the configuration data out of or in-band by hiding it . Everything we know so far about standard Fusion Drives is pretty straightforward and transparent .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
The answer to your new question is the US International PC layout provided by Apple .
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
Got it . Open the XML file in TextEdit ( or some other XML editor of your choice ) . Scroll to the very bottom . Look for : PayloadDisplayName Orig Profile PayloadIdentifier orig.profile Change these two instances Orig to Dup or some other unique name . Save file . Go to configurator > import > point to file - it imports as ' dup profile ' with all other settings in tact . ( I suppose you could also make XX copies of the XML file and edit each one , but it is easier just to leave the file open in TextEdit , make a change , save , import , make a change , save , import , lather , rinse , repeat . )
You can do it from the substitutions list in System Prefs > Keyboard > Text , as in the example below . The brackets are there in the example purely to make it file to the top [ otherwise it gets mixed in with all my personal ones &amp; I 'd have to blur them all out ] Just hit the + button at the bottom , type to enter your trigger , then double click in the result field &amp; type your desired output string . If you copy/paste into the output string , you can include carriage returns , for a full postal address etc , but you ca n't insert them manually . Once setup , as soon as you hit the spacebar after a trigger keyword , it will auto-replace . Toggling ' correct spelling automatically ' will change whether it suggests it to you before you 've finished typing or not - as soon as it 's recognised the correct replacement , space will trigger it , if ' auto ' is on . To avoid triggers which would otherwise be possibly confusing I always use ncsomething , historically because my originals used to be stored on NoteCards , but also now because I know of no word in English that starts with nc . So ncemail generates my email address , ncmobile for my phone number etc etc. . . I 've found over the years that using a distinct word is easier to remember than a very short abbreviation , unless it 's one you use a lot . As a bonus , you can also use it for spelling mistakes that are n't usually picked up by the normal spell-checker ... For example I frequently type pice instead of piece ; for some reason spellcheck never picks that up so now it 's in my substitutions list . iCould is also one that gets past the checker , so I have one to fix that too , back to iCloud Any changes you make to the substitutions list are ' live ' immediately , you do n't even need to close the window .
If the <URL> does n't work for you , I would suggest making a custom keyboard layout with <URL> ( or if you prefer text-based editing , <URL> ) . Alternatively , if you do n't need quite the level of speed that can offer , you can simply use the Character Palette ( Edit > Emoji and Symbols ) to type the characters by double-clicking them . To get the " Phonetic Alphabet " pane to show up , customize which are visible with the gear icon in the top left .
Adding dictionaries is possible . Finding the one you want may not be . See <URL> For info on creating dictionaries for dictionary.app , see <URL> <URL>
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
With iOS 4 and above , you can pair a Bluetooth keyboard to the phone . That 's the hardware keyboard for which you 'd be specifying the layout .
Right Option ( Alt ) v s You must have U.S. Extended keyboard layout enabled for the above to work .
On an American English keyboard you can type the European Currency symbol ( $ ) with Option + Shift + 2 .
Found some interesting solutions in the article <URL> . Someone in the comments of this article mentioned the app <URL> and this seems to be more along the lines of what I was looking for with more a seamless Finder integration and maintaining folder appearance , not sure if it works on just single files the same way , will need to try it . Eg I have a important Tax Documents folder , and now I have a Tax Documents Folder Encrypted , and not now I have a Tax Documents disk image file sitting there instead of a folder .
The built-in iOS keyboard does not support this , but you can add a shortcut from Settings > General > Keyboard . This way you only have to copy/paste once .
It 's not possible to connect it to a Mac . The <URL> says that it 's only compatible with the iPad . Note that the full product name is " iPad Keyboard Dock " . Here are some ways you can use the iPad Keyboard Dock , though : Connect the dock to your computer with the USB cable included with your iPad to sync iPad and charge its battery . Connect the dock to an electrical outlet using the iPad 10W USB Power Adapter ( included with your iPad ) to charge the iPad battery . Use the dock to hold your iPad at the perfect angle to compose email and notes using the keyboard or to watch your favorite videos or photo slideshows . Connect the dock to a TV or video projector using a compatible cable such as the iPad Dock Connector to VGA Adapter or the Apple Component or Composite AV Cable . Connect the dock to a stereo or speakers using an AV cable or a stereo audio cable to play music from iPad .
Option-U does work under Dvorak -- but you have to use the Dvorak key-mappings , so really it becomes Option-F . If you 're still not happy with it , you might try this online tool to create your own custom keyboard layout : <URL> It has n't been updated in six years , so no guarantee it will work on the latest versions of OS X.
French layout ? Press caps lock ⇪ . Press the é key ( that 's the 2 on a QWERTY ) . Press caps lock ⇪ again . But you need to make sure you 're using the French layout , and not French - numeric ( " Français - numérique " , French flag with " 123 " beneath it ) . Otherwise , you 're explicitly asking the system to use the caps lock key as a shift lock for the numbers bar on the top of the keyboard !
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
end question
start question
How to exclude Mail messages from Finder search ?
It is inconvenient , but if you add after your search term in the Finder , it will exclude Mail messages too .
It sounds like the account type might be POP instead of IMAP . POP stores messages and all message attributes on each client ( iMac , iPad , etc ) . IMAP stores messages and attributes on the server , so every client has the same view of the messages ( including unread/read state ) . So , the solution for you is to use IMAP if the account supports it .
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
Set the service to receive selected text , then add a Run Shell Script action with the following content , setting the shell to / bin/bash and passing the input as arguments . Replace the URL with your desired URL , where is where you would like the selected text to be inserted in the string . Also , that 's all you need for a Google search -- do n't bother with the additional session parameters .
Go to the " Settings " app " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Tap on your Gmail account In the dialog that comes up tap the big red " Delete Account " button at the bottom .
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
You can effectively turn off push notifications for a particular email account ... sort of . Go to the Settings app , and hit " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Go to " Fetch New Data " , then scroll down and go to " Advanced " . For the email account whose little red badges you do n't want , change the setting to " Manual " instead of " Push " . This will prevent new messages from pushing a notification icon to the home screen . However , when you open the Mail app to check your other email , the app will sync the " Manual " account with the server and you 'll get a badge if there are unread messages there . So , like bmike mentioned , the real way to get rid of those badges is to get closer to inbox zero .
I recommend <URL> , which gives you a hovering command prompt . It can automatically detect the current folder you 're in ( in Finder , or any document-based app ) . You can press return to run a command in the DTerm window , or ⌘ + return to open a Terminal window .
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
This has been FINALLY fixed in IOS 7 . Now you can remove contacts from this cache . As soon as the unwanted contact pops up while you 're typing in the " to : " field , you can tap on a little " i " ( probably for " info " ) icon on its right , and have a menu appear where you can remove the contact , or add it back to your address book if you feel so inclined .
Any person new to Apple and Mac would find lot of things un-intuitive or just forced on the user , w/o any options to change it . Or it might be that just many of us had their first experiences on Win/Linux systems . But just found this plugin to finder <URL> which among lot of other options allows you to ENTER/RETURN to open a file . Feeling a lot relieved now ! Hope it helps .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
Carefully move the pointer to the left side of the finder window border till the cursor changes to arrow pointing to the right . ↦ Hold and Drag to the right . If that did not work you need to restore the finders preferences . In terminal run and Restart .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
uncheck ( If you 're in List view or Icon view , click to make it the default ) . Repeat for each view mode as necessary . Hope this helps ...
Unfortunately this is something that is n't possible . As you are aware , the only control we have over any double-clicking in the " Double-Click Speed " in Mouse preferences . Any changes here would be undesirable as it would affect the entire system and your goal is just the Messages app . There is a convenient keyboard shortcut , Command + W , to close the new window that comes up , so at least you do n't have to go over and manually close the window . I suppose this is a feature request that does n't come up very often but you could at least do what you can and <URL> .
Yes , in iOS 8 you can set a limit to the time period of the messages . So , not an actual amount - like the 200 messages on your Android - but you can limit it through Settings > Messages > Keep Messages menu option where you 'll see the following flavors : Forever 1 Year 30 Days
You ca n't do this in the OS X Mail client . Mail.app will download all your emails available on the server . The workaround is to make the change on the server . You mention that you have Gmail , therefore you can go to Gmail 's IMAP settings and restrict the amount of emails available ( for example , the most recent 1000 ) . Also , you can exclude labels from being visible to IMAP , therefore Mail wo n't download the contents .
I think you 've dragged the right edge of the middle list all the way to the right , which then hides the preview of the messages . If you hover your mouse of the right edge of the scroll bar on the right you should get the draggable crosshair mouse pointer . Hold it and drag left and you should get the previews back .
end question
start question
How can I leverage multiple iTunes libraries in a LAN to create an office jukebox ?
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
I 'm afraid not . iCloud is designed for iOS devices without a user accessible file system . iCloud files are strictly associated with apps and only allow one level of folder nesting . If you 're not happy with this , you can send feedback to Apple about it here : <URL> You could use Dropbox instead ( https://www.dropbox.com/ ) which has more flexibility around file organisation . The downside is that you only get 2GB free but you can earn more free storage in various ways . Google Drive ( https://drive.google.com/start#home ) gives you 5GB free .
Reminders You can create a service using the Automator : Open Automator.app Select Service For Reminders : Add action Ask for Text to prompt for a new To Do Add action New Reminders Item Save Service Create Shortcut in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Keyboard & #x 2192 ; Keyboard Shortcuts & #x 2192 ; Services & #x 2192 ; Text Notes See Mohamad Elwan 's answer for notes
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
There is an HD flag you can set in the file 's header . You ca n't set this flag from iTunes . The best solution on mac is <URL> . It was updated to support the 1080p value , so you can set the flag to 1 ( 720p ) and 2 ( 1080p ) , the only values recognized by iTunes . You will find the flag in the other settings tab :
Have a look at " Combining PDF files on the command line in OSX " in <URL> . It turns out that from Tiger onwards , OSX ships with a Python script that does exactly what you need . The script is already executable , and Python is pre-installed on OS X , so all you need to do to run it is opening the Terminal and typing Also on the linked page it suggests making a symbolic link for the file to make typing easier however they omitted the in , and without it , a hard link is created . Probably would n't matter , however though I 'd mention it .
It turns out that an IOS5 device is n't required ; you can create the account with a computer running Lion . The trick is to create yourself an Apple ID ( I used iTunes but there may be other ways , perhaps a free Developer account ? ) . Then use Lion 's iCloud pane to create an iCloud account with the ID . With iCal , create an iCloud calendar . Now delete the calendar from the Lion machine . Buy the Lion machine 's owner a beer or flowers as appropriate , or thank the Apple store genius . :) Go to your Snow Lion machine , log into iCloud.com and change the account password .
If you remove the Microsoft Database daemon from login and do not open Entourage you should receive no notifications .
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
Go to settings > General > Accessibility > Scroll down > AssistiveTouch Turn it on . Then you just click the home button and it gives you the option of screenshot if you do this : Click device > More > Screenshot and you are done !
As the keychain assistant wo n't let you make a new keychain with no password , you might have to make a new user with no password , and use that keychain for your purposes .
There 's no built-in functionality to download lyrics in iTunes , but there 's a slew of software designed for this purpose : Windows : <URL> <URL> <URL> OS X : <URL> <URL>
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
Where is the iTunes library directory ? What is its filesystem location ? Go to iTunes > Preferences ... Choose the Advanced tab . There you will find the path to your iTunes folder . If I move my library from the laptop and to an external USB-connected drive , will my music and TV shows still play ? Yes , if iTunes knows where to find them . See following question . I 'd like to keep some of my music on the local drive so I can actually listen to it when I 'm out and do n't have the external drive with me . Is there a way to do that ? Under the Advanced tab in the preferences , make sure Keep iTunes Media folder organized is checked . Choose Change ... next to iTunes Media folder location to choose a new location on your external drive . Then click OK . Now go to File > Library > Organize Library , select Consolidate files and click OK . iTunes will now copy your files to your external hard drive . The files on your internal drive will be retained . Go to your original iTunes Media folder on your internal drive and drag it to the Trash . Do not empty the trash before making sure that you can quit and relaunch iTunes and play songs without any trouble . Now move any music files you want to be on your internal drive to a folder on your internal drive . When you move these files , iTunes will not be able to find them , as iTunes will look for them in the folder on your external drive . This will result in dead listings with exclamation marks if you try to play them . See this answer to remove dead listings : <URL> . Now go to iTunes > Preferences ... and to the Advanced tab again . Uncheck Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library . Choose File > Add to library ... and select the media files that you moved to your internal drive . Cheers . For the record , it is also possible to have more than one iTunes library and choose which one to load when starting iTunes . The above solution allows you to have one library with files at different locations .
As I understand it you want to alternate between using the iMac display to display a ) itself b ) a connected MBP c ) a simultaneously connected Mac Mini When you enter Target Display Mode , you do this on the target , i.e. the iMac . There is no option to tell the iMac which connected computer to display , if there are multiple connected . According to <URL> in the section Exit Target Display Mode it mentions , " Your iMac also exits Target Display Mode if you disconnect the cable that connects the two computers , or if you shut down or sleep either computer " I have since tested with a Late 2012 iMac 27 " , Late 2013 15 " Macbook Pro , and a Mid 2011 , 13 " , Macbook Air , all running Yosemite . a ) I first connected the MBP and iMac via Thunderbolt cable , and pressed Command-F2 on the iMac . This caused the iMac to go into target display mode and displayed the MBP . b ) I connected the Macbook Air , via a second Thunderbolt cable and this caused the iMac to exit target display mode ( as both the Macbook Air and the MBP were not sleeping ) . c ) I put the MBP to sleep ( by closing the lid ) , and pressed Command-F2 on the iMac . This caused the iMac to go into target display mode and display the Macbook Air . d ) I then alternated target display mode by alternately putting the Macbook Air and the MBP to sleep and pressing Command-F2 on the iMac . This all seemed to work ok , except one annoyance and that was the iMac seemed to have a dim display every time I entered target display mode . I had to manually adjust the brightness of the iMac display , using the display settings . NB : From step b ) that you can not have the two computers connected to the iMac awake at the same time and have the iMac in Target Display Mode . At least one of the computers connected must be sleeping . The linked Apple support page fails to mention that .
Unfortunately , Apple is not using itunes-aware tags in its RSS feed for the latest movie trailers . instead of something like So , when you try to subscribe to , iTunes claims the content is text-only or missing . However , if you are using Apple Mail , you can add this feed to Apple Mail and it handles it quite nicely . It does n't download the movies automatically but at least you see when there are new ones .
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
end question
start question
Can you set specific apps to NOT auto update on iOS ?
No , it 's not currently possible to set auto update for specific apps . You have to turn Auto Update off at the App Store level then review each update notice you receive to determine if you want to update that app or not .
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
From <URL> : <URL> Cabel Sasser on what it 's like for existing Mac apps that are now in the App Store : PS : If you 're a current customer , there 's no way to convert a previous purchase into a Mac App Store purchase -- that requires a re-buy . But remember , what you have now will continue to work just fine . UPDATE : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store .
From what I 've noticed with universal apps , and also with iPhone only apps between my devices is that sometimes an update might come one day to one device and the next day to another and at the third day the last one gets it . Might be that Apple does this so their servers wont be overloaded when everybody updates the same app at the same time . You should also check that you 've released the update to all platforms , not only iPhones .
Before Family Sharing , you could take someone else 's iOS device and sign in to the app store with your account and download all/any apps you choose . At that point , your password was needed to update , but signing out did n't delete the apps or in any other way prevent them from working . Let 's set aside in-app purchases for the time being . Family sharing changes this in that when someone joins the " family " - their Apple ID is used to download and update other family member apps . They do not show up in your purchases , they show up as the other named family member 's purchase . All that changes is the password needed to install and update . When you as a family member remove yourself from the plan - you get a warning that lists what will happen and basically , you immediately lose access to the purchases , photos , calendars and other items that were shared in the plan . Rejoining the family would then let you re-download and re-sync the items . You 'll probably want to find a better way to use the family service than routinely joining and leaving or skip the family share and use the older method of signing in to multiple devices which does n't immediately remove/revoke the items .
It seems that apps that the only apps that are directly removable from Launchpad have to be installed through the App Store . For every other app , you can simply do it the old fashioned way : Open programs Select ' open in finder ' Delete the app that you want to delete Many people are using folders to reduce clutter of apps shown in Launchpad . ( while eagerly awaiting either an update or some tools to manage Launchpad layouts . )
Because a one-size-fits-all auto-brightness setting is going to be unpleasant for a large number of users , either because the automatically-selected levels are either too difficult to see , too bright , or eat too much battery . The automatic setting is based on the threshold you set specifically so that the device can " figure out " ideal settings within a range that you can tolerate . More to the point , I have a question for you . Is there a point on the auto-brightness slider that you 're comfortable with ? If not , that should be all the proof you need that the slider is necessary ! If there is a setting that looks ideal all the time , you 've got nothing to complain about - the system works for you .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
There wo n't be a problem . I 'm not 100 % sure that upgrading to iOS 8 will be in your best interest , though , because I 've seen lots of reports of people with 4Ss having performance problems on iOS 8 .
You can use <URL> . The way it works is that it ... ... pull ( s ) a virtual shade over your screen ... dimming the display to a more comfortable level . Shady will save your shade level and restore it next time you launch the app . As it 's just a virtual ( but effective ) dimming method , I doubt that this saves much energy , but I can not confirm this as LED displays should consume less power if displaying darker colors .
Since you mentioned Firesheep , let me put in a plug for <URL> : Sheepsafe was built to automate the task of switching your network configuration to use a SOCKS proxy whenever you join an untrusted network . Sheepsafe works by keeping a configuration of known safe wireless networks . When you join an untrusted network , Sheepsafe switches to a network location that has a SOCKS proxy configured and starts a SOCKS proxy by SSH ' ing into a remote server , thus protecting your browsing traffic from FireSheep and other snoopers on the local network . When you switch back to a safe network , Sheepsafe switches back to the default , trusted location and shuts down the SOCKS proxy .
When you connect your iPad/iPhone you choose your device in left column under the Devices section , then got the Apps tab and select the Apps you want to sync ( Screenshot in german but looks the same in english ) : Afterwards select " Synchronize " at the bottom right to update your iDevice .
Update : I have discussed this with someone who has specifically tried this . I now understand what happens here . The answer is no , with one notable exception . Having looked through Apple 's documentation , I have found conflicting information . First , the <URL> describes going into Device Firmware Upgrade ( DFU ) mode and Recovery mode . It states that from either mode , the device must be restored to factory default settings . However , that is in direct conflict with the link it provides to recovery mode . The <URL> puts you on <URL> . On this page it states that if you choose the Update option , iTunes will try to reinstall iOS without erasing your data . I now know this line to be a simplification . In this scenario , when iTunes reinstalls iOS , it 's only option is to restore the iPhone to factory default settings . If you have logged into your phone but have n't rebooted it , and you have previously synced it via iTunes , you can backup the contents using the same computer . So in this case iTunes will backup the contents , reinstall iOS with a restore to factory default settings , then restore the contents from the backup . Once the iPhone is rebooted , you can only restore to factory default settings . You can restore the contents of a previously made backup , but you can not backup the data from the phone .
It looks like every app determines what to show on its notifications ; I do n't see a global switch . You can , however , turn the lock screen notification off . Find it on Settings > Notifications > [ App ] , look for " Show on lock screen " and turn it off to disallow the app to show its notifications when the phone is locked . Skype does not have the " Show Previews " switch available at the Notifications settings for Messages -- and I ca n't find anything about that subject on the <URL> , but <URL> of <URL> <URL> the <URL> with no response -- so it appears that each app controls what it 's shown on the notification .
This depends on the " Flash " settings you select : Flash-Auto : HDR - Auto Flash-Off : HDR - On Flash-On : HDR - OFF So , whenever you force the Flash ON , HDR reverts to OFF . Alternatively , turning Flash OFF retains the HDR ON setting
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
Whilst you ca n't restrict the size of Time Machine backups on a Time Capsule , you can reserve space for other files and Time Machine will expand to the remaining space . Open Disk Utility and go to File → New → Blank Disk Image ... . Give the image a file name , then select the options that you would like at the bottom of the window . Here you set the size that you want to reserve for other files . The others should be set to default ( but you can have a custom name ) . Select your Time Capsule → Share as the destination for this image . Click Create . You can then store any files you wish inside this disk image and Time Machine will not intrude upon the space you selected when you created the image . You can change the size of the image later if you have sufficient space using the Resize button in Disk Utility .
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
If the problem you 're experiencing is that the iPad connections trigger a New iPad activation dialog , you can turn this off by typing this terminal command when iTunes is not running : You can turn on the new iPad Activation dialog with this command : Remember , iTunes can not be running when either of these commands is run .
It is unfortunately not ( yet or ever ? ) officially supported as a feature of iOS .
end question
start question
Can Numbers ’09 import an Excel XML file ?
I ended up changing the output to native . xls format by using the php wrapper from <URL> . The files now open fine in both native windows Excel and iWorks Numbers ' 09 .
You can use VNC to log into the mac from a client machine ( iOS , android , PC , Mac ) and establish the UI session , set excel to launch at boot and set the user account to automatically log in . You also will want remote access to the computer ( allowing ssh , and perhaps remote apple script ) so you can use and or perhaps another Mac to script things directly from <URL> .
On stock iOS , different contact numbers or email addresses are given their own " conversation " . <URL> still applies , even on iOS 6 .
There is a Bash/Terminal/Command line command that might help to import DNS zone data into Mac OS X Lion its DNS server . Issuing this command creates a zone file ( in this example for " domain.tld " ) with some default settings and without any host records . The created zone file with default settings now looks like : With the command below you can create ( import ) default DNS zone records for each domain that is listed on a separate line in a file named " domains.txt " . And when your source DNS server allows zone transfer ( axfr ) the script below can be used to copy the DNS zone data from the old server to the new Mac OS X DNS server . Note : you need to change " ns1.mydns.net " to the host name or IP address of the server you are trying to import from .
Though I do n't have a tool now , I guess it can be done in couple of ways . Yes , no one click solution . Email each url to your personal instapaper id ( <URL> ) Can parse your export list and use simple API from Instapaper to add the links to your account . <URL> Update : As I said earlier , it is not a one click solution but doable . As a matter of fact , I did create an extension for chrome to do this . Here is the link <URL> Update 2 : The source of the extension is available @ <URL>
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
You can and you ca n't at the same time . Safari will load the PDF automatically and display it but it will offer a " Open In " button where you can send the PDF to another application if it is configured by the developer to accept PDFs ( eg . iBooks , GoodReader , etc. ) At present there is no way to direct it directly to another application unless that application will take a URL you could copy and paste .
You are probably dealing with an AutoRecover issue . The Office programs will try to reopen documents that are open when the programs crash ( a Force Quit is essentially a crash to the programs ) . <URL> explains what 's going on and how to recover from the problem . To quote the relevant part : AutoRecover saves files in the folder . These files are hidden , and their file names starts with . You can see hidden files if you navigate to the folder above in Finder , type ⌘ F , and choose FIle Invisible from the Kind dropdown - if that 's not an option , choose Other ... , and check the File Invisible checkbox - and set it to Invisible . Try making the hidden files visible , then moving them to the Desktop , then start Excel . Of course , if you 're using Office 2004 or Office 2011 , they will have their own AutoRecovery folders .
There is little hope unless one or both of the editors squirrel away copies of the file for you or embed the undo buffer in the document . It really depends on the editors and the settings . One last ditch effort is to use the command . If that file had a memorable string or misspelling you could see in an instant if any files on the disk contain that string . If you search for a common string , you 'll have a lot of false positives , but it 's worth a shot . In this case , even software that recovers deleted files wo n't be of use when another editor truncates the file . It was shredded and not simply deleted On a personal note , We all learn this lesson about data loss in a personal way , usually many times over . It 's not overkill to have both version control and an automated backup system . Time Machine is marvelous in that it makes hourly snapshots so you lose at most an hours work . Files that have been around for [ a day | a week ] are saved for [ a month | until the drive fills ] . It really works well in practice , and if you have local backups , you might even have snapshots more often than one an hour to recover a file . Sorry to hear you lost work , it 's never a good feeling .
First , ( Automator - > New - > Service ) to paste the code , and then ( System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services ) to bind the Service to a keyboard shortcut . BetterTouchTool Karabiner
In general yes - but there are some functions that are only in Excel . Googling found <URL> for OSX Numbers
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
No , the Finder does what it does and that is do its best not to leave anything unfinished . If it ca n't finish a copy it deletes the partials . You could probably hack together a scriptlet that would let you drag and drop files onto it that would then rsync the file somewhere . You could even make it a folder action . But it would be limited in where the files end up .
You may use the free app <URL> which supports this feature .
To rearrange columns alphanumerically by their names , assuming the column names are in row 1 , do this : Select all cells of the table . ( Click and drag from top left cell to bottom right cell . ) Click the thin arrow button next to the ' Sort ' button and choose . In the Sort dialog box , click , and in the pop-up , choose to . Back in the main dialog box , un-check ' My list has headers ' . in Row : select ; in Sort On : select ; and in Order : select . Click OK to execute . ( based on Excel 2011 )
Yes , there is a way to add more than one number to iMessage . Just establish cellular service and SMS capability from any carrier you choose for each phone number you wish to have for iMessage . On each iPhone that has that service , sign in to iMessage . I 've had three numbers with one Apple ID in the past , so it was n't a problem other than the obvious one of having three phones .
Go to to add a shortcut , select or add Numbers as the Application , and put " Fill Down " ( exact , no quotes ) in the command spot and then assign your shortcut ( Ctrl + D )
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
I ended up changing the output to native . xls format by using the php wrapper from <URL> . The files now open fine in both native windows Excel and iWorks Numbers ' 09 .
No . This is not possible at this time without using a third party app . I use <URL> for this -- and other -- tasks .
end question
start question
Can I make my external HD sleep automatically ?
Mac OS X has no explicit option for users to power down external hard disk drives . This capability is managed by Mac OS X 's lower level <URL> . Regrettably , not all external hard disk drives offer energy saving features . However , Western Digital ( WD ) claim that <URL> . It is likely something is accessing your external hard disk drive . It only requires a tiny read or write to cause the disk to stay active . Maybe a log file being written to or back up software that never stops . Does the drive spin down when you unmount it in the Finder ? If so , consider scripting the mounting and unmounting of the drive as part of your back up routine .
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
If you 're running OS X Lion , you need you use ... <URL> The other post only refers to InsomniaX 1 - which does not work in Lion .
The MacBook Pro has the same number of pixels as the Cinema Display but a smaller area to show them on . That makes the pixels on the MacBook Pro smaller . Since windows and text are a certain number of pixels in size , screens with smaller pixels will make them appear smaller . The solution is to choose a lower resolution on the screen with smaller pixels ( the MBP in your case ) . Choosing a lower resolution means that each pixel of data will be drawn across multiple physical pixels , making everything bigger . I ca n't tell you exactly what resolution to use on your MBP to get things close to the same size , but it should n't be hard to find out with a little testing . Open System Preferences - > Displays and go to the Display tab of the window on your MBP . Check the Scaled radio button and pick the second resolution on the list that appears . If that is n't big enough , move on to the next ( lower ) resolution , etc. . Stop when you get to one that makes things similar in size across both displays . Note that , as a result of this , your MBP 's display may not look as nice . Things wo n't look as crisp and some resolutions will have to stretch things sideways .
This little ditty might help ... You 'll want to add in if you added that and any other non-standard directories in you wish to hide from the GUI . As to why - you might need to track that down using fs_usage , but typically it 's an installer that brute forces permissions or otherwise removed the metadata flags from those files .
You need to set your device language to English ( U.K. ) , not just the keyboard . To do this : Open Settings Tap " General " Tap " Language &amp; Region " Tap " iPhone Language " Select " English ( U.K. ) " Your iPhone should reboot and your dictionary should be set to British English . If it does n't , you may need to reset your dictionary by : Open Settings Tap " General " Scroll to the bottom and tap " Reset " Tap " Reset Keyboard Dictionary " You can verify that you are running your iPhone with British English as your preferred language as in the main Settings menu you will see an option labelled " Mobile " ( it is labelled " Cellular " in US English ) .
iTunes uses the same technologies as QuickTime for playback . According to <URL> circa 2005 , QuickTime is capable of playing 24-bit , 192kHz audio files . I think it 's safe to say that iTunes is fully capable of playing these files . However , you 're probably limited by the hardware in your Mac . If you open the " Audio MIDI Setup " app , you 'll probably find that your Mac is limited to audio output at 96kHz . So , if you want to listen to these files in full 192kHz , you 'll need to use a dedicated external USB DAC , and bypass your Mac 's internal audio hardware . Please correct me if I 'm wrong . Further reading : <URL>
This MacBook can simultaneously support the internal display as well as up to 3840x2160 at 30 Hz or up to 4096x2160 at 24Hz on one external display . In other words , connecting two external Thunderbolt Displays is not officially supported by Apple . The two displays are the internal display and an external display . If you 're still interested in connecting one external display , since this MacBook has a single USB-C port and no traditional video port , you 'll need an adapter to connect the display . Apple provides support for both HDMI and VGA via the following respective adapters : the <URL> for HDMI monitors , and also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . the <URL> for VGA monitors . Like the HDMI adapter , this also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . Once you have the appropriate adapter , it 's just a case of connecting the cable between it and your monitor . Of course , you may choose to purchase 3rd party adapters instead of the Apple branded ones .
Try turning your iPhone 's brightness slider to the middle or slightly lower , but leave auto-brightness on . The phone will usually auto-adjust its brightness after it gets locked ( display turned off ) and then turned on , maybe a minute or so later , in different lighting conditions .
If you save the Apple Script as an application , then go to System Preferences - > Users - > Login Items , you can add the application there , and it will run on login .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
According to <URL> , this should work . <URL> confirms it . These are the troubleshooting steps I would try : Run all software updates on both the iMac and MacBook Air . A lot of times there are firmware updates that address issues like this . Open System Preferences > Displays and click Detect Displays . Reset the <URL> on both the iMac and the MacBook Air by restarting the computer and holding & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + P+R on boot but until you hear the POST chime twice . Then you can let go and boot normally . Be sure to do this on both machines . Try going through these steps and let me know if you 're able to resolve the issue .
Thanks for your help Graham , but I decided to take a look at my logic board and found some places that had been corroded . I removed my logic board and gave it a good clean with isopropyl alcohol and a toothbrush and for now my mac has stopped going to sleep on its own , also fans are back to normal .
It seems the answer is ' not huge , but noticeable ' , maybe 15-20 % . I 'm not sure what the price tag difference is off hand , but if you 're working on graphics apps , games , video - get what you can afford , with the iMac 's not being upgradeable in that sense , what can it hurt to do so ? With an all in one I 'm a big believe in buying what you can afford to get . That said - if you 're going to replace the machine next year ? Do n't worry so much .
Unless you do some serious data crunching with your Mac , you should n't need to worry about SSD wear . It does happen , but any relatively recent SSD does a lot to combat it , both by minimizing write amplification , and by setting aside spare area to do wear levelling and compensate for bad flash . If you 're really worried about it , you can still sleep , but not use hibernate mode , meaning that nothing gets written to disk . Just open Terminal and run . You can then delete the sleep file to free up some space : .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
<URL> is an award winning general purpose utility for Mac OS X This app does exactly what you are after ( plus much much more ) , but it will set you back $ 15 . Alternatively , the command appears to do this as well , but without the fancy GUI . For example will prevent all disks from spinning down within 60 minutes of activity when plugged in . You can change the part to specify a different power condition : The - a , - b , - c , - u flags determine whether the settings apply to battery ( - b ) , charger ( wall power ) ( - c ) , UPS ( - u ) or all ( - a )
Third party developers can provide import functionality to health app via the normal Health Kit API on iOS . Some apps scrape or use web API such as <URL> exist to get FitBit data from the cloud to the local health app on iOS . Some such as <URL> are more general . ( proper disclosure : I work on this app ) We have an app on the store that is designed specifically for importing arbitrary CSV data into HealthKit / Health.App . Here are a few screenshots from the development version to show how the app works : CSV 's can be sent via email and then opened in the app : You can then configure each of the columns within your CSV to a supported data type from HealthKit / Health.App : After that , just tap the import button and it 'll bring the data in :
Try to change it by going to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > your account , and click on Change Password ...
Not using the built-in hardware . Only MacBooks with a discrete graphics card can drive a second external display ( and even then , only one of the new Thunderbolt displays ) . The MacBook Air does n't have a discrete graphics card , only the Intel HD 3000 one that comes with the CPU . The same applies to the MacBook Pro 13 inch and the 15 inch ones that do n't have one of the AMD Radeon graphics cards . You can drive an external display using a USB connected graphics card . For example I have one of the <URL> adapters , which works very well for everything except 3D graphics and full screen video ) . I use <URL> for my second external display on my MacBook Pro 13 .
end question
start question
How can I avoid different windows of the same app get folded in at the dock ?
Depending on how your System prefs are set , F3 will do a variety of window-juggling tasks ... If Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard is set to default , with " Use all F1 , F2 ... " unchecked then they will work as stated , if it 's checked you will need to add the Fn key to each of these commands . F3 will toggle Mission Control - all windows of all apps &amp; Desktops spread out so you can see them . Cmd ⌘ F3 will toggle desktop view only . Ctrl ⌃ F3 will show all windows of only the frontmost app * [ this is likely to be the closest to what you need . ] Shift ⇧ F3 will do the same as just F3 ... only really really slowly [ for presentations etc ] Opt ⌥ F3 will bring up Mission Control prefs , where you can tweak other behaviour . You can also go directly to a given tab by right-clicking the app icon in the Dock , though it only shows the frontmost tab 's title for each window .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
Apps are paused when backgrounded and resume when opened . If an app does not correctly resume to the state it was left in , this is something only the developer can fix . It 's not possible to run an app in the background as if it was in the foreground . Apps can only run a limited set of tasks in the background for a short period of time per Apple guidelines , or use structured backgrounding such as Background App Refresh . Also see <URL> .
In the Finder 's preferences , there is an option at the bottom of the General pane for " Spring-loaded folders and windows " that seems to control this . You can adjust the delay using the slider there , and also ( as it notes ) press the spacebar when dragging an item to invoke Exposé immediately . It 's not a hidden preference ( in the sense that you need to get at it ) so much as a preference in a somewhat unexpected place . ;)
Yes - the good splitters mix the pins correctly to provide mono microphone and stereo output in the same jack . You can of course get breakout boxes like the Griffin iMic and have the benefit of a cleaner D/A circuit at the expense of carrying another device that 's plugged into USB . Just like everything - some of the expensive products are over priced and some of the cheap ones are worthless . I 'd go with a name brand - especially if their products are carried on the Apple Online or stocked in the retail stores . Lion does add a control where you can select the speaker icon in the menu and switch from input and output . As to the rationale - unless an engineer from Apple steps up , we 'll have to speculate . Here are the reasons to have fewer ports . ( They 're not al good , but they are reasons ) Simplicity - the iPhone / iPad / iPod touch all have one port . Many people do n't need or want the confusion of knowing which port they plugged in to their mac . Just as you really appreciate having two , many appreciate having only one stereo jack . Internal simplicity - one less switch , one less moving part , several solder points . Internal spacing is far more important than external space . If you look at <URL> - you will see there actually is n't room on the logic board for another connector . The design would have to sacrifice an USB port or the SD card slot to make room for a second package without reducing the space for the battery . These macs are packed incredibly tightly and despite the clean appearance of excess external space , inside they are packed like proverbial sardines in a can . This lack of space likely cuts features from the smaller macs like a redundant mini headphone port .
That would be difficult for the conditions described . Looking for most portable solution , I think this <URL> might do the job . <URL>
If you were running Windows 7 before the reinstall , look for the following folders : \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows Vista before the reinstall , you should look for : \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows XP before reinstalling , look for : \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications These are the default locations for your apps . If you had changed the location of your iTunes folder in your iTunes preferences , you could search your backup copy for a folder called " Mobile Applications " or for the app 's name .
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
No , you want be able to stream music to two airport express units simultaneously from an iOS device such as an iPad or iPhone . However , you can stream simultaneously from iTunes running on a Mac or PC . For example , you ca n't have speakers playing in the kitchen and speakers playing in the dining room at the same time unless they are connected to the same airport express . If you have them connected to two airport expresses , you can choose kitchen or dining room but not both . You can play to both if you stream from a Mac or PC using itunes . However , there are apps that will let you control the Mac or PC from your iOS device but you ca n't do it natively .
As a Mac developer I 've been working on a solution to this problem , so far I 've been able to detect autocorrect in a within the app itself and play a sound to alert the user . At the moment I am working on making it able to detect autocorrect in any in any app but that 's a bit harder and may take longer so I thought I would just brief you on what I 've done so far . I 'll edit this answer with the final app when it can detect autocorrection in any app . Here 's what I 've got done so far : [ Most up to date download link further down ] I 'm currently in the process of testing a version of the app which is generalised and works on every single text view no matter which app is active . It uses a slightly different method to how I did it when it was just a within the app itself as when you deal with these things with other apps ( via the Accesability API ) you do n't have direct access to the objects themselves . Anyway enough with the ' jibber-jabber ' , here are some screen shots of the preferences : General - At the moment it just lets you choose the sound to play when autocomplete is detected . Blacklist - Allows you to blacklist certain apps so that autocorrect detection is turned off and no sound is played . The reason I am testing it is because the method I use is not completely sound , it simply detects any change in text before the cursor . This means it will detect autocomplete but in general will detect any change in text that is NOT directly done by the user ( e.g a button which clears all text ) other than this it works pretty well . I 'll update this answer with a download link once I 've finished testing . I 've finished testing , so ... here 's the download link : <URL> It runs in the background , so has no dock icon . To access the preferences double click on the app in Finder . Again , this does n't work perfectly and has a couple of bugs but it should work 99 % of the time !
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
The monitor used dual-link DVI . I was able to get it working using this adapter , and it now displays up to 2560 x 1600 : <URL>
I think you are looking for this feature : ( System Preferences = > Dock ) I just tried it on my own system and it when you minimize , it minimizes on the icon . You can click the icon to make the minimized window appear again . You did n't mention what version of OS X you are on ; I 'm on Mountain Lion ( OS X 10.8.4 ) .
Yes . In almost all cases , OS X software is hardware-agnostic ( as long as the hardware comes from Apple ) .
Hold & #x 2318 ; and drag it out of the menu . If date and weekday are shown , they will also be removed . Alternatively , you can disable and customize the clock in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Date &amp; Time & #x 2192 ; Clock .
Cell network search : when in presence of two or more network antennae , probably it register which one is better where ( so it has to know where ) , in order to automatically connect to it the next time you '' ll be in the same place . Diagnostics &amp; Usage : possibly related to the one above , about battery life draining with different antennae Traffic : I guess this one is to collect data for a yet to be announced product ( see the Apple <URL> regarding this .
The only way to achieve this with applications that do not have native multi-account support would be to patch the CFBundleIdentifier which is also used by the application to find passwords on keychains . You can change that by editing the Info.plist file in the application bundle . This will break the digital signature of the application , so always work on a copy . With Reeder being an application from the Mac AppStore this will break the digital signature of the application rendering it non-launchable . So you will need to remove all signs of as well . Then this might work unless the application does additional bundle checking that will prevent this . ( Which is something I do n't know in the case of Reeder . ) When that actually works , you will need to launch the application with a secondary-click ( right click , two-finger click or ctrl-click ) then selecting " Open " from the contextual menu and confirming the subsequent warning from Gatekeeper . ( I definitely can not recommend to turn off Gatekeeper completely . ) Of course you will need to do all these steps for each and every copy after each update of Reeder again . ( With the risk that Reeder may add additional checks at any time rendering this process not working anymore . ) Other solutions may be to use different RSS clients for your multiple accounts and requesting multi-account support from the developers .
Yes - when you set the Time Machine to back up to the Time Capsule - you will include the internal drive by default . I would let a couple of backups complete , and then go to the settings for time machine under options and make sure the external drive is not excluded . Kick off a a backup with the external drive connected to make sure it works . If the drive is n't connected when a back up event arrives , the internal will get backed up - but the software will remember and resume backing up the external any time it is connected and a back up happens . You do n't need to always have the external drive connected for this to work , you just lose some chances to back it up when it 's not connected .
end question
start question
Are number of desktops affecting memory ?
Look at it in another way : You do n't have 8 desktops but you just have 1 desktop . The applications are bundled into groups and only certain groups of applications are shown on your desktop screen . When another application becomes active from another group , then the selected group will become active on your desktop . It feels like your have 8 desktops but in fact you only have 1 . So to answer your question : It will need more memory than a static desktop but I doubt it 's even Noticeable .
According to Apple Support : Double Data Rate Small Outline Dual Inline Memory Module ( DDR3 ) format 67.6 mm x 30mm ( 1.18 inch ) 2 GB or 4 GB 204-pin PC3-10600 DDR3 1333 MHz type RAM Source : <URL>
OS X , like most modern operating systems , uses a virtual memory system for managing memory . Among other purposes , this allows the operating system to treat the computer as having an unlimited pool of memory . To achieve this , the OS will page unused parts of RAM out to a disk store known as the swapfile . Of course , RAM is not unlimited , so OS X groups RAM into four categories : wired , active , inactive , and free . Wired memory is required by the operating system , and can never be paged out of memory . Active memory is memory used by currently-running programs . Inactive memory was used recently by programs which have now been terminated ( or have n't been unused in a long time ) . Free memory is , as the name suggests , RAM that is not being used . When you launch a program , it gets loaded into active memory . When you quit a program , however , it does n't get removed from RAM ; rather , it gets bumped into inactive memory . This is why it is often faster to re-launch a program -- it is still in RAM ( try this with a big program like Firefox ) . Once all your memory is used ( free memory is 0 ) , the OS will write out inactive memory to the swapfile to make more room in active memory . If a program gets paged out to the swapfile , and you re-launch it , it 'll get pulled from the swapfile into active memory . So in short , you actually should n't care if your free memory is low . In fact , you want it to be low -- free memory is wasted memory ( as the OS is n't using it for anything ) . When examining how much memory your computer is using , you actually want to pay attention mostly to Swap used , which tells you the size of the virtual memory swapfile , and Page ins , which tells you how often the OS has to pull memory from the swapfile into active memory .
This is due to the nature of garbage collection technology used in Java . Freeing memory in such systems is delayed until some threshold reached , or out of memory happens , or some time passes . It is probably not using all those 700MB all the time ( may as well be just 50 MB ) , but Activity Monitor has no way to look inside Java virtual machine and tell how much is actually used . Normally , if there are no bugs or leaks ( yes GC systems may leak too ) , Java should give up unused memory whenever your system runs out of it , so there is no need to worry right now . Said that , if you do n't need the program , it wo n't hurt uninstalling whatever is starting it up .
Regrettably I do n't believe this is possible . As you 've probably noticed , there are no user-accessible options for this in System Preferences ' Keyboard Shortcuts . As far as I can determine , there are n't any scriptable interfaces either ( plists , Applescript ) . Options for building your own program seem to be pretty limited as well , according to <URL> I found . The most you seem to be able to do programmatically is <URL> . The only way to possibly do this without some serious OS X hacking is to use something like <URL> to do some GUI scripting to do the dragging for you . However GUI scripting is always a bit messy , and you 'd need to account for the changing positions of the desktops , depending on how many are open , etc. . I suspect that 's not exactly what you were looking for , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get , unless someone finds something I did n't . Sorry .
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
To answer your question , yes , applications and processes continue to start up and if you have not manually closed them or restarted the computer , you will be " losing " RAM . You can turn the inactive memory into free memory with this command in Terminal : You can also run Activity Monitor to diagnose what apps are running and sort the list by most memory .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
You can think of inactive memory like free memory that 's been reserved for a recently closed application , but will be used when ' true ' free memory has been exhausted . If you have 1 GB of memory ( for the sake of making this discussion easier ) on a freshly booted system , imagine the OS uses 300 MB and you open an app that uses 200 MB . You now have a total of 500 MB used , and 500 free . If you close that app that was using 200 MB , the memory is marked inactive and you 'll now have 300 used ( OS ) , 200 inactive , and 500 free . If you open an app that requires 600 MB , it 'll use the free memory then pull from the inactive pool . You can free inactive memory by opening Terminal.app and typing ( without the $ ) : You can , also configure MySQL to use more memory but if you 're not having performance problems I 'd leave everything alone : <URL> <URL> For more information on inactive memory in OS X : <URL> ( search for " inactive memory " ) <URL> <URL> ( The last link might require an Apple developer account )
I do n't think there is an option for this . So you will have to manually number all slides in order to keep the slide/page number the same for several of them .
Yes , Crucial Ballistix Sport memory modules with CL = 10 timing do work . The results of an Xbench 1.3 " Memory Test " : Hynix CL = 11 : 618.25 Crucial CL = 10 : 699.12 The not by Crucial recommended memory modules perform 13 % faster then Apple 's factory default modules in this Mac . Benchmarking performed on a 15 " MacBook Pro ( Mid 2012 , MD103xx/A , MacBookPro9 ,1 ) with 2 modules of identical memory : Apple default Hynix HMT325S6CFR8C-PB ( PC3-12800S ( DDR3-1600 ) Crucial Ballistix Sport BLS2C8G3N18AES4CEU ( PC3-14900 ( DDR3-1866 ) ) Detailed results : Hynix Memory Test : 618.25 System : 679.54 Allocate : 2388.91 ( 8.77 Malloc/sec ) Fill : 414.93 ( 20174.73 MB/sec ) Copy : 630.47 ( 13022.12 MB/sec ) Stream : 567.11 Copy : 569.11 ( 11768.32 MB/sec ) Scale : 571.98 ( 11817.02 MB/sec ) Add : 568.58 ( 12112.06 MB/sec ) Triad : 558.29 ( 11943.20 MB/sec ) Crucial Memory Test : 699.12 System : 699.53 Allocate : 2327.00 ( 8.55 Malloc/sec ) Fill : 435.50 ( 21174.97 MB/sec ) Copy : 639.94 ( 13217.72 MB/sec ) Stream : 698.71 Copy : 689.46 ( 14240.61 MB/sec ) Scale : 695.49 ( 14368.67 MB/sec ) Add : 716.26 ( 15257.79 MB/sec ) Triad : 694.24 ( 14851.47 MB/sec )
Most of the difference was marked probably memory marked as inactive . Any app can still use this memory , so it 's not marked as used by some process . For more info about inactive memory , see <URL> . Wired memory usually makes up a much smaller portion . This is memory used by the OS ; it is n't available to your apps . For more info , see the Apple article <URL> .
Current Period refers to the period of time since the last reset . This is nothing to do with the cellular plan . You can see the beginning date of the current period by scrolling to the bottom and looking at the date under the reset option . If you have never reset the counter , it has been counting up like the odometer of a car since you started the OS at a clean restore .
How to get serial numbers for displays : Go to . Open this with TextWrangler or a similar utility . Look for a key with an integer value that is n't 0 . With any luck , this should be the s/n of your display . If you have n't used this display for a while , the records of it may be gone . Also , it appears that this is n't guaranteed . Double-check if possible . How to get the serial numbers for iPods : Open . Look under the Devices dictionary . Any iPod you 've connected will have all its info there , including the s/n ( under ) . Good luck .
I found <URL> for wired memory : Wired memory is used by the OS and is pretty much untouchable . Another application ca n't " borrow " wired memory If you want to know more about how applications and frameworks are using memory on your system , try . You must run it as root ; is one way to accomplish that . When you run it , it will perform analysis for several seconds before showing output . Here is a short example of the output : See the allmemory man page ( with the command ) for more details ; here 's an explanation of some of the columns : PrivateRes : the number of pages resident in physical memory , not shared with other processes Copied/Dirty : the number of resident pages that were copied or are dirty ( non-exclusive ) Swapped : the number of pages that were in memory but have been swapped to disk . Shared : the number of shared pages
Your allocated video memory depends on what you are going to be doing with your VM . For instance , I use 8MB for my headless FreeBSD machines and 256MB for my Windows 10 VMs . Windows Servers 2008 or 2012 get anywhere from 16 to 128MB of RAM depending on what they are used for . However , if you set it to 256MB ( max for one monitor ) you should have ample memory to run El Capitan . I do recommend maxing out the memory in your iMac , however ( 32GB RAM ) . That has made all the difference for me .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
You 've turned it off in Notification Center . Open Settings , then scroll to Notification Center and tap it . Scroll down to the " Include " section ; " Messages " should be there . If not you 've turned off notifications for it altogether ; scroll on down to " Do Not Include " and you should see it there . In either case , tap it . Tap the " Badge App Icon " switch so it 's on . Your messages count should be back .
The Mac mini ( mid 2010 ) is extremely finicky accepting RAM with a faster clock-speed ( some work , some do n't ) . You must use 1066 MHz or buy a pair that is known to be free of issue . For some reason that particular model was <URL> ( many posts on the internet regarding its inability to run under these conditions ) . For what it 's worth , the new Mac mini ( mid 2011 ) do not suffer from the same problem , accepting higher clocked RAM without complaint .
end question
start question
If I buy an app from the app store , do I have to stay logged into the app store ?
Yes , although there are <URL> that cover the same ground already on SE . You can DL app store apps ( including Lion ) on your girlfriend 's computer . Then she can log into her own apple account and buy other apps . The only thing you need to be aware of is that for updates , you can only update the apps you bought with that particular account . So if you want to update Lion ( not likely as it will come through software update ) or other apps , you will have to re-log into your account . I believe most apps have a 5 computer limit .
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
Yes . Just go to the " Purchases " tab and click " Install " by the app you wish to reinstall : Well-behaved apps should retain settings , etc upon reinstall , as merely deleting the app from / Applications is not sufficient to remove that information from your system . This may not be the case if an <URL> is used .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
You have nearly 6 months ( 180 days ) time to upload the binary . As per Apple developer <URL> , 150 Day Warning . You will receive an email when you have had an app created for 150 days but have not yet delivered a binary , reminding you that you have 30 more days to deliver your binary or your app will be deleted from iTunes Connect . You will be given an exact date of your deadline in this email . 173 Day Warning . You will receive an email when you have had an app created for 173 days but have not yet delivered a binary , reminding you that you have 7 more days to deliver your binary or your app will be deleted from iTunes Connect . You will be given an exact date of your deadline in this email . 180 Day Deletion Confirmation . You will receive an email confirming that your app has been deleted from iTunes Connect , if you have not delivered a binary before your 180-day deadline .
You could state that your game is under development for iOS , and if you are waiting for approval you can state it is submitted to the App Store or that it is Waiting approval for the App Store . In Apples documentation it is known as ' <URL> '
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
You ca n't upload ' plugins / extentions ' to the Mac App Store . Only full ' apps ' will be approved for the mac app store . To create a mac app , you need a developer license to be able to publish your app through the Mac App Store .
Try searching your email for the string : Here 's an example email receipt I received from the iTunes App Store which included an in-app purchase ( in this case , an X-Men comic from the comiXology app ) :
As you can read on the <URL> , there is indeed a difference : Should I buy from you directly , or from the Mac App Store ? It 's largely a matter of personal preference . Please refer to the pricing FAQ above to see which way gets you the best price . At the moment , there is only one difference between the two versions : the Mac App Store version will support iCloud syncing of Sites and Clips , and the direct version will not . This is a restriction imposed by Apple . Apple often changes the conditions for Mac App Store eligibility , and it 's possible we may have to modify or remove features from the Mac App Store version in the future . It 's our intent to keep them as close to identical as Apple will let us . So there you have your answer . So , if you like to sync with iCloud , you should buy from the Mac App Store . If you like to have a 50 % discount , buy from Panic directly ! I would go for the 50 % discount . :)
Yes , you do . They are two entirely separate apps for two radically different devices .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
When new updates are available on the Mac App Store , it does n't notify you at first . It waits " for a while " and then downloads them in the background . This includes ALL updates . System updates , app updates , all of them . When the download is complete and ready to be installed , that 's when it notifies you .
<URL> lets you purchase bundles of 20 + licenses for Apple software , including Lion . The licenses can be bought via the <URL> and redeemed in the Mac App Store . If you need to purchase less than 20 commercial licenses , it seems you can not do so using a single Apple ID . Have fun creating an Apple ID for each license you want to buy . .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
No . You can not uninstall apps from within the App Store . How can I delete an application ? You can delete them like in iOS : Open Launchpad . Click and hold the app you want to delete ( or hold & #x 2325 ;) Delete by clicking on the X. Note : The X appears only for apps which have been installed using the Mac App Store . Locate the Applications folder where the app is located : or Drag the application to the Trash . Note : This will only remove the application - this will not remove some other files which may be related to the app ( e.g. preferences ) . If you want to remove such files as well , you can use tools like <URL> which @james . garriss has mentioned . Besides this , applications which have not been installed via the Mac App Store sometimes provide their own uninstaller in the installer image . I usually keep them in a folder which I created .
Here 's my copy , hope it helps . <URL> PS : I 'm going to remove it next week , so be quick !
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
I do n't have a source , but the thing is that the iPad/iPhone AppStore is different than the Mac Apple Store . The iPhone game costs 0.99 , whereas the iPad version ( optimized for the larger screen ) is more expensive , yet these two apps are in the same Store . Since there 's no way ( thanks the Apple ) to provide free upgrades to the Mac Apple Store for existing customers , Rovio charges you for the game again if you want it in your Mac , no matter how easy it was to port for them . It was probably not a super hard task , but in terms of administrative work , they have no choice unless they 'd wanted to give it away for free , which clearly they are n't . So the answer is yes , you have to buy it again from the Mac Apple Store .
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
end question
start question
How can I recover the key of an encrypted hard-drive ?
What would be the purpose of disk encryption if the key can get recovered from the encrypted disk itself ? Unless you find it in the Keychain ( and I 'm not even sure it 's there in the first place ) or somewhere else where you may have written it down , you are out of luck .
The issue is probably that the space is being taken up by swap files and possibly a hibernate sleep image . To see this do an These files are deleted on a reboot and start increasing as you use more memory and Xcode takes a lot of memory . You need to reduce the space used by the rest of the system . apps and data . Basically 120GB is too small unless you only use it for development and not any music or other media files . You can save a bit of disc space by removing unused applications and clearing out other languages ( see other questions here ) but getting a bigger or external hard disk is probably a better use of your time . To see where the space goes see the applications in this <URL> or from the command line .
There is a simple way to find out who is the owner of the computer as reported to Find my Mac . In terminal use If it is your name there then you are fine .
Ctrl-T is standard hotkey for file selection -- <URL> . As for switch/add/substract , just type shift-8 for * , shift - = for + and - for minus . All this works in MC out of the box .
Not an exact answer to your question , but when using Terminal.app there is an option to even further reduce hard disk sleep time from 10 minutes to 1 minute , with this command :
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
I used the following a lot . ⌘ CMD + ꜛ : Home ⌘ CMD + ↓ : End ⌘ CMD + ← : Beginning of Line ⌘ CMD + → : End of Line These I learned the other day from <URL> - very handy for coding and writing , these are emacs bindings which work on Macs . CTRL+A : beginning of line . CTRL+E : end of line . CTRL+U : delete from cursor to beginning of line . CTRL+K : delete from cursor to end of line . CTRL+W : erase word to the left . CTRL+T : transpose characters around cursor .
Your photos are probably gone from your phone , but there are a couple other places to check . Were you backing up to iCloud ? If so , you may be able to restore a backup from iCloud to your phone and with it your camera roll . Apple KB article <URL> . Were you syncing your photostream to iCloud ? If so , fire up iPhoto or the windows iCloud tool and download the photos . Apple KB article <URL> .
Menu > About this Mac Then the Storage tab For cleanup , <URL> exists for Mac ; there 's also <URL> &amp; a whole raft of others . I would n't particularly recommend any of them , as they 've all been known to throw out the wrong bit , just like on Windows .
Yes , you can . Good thing you do n't care about your warranty though . <URL>
Mail is caching your Gmail contents and this is normal for IMAP . See this <URL> and answers for possible solutions and implications regarding SpotLight search through emails : Disable all message caching Disable attachment caching
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
It depends on the <URL> used by your external hard drive . Most likely , the file system is <URL> which allows both Mac and PC to read from and write to it , so you would be fine to just plug it into your Mac . It could however be <URL> which is Microsoft file system that PCs can read and write to but Macs can only read . In this case , you 'll still be able to read all of the files on the drive and copy them to your Mac , you just wi n't be able to add any more files or alter the files while they 're still on the drive . To tell what file system the drive is , just right-click it in Windows and select Properties , the file system should be shown in the General tab . If the drive is NTFS you have a few options : You could <URL> to FAT32 or exFAT . You could install <URL> on your Mac which allows you to write to NTFS drives . You could share wirelessly from your Windows machine . You 'll have to Google this yourself as it 's different for each version of Windows and you have n't said which version you 're using , but it 's fairly easy .
You can check it via Finder . Just select the Hard Drive and press . Or Click on the Apple icon on the menu bar Select , then click on . Select Storage
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
If you 're talking about an aluminum iMac , getting to the HDD involves removing the built in display monitor to be able to get behind it . YouTube seems to have several video walk-throughs that show the process ( including <URL> ) . Additionally , a quick search turned up <URL> . The process seems too complex to provide here . If you 're comfortable with this level of complexity in hardware repair , then the video or text walk throughs should help you . I suspect , all things considered , if you 're not confident enough to perform the upgrade yourself just by looking at videos of others who have done it , then this probably falls into the class of " take your iMac to your local Mac service centre and get them to do it " : yes , it will cost you money , but they can also guarantee their workmanship ...
It 's probably no different hardware-wise , just already formatted for the Mac . There 's a whole pile of people who still think Macs need special everything , so the companies take advantage of that to fleece them out of an extra # 20 . In general , you do n't need special Mac-only hardware stuff anymore . Hard drives , RAM , peripherals , etc. are all fairly generally universally compatible ; even the stuff that 's generally seen as " Mac " ( i.e. , FireWire and now Thunderbolt ) is Windows - and Linux-compatible and will generally work fine . EDIT : I guess I can think of one good reason to buy a pre-formatted " Mac " drive : if the user is not someone who is comfortable formatting disks . On the other hand , Disk Utility is sufficiently straightforward I 've walked my parents through formatting drives a couple of times over the phone , so I would n't waste the money .
You probably need to step a level further down the tree of software and hardware , to the level of <URL> - which acts as a filter between the physical keyboard and the keyboard events reported to MacOS . The software keyboard map is an optional thing - software can intercept keyboard events at a level that bypasses it , if they wish , and it sounds like some of what the browser does with key binding is touching on that . A lower level remapping may bypass that problem .
end question
start question
How do I enable Java to do JNLP in Safari ?
Quick and easy solution is to utilize an alternate browser . I had a similar issue with a Keyboard Video Mouse switch that required Java in order to initiate a <URL> ( Java Web Start ) session . After installing various versions of Java ( 1.6 , 1.7 , etc. ) ( O.S. is Mountain Lion ) and trying to start a JNLP session in Safari ( Version 6.0.5 , [ 8536.30.1 ] ) would see the efforts subsequently fail . I installed Google Chrome ( Version 28.0.1500.71 ) and tried to initiate a JNLP session and it worked fine . Firefox may or may not work equally as well but I did not test beyond Google Chrome .
I would n't go playing with kexts , they do n't like being dragged around . You 'll end up with a kernel panic &amp; have to pick it apart in single user mode - let 's leave that kind of thing to the hackintosh kiddies . LCC comes with an uninstaller , in Applications/Utilities which would be a far better bet .
Since <URL> appears to no longer work ... Bookmark this ( or any ) page - then edit the bookmark - call it what you like , but change the url to ... Now you can check your user agent any time you feel like conveniently from your bookmarks - thanks Apple ! Or if it 's just a quick one-off check you want and you 're connected to the ' net , do what <URL> .
Using the Botany sample , the text boxes seem to work as expected with the caveat that you have to intentionally click on one of the four corner handles of the text box to make the blue linking triangles appear . I took a <URL> showing the controls reacting to mouse events . From there , linking works as expected from the perspective of Pages .
You can use Boolean operators : Use Boolean searches : Use Boolean operators such as AND , OR , and NOT . For example , to search for messages that contain " yosemite " and " yellowstone " but not " teton , " type " yosemite AND yellowstone NOT teton " or " yosemite AND yellowstone - teton . " You must type Boolean operators in uppercase . Souce : <URL>
From <URL> : Apple supplies their own version of Java . Use the Software Update feature ( available on the Apple menu ) to check that you have the most up-to-date version of Java for your Mac . I seriously recommend not to use any other way , but OS X Software Update .
You can disable the XProtect updates in , and there uncheck the box " Automatically update safe downloads list . " Now you can change the version info in
If you 're located outside the US , iTunes Match is unavailable for the time being , due to content licensing deals . When iTunes Match was first announced I believe Apple stated they would be working on bringing it to more countries , but these negotiations always take some time . Hard to give a definite timeframe unless Apple announces something .
The short answer on how to enable sshd from the terminal is doing this : The long answer on how to execute daemons or scripts on startup is a bit longer . There are two ways ( that I know of ) to do this : The first one is through Startup Items , which are executed at the final phase of bootup , these are deprecated and should n't be used unless you need compatibility with MacOSX v10 .3 or earlier . You can take a look at how to do it this way in <URL> . The second one is launchd , a replacement for init and rc ( among others ) . This is the recommended way and it 's a bit trickier than just putting a script on a folder like in Linux . There are several ways to launch daemons , the preferred way it to launch them on demand ( so they will be ready to launch but you wo n't see them in a ps for example , unless you are using them ) . The explanation is a bit lengthly and the list of options is long , you can take a look at the documentation <URL> . You can take a look in / Library/LaunchAgents for examples , if you have Chrome installed , there is a file in there for the Google Software Updater called com.google.keystone.agent.plist , that runs at load time , you can start there .
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
Open Safari and go to Preferences , then click on the Advanced tab . There 's a checkbox at the bottom titled " Show Develop menu in menu bar " . Check that then close the Preferences window . You 'll notice that in your menu bar between Bookmarks and Window you have a menu called Develop . Near the bottom of that menu list is Disable Images -- click it . Now your browsing experience is image free !
The Hackint0sh Community has generously created some kext management tools for everyone to use , even those that own and operate a bone fide , genuine Macintosh . <URL> - ( check out the video demo ! ) <URL> <URL> You can use these tools to experiment and quickly discover exactly what will work for you . SRTools , at least , even has history and undo functions to help you avoid leaving your machine in an unbootable state , which is possible when messing around with OS X extensions . You see ... userland is userland , and kernel space is kernel space , and never the twain shall meet , except on the <URL> . The idea here , and what these tools are used for , is to experiment . In the Finder , under the Go menu , select " Go to Folder ... " or type ⇪ shift - ⌘ command-g and type / System/Library/Extensions in the address field that appears , and in the window that opens , look for extensions with " thunderbolt " in the filename . Use one of the above linked utilities to test your set up with unloading and loading the various kexts , to see which one , if there is indeed one , that will reveal itself as the one you need . Then you can streamline the process later ( such as with a <URL> that has been <URL> to unload/reload a kext ) . A great resource for discovering how to customize your particular set up is to browse through the <URL> , and , of course , <URL> is quite often essential for discovery , and at times , gleaming understanding .
The ⇥ Tab key functions as the sustain pedal in the on-screen keyboard , if you switch to the Musical Typing mode : If you must use the Keyboard mode , you can insert pedaling after the fact in the Score editor :
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
I am fairly certain there is no way to disable this feature , short of jailbreaking your device . Even then , I am not aware of any tools to do so . Sorry this is n't the news you were hoping for !
It 's a problem with a specific web page -- <URL> . It specifies the content type <URL> in the <URL> , which is usually used for files meant to be downloaded -- and that 's what your web browser does . HTML web pages usually use or similar HTTP headers , never . If you were browsing web sites with similar topics that might link to this web page , and you clicked a link , or the web page was included in another web page using a frame/iframe , that 's the cause for the downloads .
You can download <URL> , install , and reboot , and it should be listed in . Make sure that it 's enabled ( there should be a button saying ) : Note : You probably want to check because Java always pops up and asks you if you want it to run . Once you finish this , you can <URL> .
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
I 'm using <URL> . Translate only what i want ( selected text or whole page ) , inject translated text into the page , no button ( right click menu ) .
So far the only way I 've found to do this is to manually choose the alert style for the app in Notification Center . The default is banner , so enabling push notifications requires setting the alert style to banner , turn on badging , sounds and enable in notification center , and similarly disabling all these ( banner style to none ) to disable . I really wish there were a single on/off setting for this but there does n't appear to be . Update : I got my wish . As of iOS 8 I believe there is now a single on/off switch to enable notifications for an app . This resides in the Settings - > Notifications area under the specific app .
end question
start question
Change the current iTunes song 's rating after it finishes playing ?
This would select the next track and set the rating of the previous track to two stars :
Since my speaker system is hooked up to my desktop computer I use <URL> to airplay music and podcasts from my iphone to my desktop .
I believe there would be a time frame to which the data would be able to be retained given some simple knowledge of server configurations . You could think of the iCloud server as a series of hard drives all connected together and connected to the Internet . Some of the hard drive are used for saving your information and your iCloud account allows you to choose how big you want your iCloud storage capacity to be . Other hard drives are used to backup those hard drives . These would be used in the case a large number of the hard drives were not working properly . In this case your information is still saved , which is a very smart and good business practice . Some other hard drives are used when only one of the hard drives with customer information is failing , then this drive will pickup where it left off so there are no service issues . Also , very smart practice . So as far as that information which has been deleted , it is probably still able to be retained for a period of time , after which it would be overwritten on the drives which backup the drives with the original data . Your privacy would still be respected due to the high encryption level of iCloud . Lastly , retaining the information through an interface such as the Settings > iCloud pane in iOS would not be available . However , the information may still be able to be retained in the case it were done on accident .
This would select the next track and set the rating of the previous track to two stars :
One option would be to save this script to in AppleScript Editor and give it a shortcut with <URL> . Without the try block there would be an error dialog if for example the selection was empty .
This uses a 3rd-party tool , sorry , but it works very well . It 's called <URL> and it displays the current track via the Notification Center ( both a pop-up and a persistent message in the NC itself ) . I use it on iTunes 10.7 and OSX 10.8.2 ( ML ) . I found another App that does the same sort of thing but is Open Source and purports to use fewer resources . It 's called <URL> . It also supports Growl , in addition to Notification Center .
I found the solution by renaming the ( Artist ) info . of that one song that iTunes did n't group with the rest of the songs/album to something else ( just added a random letter at the end ) and then renaming it back to the original name . Weirdly , iTunes then recognized the 2 albums as one and grouped the songs together . Thanks everyone for the help .
It can happen any time after the first machine exits the initial 90 day phone warranty . As soon as Apple has a used machine returned to them , it will be reformatted , cleaned up , and repackaged . Once Apple has enough to sell again , they go on sale as refurbished models .
No - the design clearly is intended to honor whatever set of metadata you have currently entered into your library . As you have discovered , the matching process can find songs based on other criteria and re-downloading the " canonical " AAC 256 kbps stereo will not currently fill in any metadata holes or correct parts of the metadata that do not match what Apple has in the store ( or it 's Match database for songs that are not for sale like the AC/DC catalog ) I can see two reasons for this : Intentional - preserve user customization where the data may be better on the individual customer iTunes database . Not automating the process of cleaning up songs that may have been passed or downloaded rather than ripped when connected to a metadata lookup server or otherwise encoded by the official artist when it was sold or released . I specifically have hundreds of Hawaiian songs where I 've entered the metadata with the help of a native speaker to have the correct punctuation ( and that does n't match Apple 's punctuation ) . There certainly is a great need for a tool to help people manage this , but iTunes Match is n't that tool today .
You would need to change sounds in : There are : and ( self explanatory ) . I recomend to make backup of those files before swap .
Playing games on your iPhone uses a lot more processing power than 3G or wifi . The higher the cpu usage , the faster the battery drains . I 'm actually surprised you get as much battery life as you do , that seems pretty good to me .
It likely was screensaver 's fault : I was using " Word of the day " , it has n't happened any more since I 've switched to " Classic " .
Rob , basically I do n't think your a ) and b ) answers are right . a ) . As far as my iTunes Pop-Up says ( it 's in German ) , my whole iPhone gets wiped and the stuff replaced . Replaced in this case seems not to be " add to " / " overwrite existing " . b ) . iTunes 10 helped me put this to the test . Actually it " previews " the whole process it seems , before I click " Apply " . Which I wo n't ( yet ) , as it obviously wipes my existing 33 folders and only leaves 10 folders ! I wonder why ? Screenshots : <URL> and <URL> . Now that does n't look like what we all want . I assume Apple just offers no way . I just wonder is there no way to backup the phone now and use this backup ? I frankly never occupied my mind with the backup files created . Sadly I just reinstalled Windows 7 a few weeks ago - and I frankly did n't backup those " backup " files ...
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this . Here is a how to create and use an AppleScript to open . lyx files : Open AppleScript file named : copy the file to Note : I did n't have this folder , so I created both and Now , go to in Finder , right click on Downloads folder , click List should appear and contain Now you 're good to go - whenever you 'll download lyx file it should open automatically when ever you download it . NOTE : If you want to open another file type , simply change NOTE II : If you want several types use : Enjoy !
You can use <URL> . This allows you to set the opacity of a window from the Window menu .
You can add an AppleLanguages array to the plist of an application : See for the language identifiers . <URL> is a GUI for doing the same thing .
Look for the section titled " Changing Power Management Settings " in this <URL> . An AppleScript example from the guide :
Current Period refers to the period of time since the last reset . This is nothing to do with the cellular plan . You can see the beginning date of the current period by scrolling to the bottom and looking at the date under the reset option . If you have never reset the counter , it has been counting up like the odometer of a car since you started the OS at a clean restore .
Go to the podcast page in your iTunes Library by selecting it in the menu bar , then click the gear next to the title , then , under " This Computer " , select Download Episodes > Off
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
end question
start question
How to delete emails instead of archiving them on iPhone & iPad ?
Simply go to Settings - > Mail , Contacts , Calendars - > Your Gmail Account and turn " Archive Messages " to " Off " .
There are two options for files that came from a Windows drive : Right click on the file and select " Get Info " ( or mark all files and press + + ) to get the file information . There in the " General " - tab you can find and opt-out the " Locked " - option . Trash and delete them . Open / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app and type , then . If that fails , try and enter your password . Mac has other steps if you ca n't unlock the file - see <URL> for details on immutable flags and if the directory permissions wo n't let you modify a file . The two above steps handle the vast majority of locked files on the mac .
You need to enable the " Delete Email As Trash " setting through Google Sync . Google added this feature in 2012 : On your iOS device , visit <URL> and log in . Select your device from the list on the " Manage devices " page . Click the " Enable " Delete Email As Trash " for this device " checkbox . Tap " Save " to accept the new setting . Now when you delete an email on your iOS device , it will be sent to the " Trash " folder instead of the " All Mail " folder in Gmail . Note : This feature is only relevant if you 've setup your Gmail account in iOS mail as a Microsoft Exchange account .
Numbers seems to use the decimal separator selected in System Preferences : I did n't find any way to use both comma and period as decimal separators though . Note that if you change the region from the menu at the top , it also affects things like the default values of locale variables in Terminal and iTerm .
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
I usually place the lighter drive in the optical bay since it 's not as securely connected to the body as the intended HDD slot . This also plays into the rubber shock mounts for the HDD which both protect it from accelerations as well as isolating/dampening whatever vibration the drive motors cause . As phrased , you may get a null answer since there may not be any issues with either placement . Macs can boot from external drives and have no problems writing the sleep image to an external USB or Thunderbolt drive since the OS wants to keep the system on one drive . The only issues I 've seen are people using links to place some of the core OS and support files on a secondary drive rather than just placing user files ( home folders ) and safer documents on a manual/fixed tiered storage system . With core storage and Apple 's broad support of any SSD to comprise a FusionDrive the need to micromanage what files live on which tier of storage might hopefully become a thing of the past .
Gah . After searching for an hour , I finally found the link just minutes after I posted this question . Go figure . You can get the Windows 10 . iso here after answering a few questions : <URL>
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
You can option-click the shuffle button at the top of an album to queue it in a random order . Oddly , if I do that for the artist it only adds the first song in the list . Weird . And you ca n't intermingle different albums like this , you have to do that manually in the Up Next panel . Correction : if you go to Artists view , select All Artists and then option-click the shuffle button next to one of the artist names , it will queue all the songs by that artist in a random order . If you select an individual artist and do it , it will only queue the first song .
Plex Media Server offers " sync " functionality to devices if you have a Plex Pass subscription ( starts at $ 3.99 / month , less per month for longer subscription periods ) . You initiate the sync either from the Plex web app or device by selecting movie ( s ) to sync , and it then transcodes your selected media into a format appropriate for iPad . You then open the iOS app to download it directly to the device . See <URL> for a run-through . For adding torrents , the best solution I 've found is to use Dropbox . If you do n't already have a Dropbox account , <URL> . Download the <URL> onto your server . In the Mac menu bar , a new icon of an open box will appear . Tap on that , then tap on the folder icon to the left to open the Dropbox folder . Here , create a folder called " torrents " ( or whatever you like ) . In Transmission , go to Preferences > Transfers and set the Auto Add directory to the Dropbox directory you just created , which will be stored locally at / Users/yourusername/Dropbox / torrents / or whatever you called it . On the iPad , install the Dropbox client . Next time you want to add a torrent , act as if you 're downloading it to the iPad . Since you ca n't actually download files to the iPad , the screen will change to show the filename , and will have a " Open in Dropbox " link at the top-right . Tap on that , then select the torrents folder you created in Dropbox . Tap Save at the upper right . After a few seconds , the file will sync to Dropbox from the iPad , then from Dropbox to your server . Since Transmission is watching the directory where it will appear on your server , it will be picked up and automatically added . There 's a few steps involved in setting this workflow up , but once done , it 's maintenance-free .
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
Here 's how you do it in iOS 4.1 : In Safari , hit the bookmarks icon Press the " Edit " button in the lower left In the lower right , a " New Folder " button appears . Press it . Type in the name of the folder and hit " Done " on the keyboard .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
The Music app is pretty limited in terms of the metadata it displays . At the moment it 's not possible to view the play counts for songs . Third party apps can access your music collection , but I 'm not sure how much metadata is exposed to them . It may be possible to see play counts with a third party app , but I do n't know for sure , nor do I know of any apps that do this .
There 's a nice looking piece of freeware worth trying called <URL> which looks like it 'll do the trick .
The obvious benefit is to recompile the tools with optional features that Apple chose to not enable when they compiled the tools . Also , you can get newer options / patches / bug-fixes if you do n't mind the duplication and the fact that sometimes you also get new bugs with the newer code as well . The downside is that tools like tar and zip know about Mac OS X metadata that the MacPorts versions probably do not .
There really does n't seem to be a way to view this info at all on iOS 5 iPads , in Apple 's " Music " app . Further iPad iOS 5 podcast annoyances : If the main " Music " you listen to is podcasts , it 's really annoying that you can no longer promote the " Podcasts " button from " More " to the main view : so you always have to go to " More " to see your podcasts . If you have a mixture of video and audio podcasts , you have to switch between the " Videos " and " Music " apps to see them . For all these reasons , I gave up on the built-in iOS 5 podcast tools , and switched to <URL> . It costs a small amount of money , but has so many convenience features built in that it 's well worth it . ( It 's actually iPhone only - but works fine on iPad , at 2x size , even for showing videos ) I particularly like : It downloads the latest episode of shows you subscribe to , but seamlessly shows you earlier ones too , so you can easily stream them Automatic downloading via WiFi - so no more need to connect my device to a PC to update lots of podcasts Back and forward buttons to go move 30 seconds back or forwards - or you can change the settings , and make these buttons go back/forward 10 , then 20 then 30 seconds if clicked in quick succession . Small icon at top-right of screen shows/hide details of podcasts . Sleep facility ( 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 minutes ) ( I 'd like to include a link to the original question here where I saw Podcaster first mentioned , but there are so many answers singing its praises , I really do n't remember which one I saw . ) Edit And to answer your question about Tiesto 's Club Life Podcast , yes , Podcaster displays that well . It shows the images as you listen , and at bottom-right of the screen there 's a little chapters icon that shows name of each chapter , and its position ( in minutes and seconds ) Furthermore , you can swipe upwards on the screen , when playing , to show the chapters .
You can delete videos from the Videos app by tapping and holding on the thumbnail , then pressing the red X that appears in the corner ( just like deleting apps from your home screen ) . To delete audio podcasts , find them in the Music app , swipe your finger across the name of the podcast ( or episode ) and press the delete button . ( The same way you would with emails . )
By templates I think you mean canned messages . Here 's a workaround ( <URL> ) : Create a " Templates " folder . Create and save a new draft message ( including title ) . Move the draft to " Templates " folder . Whenever you need to use that template select a message and then choose Send Again from the Messages menu . Make necessary modification and send .
Indeed a severe annoyance . I spent a lot of time on the phone to Apple and no solution was achieved , only " wait " . I ended up doing a simultaneous reinstallation of OS X 10.10.3 and my iOS 8 devices and this has apparently made them go away . I have since upgraded to OS X 10.11 and iOS 9 and they disappeared for several months . However , they have just come back this AM for no apparent reason on startup .
end question
start question
Can you copy files to / Applications using Launchbar ?
Once you use the Instant Send hotkey to select the file in Launchbar ... You can start typing " Applications " to select your folder . Then press Return and select Copy to " Applications " from the menu .
<URL> . Not sure why I did n't think of this earlier . In short : Apple has some other tricks to try if you 're on an OS prior to Mountain Lion , but it looks like this should work for Leopard through Mountain Lion . You can confirm by comparing output of before and after resetting the SyncServices folder . You should see some lines about your device prior and no lines about it after .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
Mac OS 9 has no built-in support for Windows file sharing . There were third-party file sharing applications for Mac OS to allow access to Windows networks , and there were also Windows server tools which could allow Mac access to Windows servers . One tool I remember using was DAVE , from Thursby software . It used to be a Windows networking kit for Mac , but has morphed into something else now . If you found an older version it might work , but I doubt it would be compatible with the latest Windows . I 'd recommend looking for an FTP server for your Windows machine and a FTP client for your Mac .
If you are connecting through the Personal Hotspot on iPhone , it will switch to using the cellular data network that your phone uses . This is the nature of how the Personal Hotspot feature is designed . See <URL> on Apple 's website . So in your case , your laptop was not piggybacking through the wifi connection on iPhone . It 's an unfortunate design choice but as far as I know a current limitation . Maybe with a jailbroken device you could get past that but does n't seem worth it for this case at all .
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
You could just <URL> like this : See for a reference of the date format .
Unless it 's a hacked system , then no , it will not have access since access is only possible via API 's that require granting access .
<URL> can do this . Select " Streaming/Transcoding Wizard " from the File menu . Choose " Transcode/Save to file " . On the next page click " Choose " and open your AC3 file . On the next page tick " Transcode audio " and choose " MPEG 4 Audio " and choose the desired bitrate . Click " Next " , choose " MPEG 4 / MP4 " , click " Next " again and " Choose ... " where to save the file . " Next " and " Finish " . The file VideoLAN creates has the extension . mp4 , change it to . m4a and there you go .
Not sure what the ' preparing ' stage actually does . I suspect it could have something to do with verifying that the destination does n't have files/folders that are present in the source ( leading to it having to ask you what to do about the conflict ) . In either case , if you are comfortable with terminal , you can use rsync which begins copying immediately and gives you feedback right away . I would use something like : rsync -- partial -- progress - av ~ / Desktop/MyFolder / Volumes/MyTimeCapsule / Good luck !
Using the Finder , you can sort the Applications folder ( or any other folder ) by size , and let it calculate the space inside each folder in addition to sizing the flat files . The key command Command-Shift-A will open the Applications folder from Finder The key command Command-J will Show View Options Then ensure the checkbox to calculate all sizes is checked . Lastly , click on the size column in the finder window ( making sure you are in list view ( Command-2 ) to sort by size . Keep clicking to reverse the sort order if the small applications get sorted to the top . You will also want to look at your home folder as well as the / Library folder to see if some applications have large media files that you might be able to delete if you do n't do movie editing or need all the Garage Band loops for example .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
<URL> from the App Store lets you browse your shared network folders .
An update for LaunchBar 6 Version 6.0 introduced a slick way of selecting multiple items . The LaunchBar folks call it the &#8220; Sixth Sense &#8221; . Selected items are held in a &#8220; staging area &#8221; and can be acted upon all at once using typical LaunchBar tools . Typing Command-A will select all items in the search list . Typing a Comma ( &#8220; , &#8221; ) will select the current item and allow you to move on to select more . Pressing Shift will scrolling up or down with the arrow keys select continuously as you scroll You can undo these actions by repeating them with a selected file . Hitting Escape clears the selections . The selection then works with other actions : Press Tab to send them to another folder , etc. . There &#8217; s a discussion at the <URL>
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
Sadly , you ca n't select a single word from a received SMS . You 're going to have to copy the whole SMS to a note ( Or to the " reply " input ) , then select the part you want from that note . That said , if the sent code is numeric , a user can directly copy it . iOS will interpret it as a possible phone number , and allow several options when the number is touched &amp; held down .
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
rsync ( from Terminal ) has an option for that ( -- ignore-errors ) . However crafting the right command line arguments may be somewhat complicated . A nice rsync GUI is <URL> ( donationware ) After you are satisfied with the cloning setting , launch clone in CCC and immediately after run from terminal and you will see the right command line arguments . Then just add -- ignore-errors
end question
start question
How can I use the dvdbackup tool in Mac OS X ?
From the man page : This action creates a valid DVD-Video structure that can be burned to a DVD - / + R ( W ) with help of mkisofs version 1.11 a27 or later <URL> Honestly I have never used this tool on Mac OS X , if you want to do some dvd ripping and this keeps frustrating you , <URL> is pretty good , or you can even use the built in <URL> to do a image backup of said DVD .
<URL> is a tool which ' locks ' the keyboard . It can be enabled or disabled with the mouse .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
this might help : <URL> long story short . Update dropbox is what they say . worked for me , so should work for you :)
The first thing you should try is installing the <URL> . If that does n't replace those files then you 'd have to reinstall OS X over your existing install . However , since you 're already messing around inside the System folder , you may be interested in trying to copy those files from your Recovery HD partition . To do this , you need to mount the Recovery HD , then mount the Base System image on it . Mount the Recovery HD in Terminal with this command : Mount the BaseSystem.dmg with this command : You can then try copying the files from the " Mac OS X Base System " disk image to your system folder . After copying , make sure the owner/permissions are correct ( running Disk Utility 's repair permissions would be a good idea ) . I have n't tested this , but the file sizes of each is the same in both the Base System image and the full install of OS X , so it seems likely they 're the same .
Apple documents the open source components for each release at the web page : <URL> Internally , they clearly do work before it 's publicly documented as we have 10.9.2 out today but only 10.9 is listed publicly with the versions .
As far as I know , it 's not possible to do so dynamically . What you can do is change the icon manually ( but then you have to do it for each folder of course ... ) . Open your icon with Preview . Then copy the image by using the build in copy/paste functionality . Select the whole image with cmd + A and copy it with cmd + C . Then open the ' Info ' window ( right-click and Get Info ) of the folder and select the icon on the upper left corner . If you paste cmd + V the image , you 'll see the folder icon got replaced by the image . And of course , <URL> .
If you have bootcamp 3.1 and install windows 7 with your bootcamp you can do it without problem but if you installed other type of windows I recommended you read <URL> . Edited 1 trick is just dragged the iTunes library into the iTunes window on my bootcamp partition and left the files where they are on the mac disk and it works just fine .
It may be a bug , but I am thinking it may mean your Spotlight index is corrupt . I just tried deleting Evernote from my Applications folder . After authenticating , it moved it to the trash . I then checked launchpad again , and it was no longer there . Then , when I dragged it back out of the trash and placed back into Applications folder . Relaunched launchpad , and it was there again on the last page . As in , worked as expected here . Launchpad keeps its own plist of what files there are , etc , and thats why there are some modification tools to allow to you to edit it . But I am assuming they would use spotlight to ' watch ' your Applications folder to add new items not through the Mac App Store . I assume Spotlight because its a great tool for the job , installing Lion does a huge spotlight re-index , and they do use spotlight often behind the scenes . First , the GUI way <URL> ( I do the command line way below ) : In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy add the drive you want to re-index Quit System 's preferences Logout of your sessions Login again :-) In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy remove the drive you want to re-index Wait . . a faily long time . You should see mdworker and/or mds running Personally , I have always done it <URL> . Launch ' Terminal ' ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) At the command prompt , type this exactly : sudo mdutil - E / You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privelages to run You will receive a confirmation message saying that index will be rebuilt Wait until index is finished rebuilding , this can take a while depending on the size of your hard drive , amount of files , etc. . While I ca n't find any documentation online that 100 % confirms that Launchpad uses Spotlight for this , this would be the first place I would look for the problem you are having .
You can press the option key to change the behaviour move instead of copy between different volumes copy instead of move on the same volume
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) guest in VirtualBox 4.1 greater Whilst end user forums are currently limited to Mac OS X Server , not updated for Lion , there is <URL> . With the most recent VirtualBox it is unnecessary to convert disk images ; . dmg files are recognised . Depending on your approach , you might see : -- ( <URL> ) -- I saw that at least once . Suggestion A : await media from Apple I recommend this most strongly . Await Apple 's provision of Lion on a USB thumb drive . It may be something greater than 11A511 and if so , that greatness may be more suitable for use in virtual machines without the need to hack ( see caution below ) . Suggestion B : attempt upgrade from Snow Leopard within the virtual machine In the virtual machine : install Snow Leopard then ( honouring Apple 's license for Snow Leopard as far as possible in this situation ) use that installation for nothing other than an immediate upgrade to Lion . Attention please to <URL> . Suggestion C : hobby hacking with BaseSystem.dmg mount the hidden Apple_Boot Recovery HD use or to set aside from that volume a copy of the following file : unmount Recovery HD use <URL> with the keyword to remove the flag from the copy that you set aside if you can boot the virtual machine from that . dmg then use Mac OS X Utilities to reinstall using the electronic software distribution downloaded from Apple if at step ( 5 ) you fail , discuss in <URL> . Suggestion D : hobby hacking with InstallESD.dmg At least one Apple Exchange user reports some success with a home-produced DVD burnt from an This may be most tempting and most likely to yield immediate success , of sorts , but in my estimation : hacking with this particular . dmg ( ignoring Apple 's . app for 11A511 as a whole ) carries the greatest long-term risks . Caution ! By using any . dmg out of context , as suggested above , you may be risking the integrity of your installation in ways that we can not predict . Please consider the following extract from Ask Different Chat : <URL> With that caution in mind , my strongest recommendation is ( A ) to wait for Apple to provide USB flash media ( <URL> ) with the assumption that it will be both ( i ) greater than 11A511 and ( ii ) more suitable for virtual machines and other environments that lacked broad support from Apple on the day of Lion 's release . ( Bear in mind : day one was almost totally oriented to download-based upgrades from Snow Leopard . )
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Any computer that shipped with Lion or Mountain Lion has <URL> , which is a very limited installer that downloads the full OS from Apple and installs it . To get into the Recovery mode , just boot while holding down commandR , and it will prompt you for the rest . However you can also do a direct clone of your existing disk to your SSD , which will avoid having to download the installer ( it 's about 4 GB ) or reinstall all your programs and data . You 'll need an external enclosure to put one of the drives in . You can do this with the built-in <URL> , or a tool like <URL> ( the free version of which suffices for this task ) .
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
You can install Soundflower . It 's a great utility that creates virtual input and output devices . So you could route QuickTime player , for example , as the input for the dictation . <URL>
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
It uses <URL> . But that 's a bit of a marketing term in so much as there is not one single thing called Quartz , but a group of things that work together to make the system called Quartz . Specifially , Quartz encompasses the set of systems needed to do rendering ( Quartz 2D ) , font management , graphics card interaction ( Quartz Compositor ) , OpenGL support , 3D acceleration and what not . The Quartz Compositor is the piece of the Quartz bundle that provides the server and window compositing and management features normally performed by the XServer and XClient pair . An addendum to this question might be : why did n't Apple just use X11 and the X Server ? And there 's <URL> from one of the primary Quartz developers : What Apple is providing is an Apple-original window system that is graphics model agnostic , as well as a vector drawing system that maps very well to PDF , which is a sort of PostScript without the non-graphical operators . This is packaged under the name ' Quartz ' for easy reference by Marketing types . The window system is designed to support both buffered ( like an offscreen PixMap ) and unbuffered windows , and is graphics model agnostic , working equally well with QuickDraw , OpenGL , the Quartz drawing engine , X11 , and third party solutions , and managing window geometry for the Classic , Carbon , and Cocoa environments . The server portion is a hybridization of screen arbiter and compositor models ( and if that 's all Geek to you , do n't worry about it ) . The Quartz drawing engine supports drawing primitives similar to the graphics primitives that might be found in the DPSClient single-operator primitives library for X and NeXTSTEP . There are no math and flow control primitives , as these can be done more efficiently in the native compiled code . There are no DPS or PS wrappers , as this optimization for server-side graphics is not needed in the Quartz client-side graphics model . The operations provide imaging and path construction and filling operations as well as some interesting other bits that map well into the direction that 2D drawing is headed . ( See Longhorn , or the X raster projects . ) The drawing engine can output to rasters ( like a window ! ) , as well as PS and PDF streams to feed printers . The Mac OS X printing system takes advantage of the capabilities of Quartz to support all sorts of printers , and make the life of printer driver developers much , much easier . Things we 'd need to add/extend in X Window software ( protocol + server + manager + fonts + ... ) : Extend font server and services to vend outlines and antialiased masks , support more font types , handle font subsetting . Extend drawing primitives to include PS-like path operations . Add dithering and phase controls . Add ColorSync support for drawing and imaging operations , display calibration Add broad alpha channel support and Porter-Duff compositing , both for drawing in a window and for interactions between windows . Add support for general affine transforms of windows Add support for mesh-warps of windows Make sure that OpenGL and special video playback hardware support is integrated , and behaves well with all above changes . We find that we typically stream 200 Mb/sec of commands and textures for interactive OpenGL use , so transport efficiency could be an issue . So , yes , it looks like we can use X for Quartz . All we need do is define extensions for and upgrade the font server , add dithering with phase controls to the X marking engine , add a transparency model to X imaging with Porter-Duff compositing support , make sure GLX gets in , upgrade the window buffering to include transparency , mesh warps , and really good resampling , and maybe augment the transport layer a bit . Ummm ... There does n't appear to be much code left from the original X server in the drawing path or windowing machinery , and it does n't appear that apps relying on these extensions can work with any other X server . Just what did we gain from this ? Oh , yeah . My mom can run an xterm session on her desktop now without downloading the Apple X11 package , a shareware X server or buying a software package . Been there , evaluated that .
If you purchase an international or unlocked iPhone , it comes with this SIM ejection tool . They can not be purchased from Apple , however they are sold on eBay/Amazon/etc .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
end question
start question
How to remove Windows Operating system from Bootcamp ?
Apple <URL> : Boot Camp : Remove Windows from your Mac How you remove Windows from your Mac depends on whether you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions or one that has a single partition . Important : Back up all important data stored on your Windows partition . If you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions Start up your Mac in OS X. Quit all open apps and log out any other users . Open Boot Camp Assistant , then click Continue . Select " Remove Windows 7 or later version , " then click Continue . Do one of the following : If your Mac has a single internal disk , click Restore . If your Mac has multiple internal disks , select the Windows disk , select " Restore disk to a single OS X partition , " then click Continue . If you installed Windows on a disk that has a single partition Start up your Mac in OS X. Open Disk Utility , located in the Other folder in Launchpad . Select the Windows disk , click Erase , choose the Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) > format , then click the Erase button .
<URL> should allow you to copy the music from any iOS device ( jailbroken or not ) onto a Windows or Mac computer . See <URL> support article for more relevant information .
When in the boot manager ( the one when you press ⌥ Option on startup ) , click on the arrow ( for the Mac OS X partition ) . The boot priority should then default to the Mac OS X one . Otherwise , you can try going to the Startup Disk preference pane in System Preferences , and try setting it ( by restarting ) .
Welcome , Martijn . I always recommend Apple 's videos : <URL> For now I would also recommend you not worry about terminal/UNIX . Learn to use the Mac OS using the GUI at first , getting used to how it behaves and in which ways it might be different from the Windows operating systems you are used to . Good luck ! EDIT : Also , it does n't really matter where things " should " go on a Mac . You can put applications on the desktop , documents in Applications , etc , etc. . Although I do n't recommend that . There is a Documents folder for documents and an Applications folder for apps . Treat the Library and System folders with care ( IE -- do not go into them or manipulate them until/unless you know what they are , what 's inside and what the effect of your actions will be ) and you will be fine . Backups are also your best friend .
Prerequisites : -- admin account &amp; password -- AFP-share &amp; server IP-address Boot the Computer to Recovery Mode . Open Terminal in the Utilities menu At the prompt enter : Create a sub-directory in Volumes as a mount point for your time machine share : Enter Enter . pwd should show / Volumes/TimeMachine Mount the network share with your admin loginname &amp; password : If your password contains wonky characters like :@ \ / use <URL> to <URL> them Enter : . Note the exact name of your sparsebundle . Enter : . You may enter the first letters of the sparsebundle name and then hit TAB . Hitting tab should auto-complete the Time Machine sparsebundle name . It may not look the same as above as it escapes spaces and special characters . After auto-completing the name , hit return . If you return to the prompt the sparsebundle has been opened . Enter and ⏎ and quit Terminal . Example steps 3-11 : Select and click Continue . After a search it should show you the Time Machine Backups directory as a volume that contains your backup . Select that ( in my example ' Time Machine Backup ' ) and click Continue . In the next screen you will see all the backups that you can restore from listed by time and date . Select the backup you want to restore and continue and finally choose your destination disk :
I found on this site <URL> that you can use something called Brasso to clean the back of it . It has a mild abrasive in oil . it will cost you about 5 dollars . Then to clean the face , either a microfiber cloth or a t-shirt . EDIT : You could try <URL> its designed for iPods and Macs ( or so it says ) .
Instructions from official CocoaSuite support To deactivate , delete this folder : Other files and folders installed that can be deleted ( ~ stands for your home directory ) :
Go to the Window menu and un-check the Application Frame menu item . The palettes will pop to the edges of your screen and the documents will turn into floating windows .
You ca n't clear this list or remove a song , unfortunately , but the list is limited to 5 songs , so adding new songs will clear previous ones . I noticed this so I said , dammit , I might as well set one song for each workday . :)
If there are n't many photos , the easiest way to do it is simply delete the photos on the phone . Unfortunately , this means selecting each photo individually as there is no ' select all ' option . To avoid individually selecting photos on the iPhone , you 'll want to use the ' delete ' option when prompted at the end of importing . Because iPhoto only deletes the photos that were imported at that time , you wo n't be able to do this with your ' normal ' iPhoto library . To get around this , simply create another ( throw away ) iPhoto library to import the photos . Select ' delete ' when prompted at the end of the import to delete the photos from the iPhone . Then you can delete this throw away library on your Mac . To create a new iPhoto library , hold down the Option ⌥ key when launching iPhoto . This will display a window asking which library you would like to open or create a new library .
Apple <URL> : Boot Camp : Remove Windows from your Mac How you remove Windows from your Mac depends on whether you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions or one that has a single partition . Important : Back up all important data stored on your Windows partition . If you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions Start up your Mac in OS X. Quit all open apps and log out any other users . Open Boot Camp Assistant , then click Continue . Select " Remove Windows 7 or later version , " then click Continue . Do one of the following : If your Mac has a single internal disk , click Restore . If your Mac has multiple internal disks , select the Windows disk , select " Restore disk to a single OS X partition , " then click Continue . If you installed Windows on a disk that has a single partition Start up your Mac in OS X. Open Disk Utility , located in the Other folder in Launchpad . Select the Windows disk , click Erase , choose the Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) > format , then click the Erase button .
To select a continuous grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Shift key , then click the last one in the group . To select a random grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Command ⌘ key ( on a Mac keyboard ) or Windows key ( on a Windows keyboard on a Mac ) , then click the next one and so on until all are selected . You can let up on the Command ⌘ key or Windows key in-between selecting however make sure you press it before selecting the next one or it will break the grouping and you 'd have to start over . You can deselect by pressing the Command ⌘ key or Windows key , then click the one ( s ) to be removed .
You can turn off iCloud Photo Library on your Mac by following the steps in this Apple support doc : <URL> . I always backup my photos first , just in case I make a mistake . If this is an option for you then I recommend doing the backup before you make any changes . On your Mac , go to next to Photos Deselect This will stop photos from syncing to your Mac . As you 've seen , do not select Disable and Delete from this same menu as it will delete your photos from every device .
Found a way here that solved most of my own problem : <URL>
One option is to boot from your Mac OS X Install CD and edit the partitions using the Disk Utility ( found in the menu ) . This can be very handy for removing partitions that just wo n't die .
Use <URL> to resize your existing partitions . Make a bootable disc or USB stick . And be careful , Gparted can easily destroy your data . If this does n't work then you will probably struggle to find any other option . There is no way to my knowledge to change MBR to GPT without destroying all of the partitions and their associated data .
Go to the " Settings " app " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Tap on your Gmail account In the dialog that comes up tap the big red " Delete Account " button at the bottom .
I have the exact same problem . While you should anonymize yourself in the prefs , I do n't fully trust that method , so : Make a copy of the annotated PDF file Drag and drop to open in a text editor like TextWrangler , or hex editor like HexEdit ( Do n't worry about any binary-looking weird characters ) Search for your name and replace with the exact same number of Xs or I usually throw in a space among the Xs so it looks like a different name . Save the file in place Open in Preview and mouse over the annotations to see the anonymized version
Here 's what worked for me : use to find the small Microsoft Reserved partition you 're trying to delete but disk utility ( or the command-line equivalent ) wo n't allow . Let 's say it 's on disk 99 partition 400 ( mine was on disk 0 partition 4 ) The above reformats the partition to journaled HFS + and once you 've done that you can just simply delete it ( and then resize etc. as you wish ) . Note : I 've used / dev/disk99s400 because that should not ever work , you have to replace those with the right disk and partition . WARNING : Destructive , high risk . ALWAYS do a full back up first before screwing with partitions . ALWAYS .
Have you checked out the built in Screen Sharing in OS X ? Check out System Preferences - > Sharing - > Screen Sharing . Click on the Computer Settings button and you should see a dialog which allows you to enable VNC connections . You should then be able to use any VNC Client like Chicken of the VNC to connect to the remote system running Lion .
end question
start question
How to press Alt Gr in Parallels Desktop ?
According to this <URL> you can press ctrl-alt to get AltGr . Sometimes that does n't work , so you 'll have to remap your keys under windows , which is described in the linked to article . There 's also <URL> which suggests you do this : Stop any running VMs , close all instances of Parallels Desktop for Mac . Launch " Macintosh HD " - " Applications " -- " Utilities " -- " Terminal " . Type the following commands in Terminal ( without quotes ) , please mind that the system might ask you for the Administrator password after each command -- type it and hit Enter : " sudo touch / Library/Parallels / . keyboard_config " " sudo chmod 666 / Library/Parallels / . keyboard_config " " sudo echo " numenterisaltgr " > / Library/Parallels / . keyboard_config " Close the Terminal . Launch Parallels Desktop for Mac and check Right Enter key behavior in VM -- everything should work as you 've set .
Option + Tab should n't be assigned to switching windows by default . You could 've reassigned it in the Keyboard preferences : It could also be handled by some third party app like Witch , LiteSwitch X , or Keyboard Maestro on the MacBook Pro .
Wiggle is the edit mode . ( so you can delete or uninstall the apps that came from the app store ) Holding alt is the quickest way to enter edit mode .
The command will continue the startup process where it left off , leaving you in the normal graphical environment . But note that you will not be logged in as root , it 'll take you to the normal login screen . If you want to log in as root in GUI mode , you 'll need to set a root password ( which you can do in single-user mode with the command ) .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
First off , it 's important to note that Apple 's Remote Desktop is not Microsoft 's Remote Desktop , and the two are not interchangeable . That said , you can still use various VNC products to connect from the Windows machine to the Mac . From there , it 's standard networking . If you want to leave the Mac Mini at home , you 'll need to make sure that you can access the required ports , whether by port forwarding , or by an SSH tunnel/VPN allowing you to connect to your home network . If you bring the Mac Mini with you , then you can easily create an ad hoc Wi-Fi network to connect them both too , in which case they will be on the same network , and you can connect that way . ( You may need a monitor and keyboard attached to the Mac Mini at some point to configure this . ) Additionally , the Mac can automatically make any standard Ethernet cable into a crossover cable , such that an Ethernet cable connecting your Mac to your PC will create a network connection for the two machines , which , again , you can use as a standard network to connect from one to the other . The network can be WiFi , direct point to point ethernet , point to point thunderbolt , point to point firewire or over a wired switched network of any of the above carriers .
It turns out Yosemite enables mouse acceleration by default . it can be disabled by typing this in terminal : After changing this setting in Terminal , you 'll need to logout and log back in to your Mac . Relaunching Finder will work too ( option + right-click on Finder icon in dock - > Relaunch )
Click the down arrow on the column header and select Sort Ascending or Sort Decending .
The MS RDC has a preference menu so that you can customize the shortcuts .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
You can move your wallpapers into and have them in single location . This should n't affect the system because I have the wallpapers since Leopard and each OS update only include more wallpapers . Go ahead and include yours in there . Make sure you make a backup of just in case you want to revert them back to default state .
No , your Windows VM and all the programs installed on it are stored on a virtual hard drive file . Upgrading Parallels wo n't affect the VM .
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
I have n't seen fixed disk support in Parallels Desktop . All my virtual machines has about 64Gb HDD , but space occupied is about 8-10 Gb . I have configuration " Automatically compress virtual disks " on ( as default value ) .
The best advice . Trail both and then decide . I was a long time fan of VMWare , however recently moved to Parallels . Side by side , Parallels gave me a 5.1 experience index for Windows 7 , and VMWare Fusion gave me a 4.9 . Performance wise both are solid on my hardware , however I prefer the interface and coherence features of Parallels over Unity . This is however a personal preference . Full disclosure : I run a MacBook Pro i7 , 8GB 's of RAM and a 500GB 7200RPM HDD . Both product does the job , and both work well . They are also in the same price bracket . You also ca n't compare features since both have the same functionality , just the method of implementation differs . The choice between the two is really up to you and how you use Windows virtualised . I game in Windows , and Parallels provided me a better experience . I also had issues running Expression Web , Silverlight and WPF in VMWare due to the graphics card , but this has apparently been resolved in the latest update . My wife however prefers VMWare and finds it easier to use then Parallels . Moving machines between the two are fairly easy . Use one for the full trail , and then transfer your machine to the other and trial it . Do a comparison on which one works for you .
Command ⌘ + Option + Esc opens the " Force Quit Application " dialog , which lets you select and kill running applications . If that does not work , Command ⌘ + Option + Shift + Esc held down for 5 seconds kills the foremost application .
We use Apple Configurator to supervise iOS devices and then Meraki MDM to remotely manage them . We push out a webclip and a global HTTP proxy setting to all devices this way . Meraki MDM is free for up to 100 clients , after that you have to pay per client up to and including the first 100 . We were using the Apple OS X server app for awhile and while it does have some great features it is severely lacking in some key areas . You get what you pay for .
Pressandhold.app should be in exactly the same place in Yosemite that it was in Mavericks . I just checked on both my Macs that I upgraded to Yosemite . exists exactly where it should . And to try to confirm whether this is a holdover from Mavericks ( since both my Macs were upgraded from Mavericks to Yosemite ) I checked the Info.plist with the PressAndHold.app bundle . It lists " 10.10 " as the LSMinimumSystemVersion and " macosx10 .10 internal " as the DTSDKName both of which indicate Yosemite . So please check that folder on your Mac again . I 'd be very surprised if that folder was empty .
Type this in Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) : The first command sets the hidden files visibility to hidden ; the second one forces Finder to restart . This is needed for the first command to take effect . You can also log out/reboot instead of killing the Finder , but the first command is needed to change a hidden preference ( one that the Finder ca n't change using the normal Finder view options or preferences ) .
You can do this in the terminal ( shell ) . Open the terminal and type to change you current working directory to the Desktop . Then for the different cases you listed : is the command to move files . You can move multiple files at once : . The asterisk * is the so-called wild card character . So * stands for every character or character sequence . would mean that it would affect all files that end with . You could also do it other way around , e.g. , to affect all files that start with . If you want , you can copy the following lines into an empty text file and save it as and add to the first line . Make it executable by typing . Then , you can use it every time you want to move your files from your desktop by typing in the shell from your desktop . So the suggested script contents would could look like this : As mentioned in the comments , you can save it as and use to make it clickable and executable
end question
start question
How do I remove an iMessage account from OS X ( Yosemite ) Messages app ?
OK , I figured it out but it 's not straightforward . I figured it had to be stored in a . plist file somewhere , so I searched all the . plist files in for ones that contained the Apple ID I used for iMessages . These were the ones : When I searched for on the web I found a link to a <URL> on the Apple forums that also helped out . So basically , this is what I did : Delete the . plist files I mentioned above ( note , the last one with the UUID in the name is likely to be different for each user ) : Then I removed all the chat history and archive : Then I restarted the Mac just in case . Now the account and everything about it that ever existed on this machine is gone :)
Yes , you can . In Xcode , you can set archive for iOS Device even if you have n't got an iOS Device ( this is instead of " Simulator " ) and upload this binary to iTunes Connect perfectly fine .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
When in the boot manager ( the one when you press ⌥ Option on startup ) , click on the arrow ( for the Mac OS X partition ) . The boot priority should then default to the Mac OS X one . Otherwise , you can try going to the Startup Disk preference pane in System Preferences , and try setting it ( by restarting ) .
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
Drag anywhere in the circle to move the selection area &amp; use the dot on the right to resize . X on the left to cancel . <URL>
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
No you do n't need PC hardware since Yes you can delete OS X entirely after getting the drivers installed from Boot Camp on OS X. Follow the directions for creating the bootcamp USB key that comes with bootcamp ( you 'll need an 8GB key ) . When you boot from the bootcamp key and it gives you disk utility just delete the OSX partition ( I believe this is an option , it 's been a while ) And make the whole thing Winders . The Mac IS an Intel PC and Bootcamp is only the drivers and whatnot to create the bootable windows installer with the Mac drivers in it . Hold onto that key , it 's your repair disk and Windows re-installer should you need to sometime in the future .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
Go to the network preferences panel in System Preference Select airport , then ' Advanced ... ' Press the plus button It will work even when the network is n't near .
No For the moment Apple has been extremely quiet about how to access the protocol , and there has been no confirmed plans for iMessage to for the Mac . However , they will most likely release a version for every Apple platform . I do n't think however , they will create a web interface , since no one else has really come up with one that works well .
You can drag the home and root folders to the sidebar . They used to be there by default , but they were removed in 10.7 . I have also removed all of the default locations , so the root folder of column view windows is always or . ⇧ ⌘ G opens a Go to Folder sheet . It can also be opened by pressing or in file dialogs . You can show the path at the bottom by checking View > Show Path Bar : There is also a hidden preference for showing the path on the title bar :
In my case I wanted to format the parition as NTFS for installing Windows 7 on it . The last parameter is the partition 4 on first disk .
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
You can delete the stocks app from your phone on iOS 10 - and that removes it from the watch . There is n't a way to have it on the phone but not on the watch . There were currently no workarounds , jailbreaks or non-obvious ways hide and minimize the stocks app on the Apple Watch apps display on iOS 9 and associated watch OS . The rest of this answer applies if you can not upgrade to iOS 10 and watchOS 3 . Consider making a long tail arrangement of apps placing the ones you do n't want to see to the end of the line . In practice , you 'll see the few apps centered around the clock face central point of the graph .
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
Okay , I 'm going to chime in . Firstly , let 's look at your first question : Why does OS X warn a user before they launch it for the very first time ? OS X had instituted the added precaution for one important reason : so that apps would n't seemingly launch on their own . Obviously it would be crippling to workflow if the confirmation popped up every time the app was launched , so a first-time only policy was instituted . And that seems to be sufficient if you give it some thought , as that means any app that runs without the confirmation has already been approved once before , thus making it a " trusted " application . The implications here are n't measurable beyond this simple strategy . Apple wanted some assurance that programs would n't just be run without a level of consent . If they somehow happened to find their way on a user 's machine , they would n't be thought of as something " old " or something " trusted . " It 's not meant as a total safe-guard against malware , but rather almost as an important training tool . It gets the user to understand that OS X monitors these things . And that if an app is run , the system will be there to provide a little protection . If a user stumbles on a strange file somewhere , and double clicks on it , the system will check to see if it meets certain criteria . If it does , it 'll notify the user that it 's never been launched and is to be deemed " potentially " dangerous . It is then to the user to decide if they should run . It is a safeguard that does more to for user behavior than actual , hardcore system protection . So it 's not that there is a definitive threat . It is more a user-land security measure and perhaps even to be better thought of as a " pre-emptive " strike . To label it a clear cut case of either implement a security measure for a specific threat or axe it does n't apply in this case ( for the reason 's above ) . Think of it more along the vein of Apple being pro-active ( and quite clever ) . And it 's not that obtrusive is it ? Windows gives warnings each and every time . OS X delivers one just on the first run . It 's a sane compromise . Now , to get to the second tail of your query ( and excuse me if I 'm paraphrasing here , but I think this is what you 're driving at ) : Why does n't OS X have an anti-virus program to deal with these threats instead ? First , I think it 's important to square away the terminology . There are no known viruses that have propagated into the wild for OS X. OS X is based on a Unix structure , which poses a seriously problem for virus-makers . In a nutshell ( and excuse the oversimplification ) Windows marks everything with executable rights . From images , to text files , to even music . This is ultimately what allows virus-makers to , for a lack of a better term , go to town . Unix does n't exhibit this trait . It 's crafty with its privileges . So the likelihood that OS X ( and all Unix-based systems for that matter ) will ever need an anti-virus <URL> . Windows and Unix are fundamentally very different . Essentially , if you wanted to get a virus on OS X , you 'd require either root access or significant user activity . You could not deliver and run it from simply opening up an <URL> . Now that does not speak towards security , per se . OS X is not any more secure than Windows and this is a common misperception . This of course depends on your definition of security . It is largely immune to viruses ( I use the term " immune " loosely here ) but it is still susceptible to buffer-overlows that can allow root access . <URL> has razed OS X in seconds numerous times at the <URL> competition . He 's a masterful security researcher , but putting that aside , he shows that OS X ( along with pretty much everything else ) is not an iron horse . It can be exploited just like every other system . But the chances of being targeted by <URL> are rather slim . You 'll likely face a gauntlet of script-kiddies that pack ready-made tools that serve more to aggravate than deliver a focused attack . To this day , only one has managed to make the rounds -- enough to force Apple to step up it 's security measures : <URL> . And even with Mac Defender 's seaming success , it still required the user to navigate through a series of prompts via its native OS X installer ( note that later versions did n't require an administrative password ) . So you have to take the " success " of Mac Defender with a grain of salt . It was likely successful because it was the first of its kind , and exploited more the user 's blind faith in OS X than the system itself . People readily installed it thinking they were safe from harm because they are n't running Windows . So in closing , OS X does not require an anti-virus because quite simply , there are no known viruses making their way out in the wild . Proof-of-concepts do exist , but again , the likelihood that they will one day wreak havoc is very remote simply because propogation is incredibly difficult to sustain . Malware , on the other hand , has shown itself to be a cause for concern . OS X now contains a built in safety feature
By the general term " app " , you ostensibly mean App Store ? And if you did delete his Apple ID , then it would n't ask for updates . You can either use a third-party program to remove those apps , or first delete them from the applications directory , then from Application Support located at . If you can not find it , then go to Terminal , located in and execute : Then you can just delete the folder under the name of that app Then , simply logout of his Apple ID if you failed in deleting it , and login your Apple ID
end question
start question
How can I change the data source of a chart in Numbers ' 09 ?
As far as I know there is no way to make the desired changes all at once , but there is a way that you can make things significantly faster than creating a brand new chart . As it appears you 've already done , copy and paste the chart into your Numbers worksheet . Depending on the chart you 've created , select an individual line , bar , pie segment etc. and open the chart pane in the inspector . Here 's a screenshot of what that looks like ( with " Example 2 " being the copied and pasted chart ) : As you can see , in the field labeled " Data , " Table 1 is referenced . This source can easily be changed to a different table . Just delete the listed source and select the new source of data from your worksheet ( you do n't have to type in the source ) . Depending on your chart you may also want to change the data source for the x-axis labels . This is also controlled by the inspector . That can be changed here : While you 'll have to change the data source for each line of the chart , it 's certainly faster than creating a whole new chart and having to format it the way you 'd like .
You can go to Settings > Notifications > Messages and change the Repeat Alert option to Never . This will stop it from bugging you twice !
Steve There is no method on either iPad or iPhone to move an item between folders .
Yes - CCC copies by file and so will manage . This was my original setup and worked . It is now more complex as I now have more data on the source than can fit on the target , I manage this by choosing the files in CCC and deselecting ~ / Downloads / tmp etc. .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
Currently this is how the Apple Configurator works - it does n't have a provision to load a certificate but instead generates self-signed ones automatically . If I run across a way to hack this , I 'll link it here , but if you need profiles to arrive with a signed certificate look into Lion server or another MDM solution . In practice - you only see the certificat warning when you are sitting in frot of your Mac and connecting devices via USB . I 'm not sure what additional layer of securyity a signed certificate can provide in this case . It 's not like you are connecting to some remote server when these profiles get installed .
If you 've got tabular data ( which it sounds like you do ) , using a table is perfectly appropriate . The other way is with tabs . Show the ruler by hitting command-R ( if it 's not already visible ) . You should see triangles denoting the margins of the page . Click anywhere in the ruler to create a tab stop . Create some more . By default , tab stops are left-aligning , but if you double-click on an existing tab stop you cycle through center-aligning , right-aligning , and decimal-aligning ( useful for lining up numbers like $ 100.10 and $ 100 . ) . Once you 've got your tabs , start entering some text , with tabs where appropriate . If you want to adjust the tab stops , make sure to select the text it applies to first . If you want to get really smart , once you 've got everything set up exactly the way you like , you 'll create a style . Hit command-shift-T to show the styles drawer ( if it 's not already visible ) , and click the + at the bottom of the drawer . Create a new paragraph style and call it whatever you want . Then you can apply it consistently to new text in the document . Using columns to do this is possible but awkward . Using spaces is a bad idea because the text will never line up right -- plus it 's a PITA .
The best version control system I have tried is GIT together with <URL> . If you are just a single developer that works on a project then SVN is okayish . However when you start collaborating with other developers or work on multiple computers , then a distributed version control system really shines . A really good app for working with GIT is <URL> .
You can do this with the IF function . The syntax is ... This results in the following calculation : Result : An example for comparing a calculation in the : Result : However , this will return even if the number is , so instead ...
iTunes does n't offer this functionality natively : <URL> always comes in handy in these situations . In this case , however , there 's no easy solution , because there is no script that does that . You would need a combination of three scripts , which should work and should be fairly easy as soon as you have installed all three of them : Get <URL> and run it on the tracks you would like to number . This will add track numbers to the beginning of the track name . Run <URL> on the tracks , which will set the track tags based on the number you 've added in step 1 . Use <URL> to remove the track numbers added to the name . As far as I can tell this is the easiest way to accomplish that . Of course you could also write your own AppleScript which does it in one step . And do n't forget to create a backup , just in case .
According to <URL> ... Also , to turn on/off shadow : And to change file type : You 'll want to to make the commands take effect .
First you select the folder where your custom background images are in the left section , then you just select and choose in the dropdown .
Depending what version of SEDarwin you are looking for <URL> is a website that might help you . SEDarwin Downloads If satisfied with the answer to mark it as completed do the above :) :
Did you try the activity monitor thats built in to OS X ? Use spot light to find/open activity monitor and click on the network button near the bottom and it will display the data sent and received since the last restart .
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
That 's because you downloaded some app using that old ID . When the app downloaded using that ID tries to update , it asks for the password of that ID .
If you take a full backup of your iPhone ( right click on it in iTunes and choose Back Up ) and then restore it to a new phone , all data will be preserved , including apps ' data : iTunes will back up the following information Contacts * and Contact Favorites ( regularly sync contacts to a computer or cloud service such as iCloud to back them up ) . App Store Application data including in-app purchases ( except the Application itself , its tmp and Caches folder ) . Application settings , preferences , and data , including documents . From iTunes : <URL> .
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
You can use the Automator workflows . Choosing PDF on the left and then dragging the action " Set PDF metadata " ( or something similar , my version is in Italian ) on the right part of the Automator window you can put author , title and whatever in one or multiple PDF files . Issues and workarounds : if you update the metadata directly on your PDFs in the iBooks folder it will not update iBooks , so you wo n't see any change . I suggest to copy your PDFs on you desktop , erase the PDFs from iBooks , use Automator to add the metadata and then re-import ( drag and drop is useful here ) the books in your iBooks . I have just finished updating my files , you ca n't go wrong ;)
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
end question
start question
Is there a Mac screen capture tool that will export to animated gif ?
LICEcap is free ( GPL ) , works on MacOSX , and capture animated GIF directly . <URL> It 's never too late ;-)
Try <URL> . It 's supposed to be significantly faster than iTerm , but since I 've never used the first version , I ca n't say for myself . I have no complaints about it , that 's for sure .
In addition to Applescript , Automator allows you to create Folder Actions as well , at least in 10.6 . ( This should have been a comment on Philip 's post , but I do n't quite have enough rep for that yet . )
<URL> seems to provide the best predictions for updates . They use the average timescale for updates to provide a guess as to whether an update will come soon . They also include prominent rumours towards updates .
Try <URL> . I replaced the built-in apps switcher with this utility which lets me to view full screen windows including a feature to search active windows by title .
Apple advises first trying : Hold down the Power button for 10 seconds . If that does n't help , do a Power Manager ( SMC ) reset . No problem . See this Apple support page for directions for specific Intel machines : <URL>
If you 're looking for something that shows more than GeekTool with iCalBuddy , then the following apps may help : <URL> ( currently a free app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) See more at <URL>
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
Already asked at <URL> ( Credits to the OP ) . I post the answer here again - slightly modified : There is no version of VMware Player for OS X. Instead , VMware sells a Mac version of their product called <URL> . You may use it as trial version 30 days for free If you do n't want to purchase VMware Fusion , you can : Use Boot Camp to some other OS . The OS itself should run fine . Use Boot Camp and run vmplayer from the other OS . ( Untested since I do not have a OS/X host ) Use <URL> . VirtualBox can use virtual hard disks in VMware 's VMDK format ( <URL> ) .
You might take a look at VirtualBox which includes a GNU GPL version as well . It offers limited/experimental capabilities to run virtualized OS X VMs , but I think Apple generally forbids virtualizing OS X via their licensing/usage terms .
There are various mechanisms in Mac OS X to do scheduled tasks . They take a little bit of effort to configure , but <URL> explains it and has links to more info . The ' at ' service , which was a bit easier to use , is deprecated as it wastes battery .
The current version ( iTunes 10 ) will run on a PowerPC machine but it has some small limitations ( primarily it can not play High Definition video from the iTunes Store ) System Requirements : Mac computer with an Intel , PowerPC G5 or G4 processor Intel , PowerPC G5 or 1.0 GHz PowerPC G4 or faster processor is required to play Standard Definition video from the iTunes Store 2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo or faster processor is required to play HD video , an iTunes LP , or iTunes Extras from the iTunes Store Mac OS X version 10.5 or later <URL> ( iTunes Download Page )
<URL> seems to be quite nice . It is available at the App Store . iUnarchive can be used to preview and extract files from archives . Instead of cluttering the disk with files , you can preview and open files directly from within iUnarchive . Only files selected for preview and extracted files are actually uncompressed . Supported archives include zip , rar , 7-zip , tar , gzip , bz2/BZip2 , LhA and StuffIt , including password protection for zip , 7-zip , rar and multi part rar . Edit : Not sure if you looked for a free application . It costs 4 Euro now ( I think it was free before ) .
<URL> is widely recognised as a quality free alternative to Photoshop in many regards . ... but it 's not considered to be particularly successful in it 's approach to embracing Mac OS X application design ;) If you want something that is n't necessarily free but is at least inexpensive , then there are a number of other programs including <URL> and <URL> available in the Mac App Store . You could always try the cut down <URL> . For a good roundup , see this wonderful blog post from the Ask Different Community Blog for more info : <URL>
I 'd say there are basically three things that impact the file size of a GIF . The number of colors in the GIF -- The more colors there are in a GIF , the higher the file size . The dimensions of the GIF -- Tumblr requires the width to be less than 500px , so at least start there . I think around 450px is a great size . However , do n't forget you can use the crop feature to just highlight the action . The number of frames -- The number of frames you can use is highly dependent on the above two points . The three items above mirror <URL> and you can use the GifBrewery preferences to help reduce the colors by processing it lightly or using dithering algorithms :
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
Right-click it , go to the Open With menu , and choose Safari ( or your other favorite Web browser ) . It should open quickly , and will play the animation . No internet connection is required if you have a local copy of the image .
Depending on your technical inclination , you might want to try <URL> , or install something like <URL> .
iOS 4.0 supports a very rapid secure erase called " Data Protection " . If you upgrade from 3.0 you need to do a restore to set the stage for hardware encryption of all the data . If your device is n't capable of hardware encryption ( often called secure data at rest ) , then you can use the Erase all content and settings function . This <URL> has been around since iPhone OS 2.0 As this does n't work the same way on all iOS devices , do read <URL> before you depend on this to clear data securely . Once you are through erasing the device , you might want to connect it to a clean iTunes library and restore the device and set it up as new . Making a new account on your Mac or PC is an easy way to have a library with no account , no songs , and no apps just to be sure the device has a clean ( and easily verifiable ) start to it 's new life .
end question
start question
What is the resolution of the Apple Thunderbolt Display 's built-in camera ?
4:3 or 16:10 or 16:9 is aspect ratio . As for maximum resolution , open Quicktime to do a video recording thru the camera and set the quality to maximum . You do n't have to hit record , just do ⌘ + i for the movie inspector and you will see the recording resolution there . The camera will record at the highest possible resolution it can .
Nothing shipping immediately , however Sonnet did announce a <URL> that you could pair with a Firewire ExpressCard to give yourself some Firewire capabilities . Their site claims it will start to ship by December 14 , 2011 . At one point a direct Thunderbolt to Firewire adapter was announced , but I ca n't find any concrete info on it , so I would n't count on it appearing any time soon . Overall Thunderbolt support from anyone other than Apple has been pretty slow to take off . There have been some suggestions that Intel was slow releasing final specs for manufacturers and/or getting production hardware out the door . I 've also read that some manufacturers may be waiting for the 2nd generation of cheaper Thunderbolt chips to ship sometime in 2012 . Lots of promise in the technology , and I think it will take off sooner or later , but it 's still in the early stages unfortunately .
The power button only powers ON/OFF the keyboard , it does n't power off the computer . To power off your computer using the keyboard , you might want to use any of the following : Reference : ⌘ ( Command key ) - On some Apple keyboards , this key also has an Apple logo ( ) ⌃ ( Control key ) ⌥ ( Option key ) - " Alt " may also appear on this key ⏏ ( Eject ) ⇧ ( Shift ) ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Show shutdown dialog ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Put the computer to sleep ⌃ Control + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer . ⌃ Control + ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer . ⇧ Shift + ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Sleep the display , but not the computer . ( thanks to <URL> )
For the reference : Length : 21.3 CM Width : 14.7 CM Height : 3.3 CM Gross Weight : 0.5 KG
Sorry , no . The resolution of the display panel itself is only 1280x800 , so there is no way to display more without physically replacing the panel .
Go to <URL> and set the preferred language for your account . iCloud calendar invitations will use that language .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
There is a change log available , you can find it <URL> . This is what it says about siri : Siri Manually control when Siri listens by holding down the home button while you speak and releasing it when you 're done as an alternative to letting Siri automatically notice when you stop talking New , more natural sounding male and female voices for Mandarin Chinese , UK English , Australian English , and Japanese And the change log you mentioned is n't updated because there was no need for it , I verified on my iPhone running iOS 7.1 and there are no new languages in addition to the list you posted . On the developer portal there is another change log <URL> that shows all changes in different versions . It is a lot more technical than the " consumer log " .
Nope , there is no way to do it . I think that 's really stupid . Though I remember being able to do that in iBooks when it was first released , before iOS had a built in dictionary .
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
No , not directly . You can buy any number of HDMI capture hardware that connect via thunderbolt or FireWire and use a thunderbolt FireWire adapter .
Further updates : Update 10:24 AM : <URL> has even more on the issue : " The Mac Pro met the previous standards prior to the amendment 1 addition . Obviously it 's a very safe and very reliable product , " added the company . At issue are the large fans within the Mac Pro . Since they are unprotected , it would be possible to touch the fan blades . " The new requirements necessitate fan guards and some increased protection on the ports on the electrical system , " explained Apple .
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
The iTerm color change of Tab labels indicates activity . It can be turned of in : Preferences > Appearance > Color tab labels on activity The help file explains this " Color tab labels on activity " appearance preference as follows : If selected , tab labels become purple when a non-selected tab has new output , and red when a non-selected tab has output you have n't seen but that is not very recent .
No , the iPhone 4S has an 8mp camera . The prior iPhone 4 had a 5mp camera though . But , yes , the older iPad had a much worse camera - less than 1mp . This would seem to show it 's from the iPhone 4 : <URL> Megapixels are n't everything - but the new iPad certainly has the best camera in an iPad so far . The front facing camera is n't that great though , even with the rear one hugely improved .
It appears to be the case that Apple will replace the top case assembly if you want to replace your battery . As first reported by Treehugger , which received a copy of an Apple internal service document for the " Mid-2012 " 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro , Apple informs its own service personnel that " batteries must be replaced with the top case assembly " and that " the battery alone is not a replaceable part . " EveryMac.com also has been provided with copies of the internal service documents for subsequent 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro models and although there are internal differences , the battery design effectively is the same . Additionally , Apple warns its own technicians that " batteries should not be separated from the top case assembly for any reason , " as attempting to do so could puncture the battery and lead to fire or injury . Do not attempt to pry the battery apart from the top case . Source : <URL> According to <URL> , it will cost local repair shops around $ 500 to source the top case assembly to replace the battery .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
It 's located in the Resources folder inside Mail.app . Assuming you 've left Mail.app in its default installed location , the path is :
The free <URL> can do this : You can set up complex actions to be triggered by any of the buttons being either pressed or held .
end question
start question
If I were to set/reset the root account password on osx 10.8 , will I be increasing or decreasing the security of my system ?
Enabling the root user decreases security . Apple turns it off by default which means that someone trying to perform a remote log in both has to guess an admin user name and the password . It 's not a huge decrease in security , since all admin users can become root knowing an admin password , but by enabling root , you have either doubled the exposure ( the first account on a Mac has to be an Admin account and the root doubles the exposure ) or if you have several Admin accounts , it increases the number by one . Since it only takes one password to be guessed or " stolen " - having fewer openings is a more secure stance from a numbers and chance standpoint .
No ( for iOS 6 and earlier ) - erasing an iOS device means you will never hear from it again . No messages , no tracking , no find my device since at that point . Even if " your device " checks back in with Apple , it is no longer associated with your account . This is covered by Apple here in this article : <URL> After you erase all the information on an iOS device , you wo n't be able to use Find My iPhone to locate it or send it a message . Someone can enter a new ( or your account ) back into that device and only then will it resume checking in with the new account/password combination to be tracked . The only way you might get a notification is if you first send the locate message and then the erase message and both remain queued in the proper order . Since the device was offline when you sent the two commands ( otherwise you would have located the device if it were online ) , the device could later check in and it is conceivable you will get the locate notification delivered with enough time to respond before the erase command gets sent and acted upon . Apple changed this in iOS 7 where activation lock and an enhanced lost mode can erase the device except for the tracking and registration . This brings the erase benefits without losing control of the device .
About the graphics of the MBP The Macbook Pro 13 '' uses integrated Intel HD 3000 graphics . But Intel HD 3000 graphics are used in different processors . The performance varies depending on whether it 's a mobile or desktop CPU . You need to read benchmarks with caution : ULV processors core ix-2xx7 ( base freq . 350MHz , turbo 900-1000MHz ) ( Macbook Air ) LV processors core ix-2xx5 ( base freq . 500MHz , turbo 1000MHz ) standard dual and quad-core ix-2xx0 ( base freq . 650MHz , turbo 1100-1200MHz ) ( Macbook Pros ) desktop K processors ( base freq . 850 , turbo 1100-1350MHz ) Gaming Performance On <URL> I 've looked up some statistics . They keep benchmarks on how different games perform . I find these real world tests quite useful . If you follow the link , you can click on the single fps results to see each system configuration . Conclusion You should have a minimum of 24-30 fps to enjoy playing . Considering this , I 'll say that playing those games on a MBP 13 '' of 2011 will possibly work , but not result in the maximum fun :) .
With an Application such as <URL> navigate to where you 'll find a file called which contains the following : The DCIMLastFileNumber parameter is quite self explanatory . Set the number at which you want the counter to start at and restart the iPhone to apply the changes .
The only way I know how is to modify the System 's " User Template " . Here 's the steps I used to test on Lion . Use a current account to specify the desktop wallpaper you want . ( If you use " Solid Colors " there 's a button in the lower right to pick a custom color . Copy the current account 's com.apple.desktop.plist file to the user template :
You can set the release date through <URL> . The <URL> in the iOS Developer Documentation has a page titled Managing Your App in iTunes Connect , where the section <URL> states : Use iTunes Connect to set a date when the app is available on the store . For example , you can choose a date that immediately releases the app to the store after it 's approved , or you can set a later date . Using a later availability date allows you to arrange other marketing activities around the launch of your app . Sign in to <URL> . Select Manage Your Apps . Select your app in the Recent Activity section . Click Rights and Pricing . Choose a date from the Availability Date pop-up menus . Optionally , edit the other fields in this form . Click Save . Changes you make to Rights and Pricing go live immediately ( expect 24 hours for a full refresh of the changes on the store ) . Read the <URL> for more information on managing your app on the App Store .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
I can confirm what Nathan G. reported . I have a computer with Windows , and when I plug my iPod on that computer , it says me it is already synchronized with an iTune library ; it asks me if I want to synchronize it with the library present on Windows , warning me that the content of the iPod will be deleted , if I decide to do so . I did n't select Manually Manage Music in both the computers .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
This is what the <URL> says : Your Apple ID can have up to 10 devices and computers ( combined ) associated with it . Each computer must also be authorized using the same Apple ID . Once a device or computer is associated with your Apple ID , you can not associate that device or computer with another Apple ID for 90 days . You can view which devices or computers are currently associated , remove unused devices or computers , and see how long before they can be associated with a different Apple ID from the Account Information page in iTunes on your computer . Last Modified : November 14 , 2011
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
Any user on your machine would be able to read the files . People on the local network can only read from the places you have set up in Sharing preferences ( under file sharing ) .
Resetting the PRAM works the same way it always did . This is a function of the hardware - not the OS . What makes you think it does n't work anymore ? ( tested on Macbook , Mac Mini ) .
I just tested this with iPhone 3GS iOS 5.1 and the alarm stopped after exactly 15 minutes .
After some research i found <URL> , which perfectly detailed explains how to get this hidden setting : Open the system preferences Hold down the command and option keys while clicking the display icon Next locate the screen adjustments on the external monitor and you will notice now there is an option called " Rotation " . Choose 90 Degrees and now your monitor is in portrait mode . Thanks roadzy and <URL> !
On iOS 7 and a newer version of Find My Phone/iCloud , the battery level is reported so you can know approximately how much longer the tracking might be active without a recharge . When this question was asked , the battery level was not shown so the answer then was no . Either way , once your iPhone runs out of power , it will shut itself off . There is residual power left in the phone to run the screen and respond to buttons for a while , but once that last remaining power drains , eventually the voltage in the battery is not sufficient to run even the button sensing part of the device . Plugging it into power will re-start your phone and once it establishes a network connection , find my phone will resume . In your case - if Find My Phone says your device is not found - you ca n't really tell if it was turned off by intention or automatically or has lost network connectivity ( by having a SIM removed or just being out of range ) .
Your iPhone will not spoil if placed on your laptop . Unless it is so hot that your iPhone warns you about its temperature . Concerning the electronic/magnetic stuff , your laptop will not give out that much amount of stuff to spoil the iPhone , unless your laptop is a microwave .
Sadly , you 've passed the point where you get to save your work . Luckily , iMovie periodically saves the application database / library so you are unlikely to lose everything if you decide to shut down the Mac or force quit the application . Once you regain control of the application ( you already know you ca n't do anything with it stuck in a state where it 's no longer responding to messages , input - a.k.a spinning wheel of death ) you can see if the changes you made are missing . If they are , a call to apple support might be needed to restore the backup copies of the library it has made internally since Apple does n't document how to restore a previous iMovie library publicly . Going forward , you can set a timer and periodically save/quit iMovie and then back up the files . Time Machine allows you to make local snapshots if you do n't have your backup volume connected . Then to make a point in time snapshot of all the files , quit iMovie and then run in terminal : That saves a neat point in time version of all your files that you can then recover later using the Time Machine interface .
This problem come from the order in which 2 important operations are scheduled to read a sensitive piece of information which is a password : lock exclusive access to the keyboard read characters typed at the keyboard Apparently these 2 operations are scheduled the wrong way round : read characters typed at the keyboard lock exclusive access to the keyboard The part of the kernel in charge of reading the keyboard is waken up before locking the keyboard . This is fully understandable when you want to be able to wake the system on any keyboard entry . But in such a case , a mechanism should clearly indicate to the user when the keyboard is safe to type a serious password and not wake up noise . This wrong scheduling was apparently a small problem and not noticed by many users since the 2 operations are anyway scheduled in a small window of events ( it 's a question of one or 2 seconds here ) . This small window of time to schedule these 2 operations is larger if you are just waking up your disk , or if your disk is n't fast enough for your fingers , or if you have too fast fingers . This is the reason why some people thought that this problem was created by hard disk drive ( HDD ) and suppressed by solid state drive ( SSD ) . In fact the problem is n't suppressed by an SSD , it is just more difficult to exhibit . You should consider this as a fundamental bug in password reading which is hidden when using a fast enough disk or slow motion fingers .
You do n't . ( not without jail breaking iOS ) More sadly , we 've gone from the situation on iOS 4 - > 5 - > 6 - > iOS 7 and still can not choose what certificates are trusted by the OS . This is either a bug in the iPhone configuration utility or an unimplimented feature . If you care , do reach out to apple to ask for this . <URL> or <URL> Unless you are comfortable writing a technically correct bug , the feedback link is a better avenue . Calling AppleCare or asking for this at the genius bar might also be worthwhile .
end question
start question
Why is n't iPhoto '11 showing an event present in the library ?
Seems like the problem only was that I had managed to sort the events " manually " ( View > Sort Events > Manually ) which hid the newly created events in-between my rather large amount of existing events . Sorting by date ( View > Sort Events > By Date + Descending ) shows my new events first in the list as they should .
After exploring the imported folder , I noticed an alias file . This linked to a folder , which contained an additional 20GB of images . That , apparently was the boogyman . Tip if you experience an similar situation : Explore the folder and check for links to other folders , hidden files or iPhoto libraries . There may be files/folders excluded from calculation of folder size , but are added in the iPhoto library . This is slightly painful and shameful , but this is the truth . .
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
Seems like the problem only was that I had managed to sort the events " manually " ( View > Sort Events > Manually ) which hid the newly created events in-between my rather large amount of existing events . Sorting by date ( View > Sort Events > By Date + Descending ) shows my new events first in the list as they should .
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
Option + Tab should n't be assigned to switching windows by default . You could 've reassigned it in the Keyboard preferences : It could also be handled by some third party app like Witch , LiteSwitch X , or Keyboard Maestro on the MacBook Pro .
The weight of data ( in gigs ) does n't really matter with iPhoto . That 's just file storage . If you have a large HD with plenty of free space ( 30 % + and never less than 10 % ) , it really does n't matter . iPhoto used to be rated for 250,000 items in the library , but in the most recent update it has the same format as Aperture , and that is effectively unlimited . As to how well iPhoto scales : pretty well . I have a 40k plus library that opens in a couple of seconds . I 've worked on Libraries in excess of 100k items and while longer to launch ( one was almost a minute ) it worked fine once open . You can easily have multiple libraries : Hold down Option while launching iPhoto , and from the resulting menu select Create Library . Bear in mind that only one can be opened / searched / accessed at a time . Again , unless you 're getting very large indeed , I would avoid them . Upgrading to Aperture is simple . Install it . Open the Library . Done .
This is a widely-reported bug in some App Store installers . It sees the process and displays this error , even though that process is not controlled by the user . You can open Activity Monitor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) , find the process and kill it with the Quit Process button in the top-left corner . You can also instead open Terminal ( also in / Applications/Utilities ) , enter the following line and press enter to kill it .
<URL> CleanMyMac 2 has an <URL> . It will scan your library and give you the ability to delete photos that have been cropped , resized , rotated , or otherwise edited . By default , it will delete the photos that have been rotated and/or with fixed Red-Eye , however you can also choose to delete the originals of any photos that have been edited in any way . I have used this multiple times , and it 's worked great , although it 's worth noting that in the Rebuilding Library stage , it might appear that it 's crashed , but it 's still going - it does take a very long time !
Well , two trips to the genius bar could n't solve it ( " you need to start a new library from scratch and retag your 15,000 photos " - WHAT ?!?! ) , but I dug around and experimented and finally came up with the answer : iTunes wo n't sync pictures without up-to-date previews ; so , if they stop auto-generating for some reason , you have to force it to update previews for the pictures that are n't syncing . You may want to go to iTunes and select " Sync all Photos " and note the number of photos that appears in the upper right of the window , so you can make sure that it 's higher after this process . Go to Aperture and select " Photos " up near the top of your library , in order to select your whole library of pics . In the " Photos " menu up top , you should see " update previews for library " . ( If you 're not seeing it , you probably skipped step 2 , or selected an individual photo , in which case , it will be replaced with " update preview " . You want to do it for everything , so be sure to highlight " photos " first . That may take some time , depending how many you were missing , but once it 's done , go back to iPhoto , and uncheck " sync all photos " and then recheck it . That should force it to recount the pics , and you should now see a number that matches your library ( less any in a format that iTunes ca n't handle . )
It 's a new feature in ios 5 called " region Monitoring " The reason it 's active even if the app is closed is that this feature runs in iOS 5 core and notifies all apps that are registered when they have entered or left a specific geo-fence . Reminders does that when you use a location based reminder . Although the location icon appears at all time . This actually has very minimal impact on the battery due to apple really optimizing this feature by using cell and wifi mostly .
On your Mac , enable photo sharing in iTunes . Do n't know why you have to use iTunes - I guess ATV does n't know how to read the iPhoto library directly . I 'm not in front of my Mac , but you can Google the photo sharing menu command if it 's not obvious . On the ATV3 , go to the Computer menu/icon , click on your computer name if needed , then go to Photos . Your shared albums should be in there . From the main Settings menu/icon , you should be able to select one of your albums to use as the slide show . That said , it 's easier to use Photo Stream ! Let me know if you need help with that .
There are Vocal Effects in Garageband . Open Garageband and create a voice project : Then go to the Info pane in the bottom right hand corner : Under Real Instrument > Vocals , you will find all the effects you were looking for .
If you uncheck " Live updating " in the smart playlist edit screen you will be able to delete tracks from the smart playlist . However the playlist wo n't repopulate until you right-click the playlist and select " Update Smart Playlist " . Interestingly that command does n't do anything unless the tracks have been deleted .
<URL> . But , if you 're dead set on an IDE , the standard for open source , free IDEs is <URL> . For C and C++ development , <URL> which gives you all of its heavyweight IDE-type things for your C and C++ code : introspection , code completion , refactoring tools , syntax highlighting , debugger integration and so on . It 's been around a long time now and is both stable and robust . The CDT Project provides a fully functional C and C++ Integrated Development Environment based on the Eclipse platform . Features include : support for project creation and managed build for various toolchains , standard make build , source navigation , various source knowledge tools , such as type hierarchy , call graph , include browser , macro definition browser , code editor with syntax highlighting , folding and hyperlink navigation , source code refactoring and code generation , visual debugging tools , including memory , registers , and disassembly viewers .
I 've known it happen if memory was being paged heavily , or if a drive was particularly full . F5 has no effect on a Mac , btw , it 's a Windows command . The only real equivalent - to a system that really ought to never need to be refreshed under normal circumstances - is to switch view style ... ... from list to column then back again , for instance ... Cmd ⌘ 3 then Cmd ⌘ 2
Open the old library directly by holding down the [ option ] key while starting iPhoto . iPhoto will then allow you to browse to the library location ( use the " Other Library " button ) and should update it automatically to iPhoto '11 format . You may want to back it up first Close iPhoto and restart holding [ option ] once again , make sure the active library is your current ( new ) one . Try reimporting the old library now . It might still be greyed out in the file picker but double click it anyway , it should import .
Turn your iPhone sideways and in the upper left hand corner hit the down arrow . Then select " Hidden Photos " . This will show you a list of the photos you 've hidden . Tap one , hit edit , and tap the " X " again to unhide it .
There 's no way to do that , alas . <URL> shows an AppleScript that can make playlists from all complete albums , but if you have a lot of albums , it might be overwhelming .
iPhoto stores its Library in your User-Directory . The Path : ~ / Pictures / Right-Click on the Package , and then select " Show Package Contnet " to view your pictures ! Or , right-Click on a picture in iPhoto , and select " Show in Finder "
end question
start question
Alter cmd-tab behaviour on OSX to group Parallels applications ?
You must deselect the " Share Windows applications with Mac " option in the Applications pane of your VM 's configuration .
<URL> From their <URL> : MacDeveloper helps companies and individual software developers alike improve the quality of their products by providing a platform to have their applications properly tested from a well informed , and energetic Beta Pool .
Short answer is no . Cocoa is not designed as a remote procedure call ( RPC ) - esque protocol , while X is . You can not tunnel the interfaces of Cocoa applications like you know it from X11 natively , only using protocols like VNC that transfer the actual bitmap rather than the rendering instructions . On the other hand , you are able to use remotely running X applications via SSH .
The Recovery HD ( which is what holding down Option would enable you to access ) did n't come into being until Lion . You should go to the App Store , sign out of the previous owner 's Apple ID , sign in with your own , download and install Yosemite , and then you 'll have the Recovery partition from which you can do a wipe/fresh install .
the shortcut is meant to go to settings of what ever program is running in the foreground ( it will be the program in the upper left corner of your screen ) . However you can customize your shortcut settings in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard shortcuts
You must deselect the " Share Windows applications with Mac " option in the Applications pane of your VM 's configuration .
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
You can easily install by typing the following : To be able to install it , you need <URL> installed and <URL> . To install type : To enable type :
Under the account settings , there is a list of items that run on start up , per user . Place a shortcut to the Windows 7 VM in there , that should do the trick .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
You may want to run Software Update . It could be that you 're missing a SMC update , which addresses freezing at ( continuous ) high CPU loads : <URL> Or this EFI update : <URL>
This is n't directly a feature of Remote.app but of iTunes on the desktop , Remote.app just gives an UI for this . At this time , only iTunes running on Mac/Windows or other desktop apps like <URL> are able to distribute to multiple speakers at once .
On Mac , Shift + left click open a link on webpage in a new window .
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
Or change the shortcut to something else in System Preferences :
Stub applications are smaller apps that do work for larger , more complex apps . For example , an app can request information from a stub app concurrently with a main process that the original app is running . Then , the stub app can return information back to the main process that initiated the stub binary .
According to <URL> , and were removed when Apple released OS X for Intel processors . The ( excellent ) article also explains how to reenable the memory devices , namely using the kernel boot argument . To set it , open Terminal , type : and reboot . The article was written in May 2006 , but the Mavericks 10.9.2 kernel still supports the option . After a reboot I saw these two devices : If your Mac wo n't boot or you have any issues , reset the NVRAM by pressing ⌘ optionPR and holding the keys down until you hear the startup sound for the second time , as explained in " Resetting NVRAM / PRAM " in <URL> . If you wish to reset the argument , type and check that does not print any results .
Once you 've installed it ( I used Macports ) your file should look like this , at a minimum : The command opens the default GUI application for whatever it 's passed . In this case it 's passed a http : / / URL so it opens it in the default browser .
Parallels is great if you do n't need full speed ; it 's not great for gaming , but it 's OK at a push . I 'd go with Boot Camp for gaming , Parallels for less-intensive work . You can use your Boot Camp drive in Parallels too , for times you just need quick access to Windows , without needing the full-speed setup . The only proviso is that you must shut it down in Parallels each time , rather than Suspend it , or it messes up the boot partition . You can set your prefs in Parallels to do this automatically , so you do n't forget . From comments ... Windows needs to be purchased separately , for either solution , Boot Camp or Parallels . This excerpt from Parallels FAQ Pre-Sales Questions - I want to buy Parallels and need to know ... Does Windows come pre-installed with Parallels Desktop for Mac ? Windows is not included with your purchase of Parallels Desktop 10 for Mac . Windows can be purchased directly from Microsoft or many retail stores . For Windows 8 or 8.1 , you can use either the Full Product purchased at retail , or you can purchase the Windows 8 or 8.1 OEM System Builder version ( lower price ) which has some limitations . Please visit <URL> for additional information .
Yes , it is possible , however the only way I know of doing it also hides the dock icon . you must modify the file named ' Info.plist ' inside the Application 's package ( i.e. Sherlock.app / Contents/Info . plist ) . Open this file in your favorite text editor and add the following section ( if it 's already present simply change the 0 to a 1 in the string tag : <URL> In OS X 10.8 + , use this instead ( note LS instead of NS ) :
end question
start question
Can I install OSX on a cracked screen macbook using target disk mode ?
Overall , there are generally not huge problems using another mac to install the OS on to a target mode drive ( same as installing to an external drive ) . The install will work fine and an OS will be present on the drive , but the areas where this will fail are : Using a restore DVD on a mac that is a different model ( retail OS discs have all drivers for macs requiring a lower build number than the retail disk - restore media have a very specific model 's drivers only ) If the <URL> , the mac may or may not boot properly - and some drivers needed for the mac that eventually runs the OS might not get installed . If the installer selects the wrong drivers due to the machine running the install being different than the mac that eventually runs the OS - you may have some problems . Basically , when a new hardware model is released ( new thunderbolt , new logic board design , new battery technology in a portable ) - that change is introduced into a separate OS build . I have never seen a public listing of these specifics broken down by model number , but over time these special builds generally get merged into the " main " OS . Since retail OS DVD change versions maybe once or twice a year , there is a window of time where installing the OS from a machine of type A and running that OS on a machine of type B will have issues due to needed drivers being missing from the retail OS DVD . This chance is much larger if you are using the newest macs and installing across product lines ( MacPro to Air / iMac to MacBook ) . In practice , the core OS usually works and you can boot the mac and most of the hardware will work . Also , usually you can download the latest combo update and hope that it pushes updated drivers when it is run , but there is no guarantee that installing the OS on one mac will work for all other macs across the board . People that run large installations and clone one image on to dozens or hundreds of different macs can attest to the ways this breaks certain hardware from time to time . Recently , iMacs would n't show a wifi card or produce sound when running an OS installed from anything but those new iMacs . For older hardware - doing the install and running the OS - the chance of total success is very high . Stack the odds in your favor by ensuring the <URL> higher than the minimum build for the model you have . For 100 % success , just make sure the mac doing the install is the same as the mac running the OS and use the DVD that came with the mac .
You need to set the right permissions . Go into Terminal and enter the following commands : You might need to restart the computer to take effect . You also need to be admin ( a sudoer ) to perform these commands I should mention that you need to have copied from the . dmg file for Wireshark into the folder as described in the ' Read me first ' document . is a file located in the Utilities folder in the . dmg
Download xcode_3 .2.6 _ and_ios_sdk_4 .3 . dmg ( note - you need a developer account to access this software . I have instead linked to an open-to-the-public <URL> Mount the . dmg file Inside the disk image there is an invisible " Packages " folder . To open it select " Go to folder ... " command from Finder menu bar and digit the path " / Volumes/Xcode and iOS SDK/Packages / " Now double-click " iPhoneSimulatorSDK4_2 . pkg " Click into the destination disk and a button " Select folder ... " will be revealed Click the above button and select your " Developer " folder Install the package , and Restart Xcode . This will install the Simulator 4.2 SDK ( both iPad and iPhone ) inside the folder " / Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator . platform/Developer/SDKs / " Now inside XCode 4.2 you can select this simulator from the menu . Bye .
You can rotate your MacBook Air screen using the OS X system preferences . What you need to do is : Launch System Preferences ( first quit it if it 's already open ) Hold down Command Option and click on " Display " Look for ' Rotation ' on the right side of the Display window and take your pick If System Preferences is already open then holding down Command + Option does n't seem to make the Rotatation menu appear . If you run into that , just quit out of System Prefs and relaunch it . ( found on <URL> and found here on <URL> ) EDIT : Cave ! I had serous troubles on my MacBook Pro retina . Do NOT try this method described above in Yosemite ( and properbly newer systems as well ) Read this : I recently tried this trick again to rotate my screen and got stuck in a nasty situation . My screen is inverted and my ' Display ' menu in System Preferences will not open , when trying to open the ' Display ' preference pane it gives me the following error : " Preferences Error Could not load Displays preference pane . " I have tried the following things to fix it , non of these work : Removed and , and rebooted . Logged in as another user or as guest user . repair permissions , gives the following warning : User differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Group differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' Re-installed ' OS X - Mavericks over my current system ' Manually removed the Display preference pane from and installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' after that . Luckely I have an external display that does not go ' Australian ' on me , but this is quite nasty . I am now preparing for a clean install of my system as I am out of further ideas . EDIT 2 : - Temp fix/hack . This will not fix the broken ' Displays ' preference pane , but it will help you to leave ' Down Under ' and zero out gravity . Rotate your screen using a third party app : ' <URL> ' <URL> EDIT 3 : Complete clean reinstall of the system ' fixed ' the issue . I have only restored the non-admin users via TimeMachine . Error message :
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
Yes , however there are two versions of the MacBook battery , the Energy Star and the non-Energy Star that are incompatible with each other . So as long the pins look the same in his laptop you should be fine Check out this post on super user for more details on the different pins of the Energy Star and non-Enery Star connections for the battery . <URL>
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
If you have an old AppleTV it may be <URL> , but to me it seems a bit like a hack . And I would n't be at all surprised if the license does n't allow it . Your Snow Leopard license is probably an upgrade license for Leopard ( Apple does n't sell hardware without OS , so they only sell upgrade licenses I think ) , and I doubt the Apple TV runs the default version of Leopard . If you can install Snow Leopard then do n't use updates , as the kernel needs to be replaced :)
Real FullScreen applications will normally run on the Primary Display and they will rarely allow you to configure that . Some applications , however , are running in a " false " full screen , and are just " maximized " applications on top of everything , including the dock and the MenuBar . Some of the latter can be moved by applications like SizeUp and similar ( note the usage of the word ' some ' ) . In order to change what your primary display is , you have to go to System Preferences - > Display and the click on the " Arrangement " Tab . And then you have to click and drag the white menubar to the display you want to make primary . Take a look at the attached picture . Remember you have to click on the white square representing the Menu Bar and drag it to the other . The consequences of doing that is that your Dock and your Menu Bar will be moved onto the other Display .
Apple 's <URL> ... enables you to create a recovery USB . While this recovery USB does not contain the installer image , it is able to install Mountain Lion ( see 3rd paragraph ) . You can download the official software from Apple <URL> . Note that you can create the recovery USB only if you have a partition on your Mac . You can verify this in the Terminal using : . The Recovery Disk Assistant requires just 1GB because is does not store an OS X installer image ( usually named ) . Instead it will download the latest version of Mountain Lion right before the installation - if the recovery USB has been created in Mountain Lion . You are still able to use the recovery USB without internet access if you just want to open Disk Utility from it for example .
I think you should be fine . I upgraded to Lion on a Mac Pro that has a RAID 0 . While the OS is installed to an SSD , not RAID , Lion still detected the RAID just fine . That 's obviously a different scenario than what you have , but as the software RAID is handled at a higher level than the OS , I think you should be fine . Obviously , have a backup ready to go just in case , but my guess is that your upgrade should go smoothly .
Bluetooth needs to be in advertising mode for Yosemite 's Handoff to work . To disable Handoff in Mac Yosemite : Select System Prefs > General and uncheck " Allow Handoff between this Mac and your iCloud devices " .
Ran into the same issue . Followed YouTube video of installation in order to figure out the following : Once the disc is booted , select Reinstall OS X . You will then reach the screen where you can not see the Continue button . Using your keyboard , press TAB followed by SPACE . You should then reach the User Agreement screen . Press TAB , TAB , TAB and SPACE . Click the Agree button which should be visible . Click the installation drive and press TAB , TAB and SPACE . This should get you to the point where Lion is installing .
The onscreen iPad keyboard offers no way to ( re ) orient your fingers to the home keys , which makes touch typing nearly impossible in my experience . However , with practice many iPad owners become skilled at using the onscreen keyboard well . If you absolutely need to touch type longer documents , you can <URL> with the iPad . I rarely carry the external keyboard when I 'm out and about , but if I plan to settle in to write I toss it in my bag and when traveling I keep one in my hotel room for evening writing marathons .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
You should be able to rotate images imported from a camera in iOS ' Photos , so the functionality is there . For some reason it 's not enabled for synced images or screenshots . Instead of using a computer you can rotate images with an app providing the functionality . I think Myles also means this approach . Some free apps capable of image rotation : <URL> <URL>
I have heard good things about the <URL> . It provides a mounting bracket for whatever hard drive or SSD you want to put in there . <URL> shows how to install it in a Mid-2010 MBP , which is close in design to the Unibody MacBook you have . Instructions according to the guy in the video : Remove the bottom panel Disconnect and remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth antenna . Disconnect optical drive and put the connector onto the Optibay Put your hard drive into the optibay Follow the steps in reverse to reassemble your computer . The dangerous parts are when you pop up the delicate connectors with , say , an iPod opening tool . So the Wi-Fi may not work afterwards , and you would be on your own since Apple does n't support modifications . But overall , it is n't so bad . It looks like an easy fix .
Yes - CCC copies by file and so will manage . This was my original setup and worked . It is now more complex as I now have more data on the source than can fit on the target , I manage this by choosing the files in CCC and deselecting ~ / Downloads / tmp etc. .
end question
start question
How to get the FileVault recovery key ?
You may be able to use <URL> to access FileVault 2 encrypted drives on Linux . OS X turns the password for the drive into a derived key by using <URL> . That derived key then unlocks the encrypted drive . I 'm not aware of a way to display the key .
Resetting the PRAM works the same way it always did . This is a function of the hardware - not the OS . What makes you think it does n't work anymore ? ( tested on Macbook , Mac Mini ) .
There is a <URL> which allows you to publish your books . <URL> .
There are two options here : You can simply select " Allow All " in your firewall , or simply turn it off . You can remove the apps from the list , delete the file for those apps , run them , and then add them to the list . The plist is responsible for a lot of behaviors and I 'm willing to bet either an upgrade to the OS or the app can cause the " link " to break . About files ... A plist is a special kind of text file that contains properties the application and other resources , typically the OS , use to retain and reuse information needed to run the application . is a file type and has many uses , typically storing user preferences , but , essentially , it is an XML file . You can look to see if there are any caches , which are typically files , for the applications in question in and . There is also one in but bad things can happen when mucking around in there , so just leave it alone . The system goes into those folders for a wide variety of reasons , and I usually clean out the first two folders I listed completely about once a month .
It sounds like <URL> to manually edit the user dictionary , but unfortunately it is n't anymore . Just a guess , but perhaps you can have it forget them the same way it learned them -- when it suggests the word , try tapping on the small [ x ] next to the suggestion . If you do this a few times it may " forget " the word . You can reset the dictionary entirely by going to Settings > General > Reset :
<URL> use the XTS-AES 128 encryption . As Finder 's contextual menu encryptation option and the Erase with the Encrypted format use Filevault 's system , the encryption is the same . Disk Utility 's , in the other hand , when creating an new image , lets you choose between a 128 or 256 bits AES Encryption . These two methods are , therefore , different . The latter just creates a folder which requires a password to be opened , while Filevault is a lot more complex . And for the Logical Partition , <URL> is explained in detail . How Does FileVault 2 Work ? Compared to the bare file system , or even FileVault 1 , FileVault 2 seems like magic . How does it work ? The first thing to know is that Apple has included a Logical Volume Manager ( LVM ) with OS X Lion . This is what FileVault 2 gets to ride on top of . Physical media still exists -- we really ca n't get away from that , as the data need to be stored somewhere . CoreStorage does n't really care what the media is , though : traditional spinning-plater drives , SSD , USB storage or even a disk image . Represented above in green , we have three volumes that reside on some physical disks . These three volumes are converted into CoreStorage volumes and imported into a Logical Volume Group ( LVG ) . This sets up a " pool " of storage . Volumes can be added to and removed from the pool after creation . A LVG is represented with a UUID . This LVG is then brought into a Logical Volume Family ( LVF ) . An LVF maintains properties about the volumes in a LVG and presents these Logical Volumes ( LV ) to the system . CoreStorage creates new device nodes for each LV . As shown in the visualization above , the LVs , in blue , have a device node ( disk1 , disk2 , disk3 ) . The ' key ' icon associated with the LVF shows that encryption is one of the properties maintained about the LVG . This is the layer at which the encryption key resides . When you " Turn On FileVault ... " , one of the steps converts your disk to a CoreStorage volume . Of course , when you " Turn On FileVault ... " , only your boot disk is encrypted . Naturally , this fits Apple 's 99 % case and is the right fit for the bulk of Mac users on the planet . That said , FileVault can not and will not encrypt any other drives you may have attached to your system . That 's up to you .
The answer was indeed to reset the NVRAM by holding cmd-alt-p-r during boot . Cheers :)
You might find that the time taken relates to the size of the volume to be converted ( not limited to the amount used ) . Personal estimates of duration may be difficult . Expect the most reliable estimates to be offered by System Preferences . If the system was only recently started , do n't expect an accurate estimate of time ; and do n't be surprised if the estimate rises occasionally . For more detail than is given by the progress bar in System Preferences : in Terminal you can run the following command , which will display a tree view of the CoreStorage world : Within the tree you 'll see sizes ; amounts converted . If a volume is heavily used during conversion , it might slightly extend the time taken to complete but for your 10 GB used I would not expect there to be any difference . Use the volume as you normally would until conversion completes .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
This is still possible in Mavericks . Have you looked under Terminal and then ticked " Use option as meta key " at the bottom ?
Ctrl-T is standard hotkey for file selection -- <URL> . As for switch/add/substract , just type shift-8 for * , shift - = for + and - for minus . All this works in MC out of the box .
The closest you 're going to get is to set Messages alerts to repeat 10 times by going into Settings → Notifications → Messages . There , swipe to the bottom to reveal the menu : <URL> This will cause Messages notifications to ring for 20 minutes after the initial one , or until you 've read/dismissed them . Next , make sure is disabled by going into Settings → Do Not Disturb and toggling both and to ( there are no VIP notifications in Messages yet ) . You could also assign a custom loud and obnoxious text tone to the family member in question that will make it more likely a message from them will wake you up , but that alert sound will trigger for all text messages they send you , even during the daytime . Coworkers who were on-call 24/7 also found it useful to turn on under the section of Settings → General → Accessibility . If you lay your iPhone face down at night it will flash brightly when you receive a notification , although this will be active at all times for all notifications , so you might need to disable this every morning and re-enable it at night . <URL> A note on Do Not Disturb : if you have a habit of using Do Not Disturb and occasionally forget to turn it back off , you can make sure it gets disabled at night by enabling for a 1-minute duration every evening , say , from 10:30 to 10:31 p.m. , or sometime before you go to bed .
Try pressing C when booting . It might help you get pass safe-boot . or you can try using a key remapping app . Resources : <URL> <URL> .
I actually asked a <URL> ( but more broad so this is n't a duplicate ) . I got this as an answer ( it works , I tested it ) : Write the below line in terminal : defaults write com.apple.Safari com.apple.Safari.ContentPageGroupIdentifier.WebKit2BackspaceKeyNavigationEnabled - bool YES Then restart Safari . Hope this helps !
I already use <URL> which does the trick but it has some annoying bugs and it 's only useful for russian-speaking users because UI is only in russian . That 's why I want to find an alternative . The main purpose of <URL> is to fixe words typed with wrong keyboard layout . For example : руддщ → hello ghbdtn → привет So it may be useful for somebody who uses russian a lot ( outsourcing managers , people who learn russian , etc ) .
The process to enable FileVault will read the entire 500 GB of data - whether the block is empty or full and encrypt it with the keys you set up as part of the process . So , the background IO will run the fastest if you do n't have other user level disk IO running . The encryption itself will take less than 10 % of one CPU on that powerful ( fast ) Mac - so you are really just going to see a sustained 60 to 80 MB/s re-write of the entire drive if you let the Mac sit idle . A Mac with a spinning hard drive would see between 20 to 30 MB/s so an Air or any Mac with solid state drives will be two to three times faster in this operation . So - from the time you start , I would estimate 2-3 hours if you are getting at least 70 MB/s for writing the encrypted data back to the disk . This process does run in the background and is n't really reversible once it starts , so you can kick it off and then track the progress with .
Apple allows widgets to be displayed on the desktop in order to allow the people developing the widgets to test them without using Dashboard . Your system must have had that capability turned on somehow and that widget set to run on your desktop . It 's very easy to get the widget off of your desktop , and make it so that no other widgets will accidentally be relocated . To get the widget off your desktop : click and hold on the widget , then press F12 to enter Dashboard . Once Dashboard is active , release the mouse from the widget . The widget is now docked in your Dashboard instead of on your desktop . You 'll probably have two copies of the widget in Dashboard now . You can get rid of one in the normal way ( press the plus button at the bottom left and click the on the widget ) . You can also just hold down the option key over the widget and the will appear . Now , to prevent other widgets from escaping Dashboard in the future : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Paste this in and press enter : If , on the other hand , you want to run some widgets on your desktop , you can run the above command with instead of . Then , activate Dashboard , click and hold on a widget , exit Dashboard , and release the widget .
end question
start question
Is there a totally ' clean ' full-screen mode web browser ?
Have you seen <URL> ? I 'm not sure if there is a way to hide the toolbar in Chrome , but the <URL> might be the last step you need for navigating using only the keyboard .
A quick look suggests that this feature does not exist in any PDF reader . One responder on this forum [ <URL> ] believes that there are no such readers . Most of the links in this Google search [ <URL> ] are requesting such a feature be implemented in some reader , any reader .
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
I found a project online which i think uses an old WEBKIT renderer . . <URL> gives old versions , but i do n't know which ones you will be able to run on your new machine . For myself , I 'm running 4.0.5 because of the reduced RAM usage .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
Tap and hold , you will get a popover until you let go with the full details . Same works with music in the ipod app .
Hopefully this should work regardless of OS version , but it 's been tested on 10.6.8 : Open Automator Choose to create a Folder Action Choose your photo folder as the folder to work on Chooses Utilities - > Run AppleScript and drag it into the panel on the right Paste the code below into the Run AppleScript panel Save the folder action and try it out ! end run Note : The script might have some unnecessary elements in it , but while trying to tweak it it often stopped working . Feel free to try on your own !
Installing cleanly gives you the advantage that you will know if an error is due to the " as-shipped " condition of the software before you add your data and applications to the mix . The installation of a new OS is the primary time when people notice corruption of a filesystem or other hardware type errors since a machine can often keep running well with some little errors . But relinking all the kernel extensions and drivers and knowing that your accessories and applications will all take to a major new OS is a lot of change . Spending a little extra time up front can help isolate issues if you have them . By running the migration later , you have more control over things and can also choose to hand migrate anything first that you do n't trust the tools to automate .
You could do a clean install youself after formatting the disk . You will end up with exact the same result after doing this . Why the format , you ask ? You wo n't have any Mountain Lion files on your system . Returning to the place you bought it from is as easy , you say ? Returning the device to the store does not make any difference except spending ( more ) time and probably pay gas for the car . If you let them do the update , they will just click the icon in the AppStore resulting in the same result as doing it yourself . ( This does not count for an official Apple Retail Store , but it does ( at least in my country ) for the premium resellers ) Official Apple Retail Store If you have an official Apple Store , it comes as free service to get the OS X re-installed . The only difference that would really help you out is getting a newer replacement from the store , with Mavericks pre-installed . I doubt they will replace it as the device is n't broken and can not be returned for RMA .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
As you know , per your question , the preferences in the Preview app only apply to documents when first opened . It seems that OS X has a built in default view for full screen documents . I tried a couple things ... I opened a PDF to Full Screen and set the view to Continuous to see if this would stick and that view would be chosen next time I went full screen . Not the case . I searched every preference file related to Preview ( also using 10.9.2 ) and found no setting even indirectly related to a view setting specifically when in full screen . I 'd say , doing what you want is either not possible at all or at best it 'd require getting into a preference setting somewhere you would n't want to poke around with . My guess would be it 's a setting inside Preview.app 's package contents . Fooling around in there can get hairy As an alternative to setting a new default , the keyboard shortcut to switch to Continuous view is : So you can just quickly hit that each time you go full screen and the view changes immediately . It 's not exactly what you wanted , but it 's a very fast alternative . Hope that helps !
Seems that 8.0.2 's update for iOS fixed the problem for me .
I use the following bookmark , which you can create as many as needed , to resize my safari window to a specific size : This moves the window to the far left , top and then makes the width 1250 pixels and makes the hight fill to the available ( limited by the dock hight , if not hidden ) . To use , bookmark any page and then edit the address with the code above . Every now and again , an update to safari will break this , and then it 'll work again after a subsequent update .
In addition to the answer of Diago , I got this from <URL> : What 's the catch ? There is n't one ! You get the exact same versions of the apps as if you paid full price ! The same support , update , and upgrade options are available to you , as well . So , yes ! Buying the spring bundle will give you a full valid version !
Have you seen <URL> ? I 'm not sure if there is a way to hide the toolbar in Chrome , but the <URL> might be the last step you need for navigating using only the keyboard .
Yes : System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts Select " Function Keys " and hit the plus sign . Select the app you want to have the function keys display for as default .
No , you ca n't . The only way to achieve some kind of manual ordering is disabling the " Automatically rearrange " option in the Mission Control prefpane , and switching all your apps to fullscreen in the correct order from left to right ( new spaces get added to the right ) . That said , you wo n't be able to move anything left of the first desktop space .
Install QT 7 from <URL> and open your movie with QT7 . Then open Preferences and select Fullscreen tab and click on your second display . Update : Movist is a great player . You can get it from here : <URL>
The new Web Inspector was made to be a bit closer to Xcode . There is no direct way to get the old one back , without reverting to other means . For example : running Lion in a VM ( to run an older Safari ) . Running a nightly build of WebKit - but this may only have the new inspector Using Chrome ( while still WebKit , it still uses something that seemed closer to me like the old inspector ) . So no , at this time , it does n't look like its possible to revert back to an ' older ' version of the inspector . The best bet would be to submit bugs at <URL> . If it is missing features that the old one had , possibly future revisions would bring some of this back .
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
end question
start question
How should I prep a laptop for a return ?
If you 're pressed for time , and since you mentioned the Macbook Air was new and purchased last week , it probably was installed with OS X Lion which has full-disk encryption . If this assumption is true , then Back up your data . I 'd recommend using Time Machine ( so you do n't have to re-setup your user id , install apps , etc ) . create another " throwaway " admin id , and log in to your " throwaway " admin id and delete yourself from the Mac using System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups preference pane .
SMC is short for <URL> . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . Therefore a reset can only help in problems that are related to such . Possible cases where an SMC Reset could be necessary include ( according to Apple ) : fans running fast but should not keyboard backlight , battery indicator light , display backlight or magsafe LED behaves incorrectly power button does not respond closing/opening the lid does not work properly battery not charging properly system unusually slow
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
Command-Return Hold the Command key and tap the Return key This will bring you to a Finder window , where the file/app is selected within the enclosing folder .
It looks like the TexturePacker program includes the ability to process images from the command-line , which you could then batch process with a script . You 'll first want to install the utility by clicking Install Command Line Tool under the TexturePacker menu in the app . Then I 'd suggest having a look at the <URL> , which includes the command-line parameters for most of the options in the app . Have a look at that , and see if you can get the actions you need on the command-line . If you need help turning those into a batch processing script , I 'd suggest coming back and amending your question with the specifics .
In any of the common scenarios in which you store your Store credentials on devices under the control of others , it makes good security sense to have those be different from the ones you use for iCloud . For example , it is common to share music among family members by using an Apple ID for purchases on all of the family 's machines . If that Apple ID were the same as the one you used for iCloud , then ( unless you can be sure that all family members have secured their machines ) anyone who got his hands on one of those machines could potentially gain access to your e-mail , calendar , and documents ( and , in typical configurations , could even <URL> if he had access to it ) .
The VPN is a function of the specific version of iOS and not very well documented in the <URL> . The information needed to establish a connection is more a function of the configuration on the VPN server and less about how the iPad data gets entered ( except the details must match for the VPN to work ) A better resource is the iPhone configuration utility ( more of a total iOS configuration tool ) and enterprise deployment guide that goes into much more detail on what VPN protocols and settings can be used with iPad . They have step by step guides on setting up a VPN or having iOS devices join existing VPN . <URL>
I 'm running OSX under VMWare , and as long as you do n't run the VM in full screen , Display Preferences shows the screen size as the current window size , minus any host window borders . With this you can resize the window manually to get close to the resolution you require . The caveat to this is that you ca n't " set " the screen size to an exact amount , but with a bit of playing about you can get the resolution within a few pixels . You will need a monitor with a larger resolution as the VM window does take away some pixels , so if your monitor is only 1280 wide , you will never get a full 1280 width with this method .
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
That $ 600 rate is less than Apple charges for a liquid damage overhaul at the repair depots . That repair is around $ 900 for the Air and 13 inch models and $ 1200 for 15 inch models . Since the keyboard is integrated within the housing , it 's like taking the engine , chassis and all parts out of a car and building it up new in a new frame . The labor time and consumables ( ribbon cables that are too fragile to reuse , etc. . . ) seems about right for a $ 600 repair . Apple techs see this sort of things all the time , and wo n't push the expensive repair unless there is internal damage . A light cleaning would be $ 39 of labor or possibly free if they could do it while you waited . If they did n't open and inspect the Mac , you could ask what that charge would be to be sure it really needs an overhaul and rebuild . I would say , you could do a surface cleaning yourself as long as the machine is functional and then shop around for a used Mac between now and February . Then at worst , you could then do the $ 600 service or if the corrosion damages internal components you might be on the hook for the $ 900 repair . During that time look out for any Black Friday sales and/or new models since repairing it makes more sense if you have AppleCare for several years or really love this particular model Mac . You could also sell it for $ 700 to $ 800 to someone that needs a cheap Mac and then pay for the repair once you have an agreement for them to buy it . You 'd only be out of pocked a few hundred $ $ and could buy your choice of new Mac . Lots of options , but the quote is legitimate and you would have a warranted Mac for 90 days post repair should you send it in .
You need to change the icon of the folder that contains the items in the stack . This can be done in several ways , but perhaps the easiest is to start by navigate to the folder of the stack , change that icon , and set the stack to display the folder instead of the contents . Click the stack , click " Open in Finder " in the stack , and then press the keystroke ⌘ + ▲ . The key press will take you " one level up " in the directory hierarchy so that you are now looking at the folder that houses the items in the stack . Next , select the folder ( If it 's not already selected ) , and " get info " on it , by typing ⌘ + I , or right-clicking and selecting " Get Info " . At the top of this window will be a miniature icon of a folder . You can click on this and copy it via the keyboard shortcut ( ⌘ + C ) , or paste in an image that you copied from somewhere else . Finally , you need to right-click on the stack and set it to display " folder " and not the stack contents .
The keyboard command for sleeping all displays is Control ^ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏ . This shortcut does n't put the computer to sleep , but only shuts off the display .
Unless there is some reason to the contrary that I 'm not aware of , yes , you can use your MacBook charger with your iPhone . The power adapter will only convert as much power as is drawn , and the iPhone will only draw as much power as it needs . ( Note that it is not a good idea to charge your MacBook with an iPhone or iPad charger ! )
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
You ca n't clear this list or remove a song , unfortunately , but the list is limited to 5 songs , so adding new songs will clear previous ones . I noticed this so I said , dammit , I might as well set one song for each workday . :)
Well , basically the standard Firewall blocks incoming connections only . So as long as any network accesses are triggered by your Mac ( as in the case of clock synchronization or software downloads/updates ) , you can block all incoming connections . Once you have the firewall set up if you install anything that requires a connection you will be prompted to allow or deny that connection - so turning it on has little downside and lots of upside from a security standpoint .
You probably need to step a level further down the tree of software and hardware , to the level of <URL> - which acts as a filter between the physical keyboard and the keyboard events reported to MacOS . The software keyboard map is an optional thing - software can intercept keyboard events at a level that bypasses it , if they wish , and it sounds like some of what the browser does with key binding is touching on that . A lower level remapping may bypass that problem .
Looks like there is an Eclipse extension for Fortran , aptly called <URL> . It should run fine on the Mac .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
Dr. Bott have HDMI adapters that can transmit audio as well as video , assuming your MacBook supports it ( yours does ) : <URL> Then , <URL> which transmits both video and audio . Note that Thunderbolt is <URL> with Mini DisplayPort as far as these cables/adapters are concerned .
end question
start question
How do I open an EPUB from an email in iBooks on my iPad ?
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
The best way to migrate is to make sure you have a current Time Machine backup and just restore from that volume to the new machine . I have restored from a Time Machine backup to an empty formatted hard drive and it worked perfectly , including my custom FTP , HTTP , and git configurations . It took about 10 hours for a 1TB backup .
<URL> ... is the solution I 'll go with now . You can export your Latex as a picture which can be very easily copied into iBooks Author .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
To erase everything and restore the iPhone to the factory state , go into Settings , then General , then Reset . Press " Erase All Content and Settings " . If you have a passcode , you will be prompted to enter it . Select " Erase iPhone " and the wipe will begin . Be sure to have your iPhone connected to a power source as the erase takes a long time . When it 's complete , the iPhone will have no SMS , calendar , phone logs , contacts , etc. .
In 4.2 at least , you can tap on the bubble to see the email address , then press and hold on the email address . A copy option will appear above it .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
. ibooks files are a special Apple-only multi-touch version of the epub standard . They can only be created using the iBooks Author app , and they can only be read by the iBooks app on an iOS device or a Mac running OS 10.9 or higher . The main attraction of the . ibooks format for authors is that it can easily incorporate a large variety of interactive features via widgets . The Apple list is at <URL> and a 3rd party list is at <URL> . epub is an open standard which can be produced by a number of apps ( including Apple 's Pages ) and can be read on any platform using a variety of apps ( including Apple 's iBooks ) . There is no way to convert . epub to . ibooks , other than to put the content into iBooks Author and republish it from that app . Starting with version 2.3 of June 2015 , iBooks Author can also produce . epub format , as long as one of the . epub templates is used .
One item ( independent of the type , can be text , can be an image ) can be stored at a time in the clipboard and it is not possible to access past entries . The clipboard is stored in memory .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
No - OS X older than Lion can not read or comprehend/mount/use a <URL> such as used with <URL> . Someone could reverse engineer the protocol and write drivers for older OS or different OS , but I have n't even seen a start towards that effort in any open source project .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
- files were files used by developers in the process of application development for OS X 10.2 . They contain xml-strings -- try editing the file in TextEdit or TextWrangler , you should see an XML-structure , or see <URL> . It ca n't really be run alone , it 's used to tell packaging applications how to pack the application into a real application . To put it short , it can be used with the application <URL> : ( . packproj ) : Creates a project file for use with Iceberg . This allows you to use Iceberg to edit package options before creating the actual package . Do note that this is ancient code , and may not work ( supposed to work from OS X 10.2 and up ) .
iBooks Author only opens iBooks Author projects ( . ibooks ) . You need to create a new iBooks Author file and import the ePub into it . Go to New & rarr ; New from ePub file ... .
Yes you can , here are the steps : Connect your external disk Open Finder and go to move the Aperture Library.aplibrary file to a location on your new disk Open Aperture and go to preferences ( from menu or by pressing ⌘ + , ) On the General tab , change the location of the library to where you copied the Aperture Library.aplibrary file That 's it , the library is now on your external drive .
Apps are paused when backgrounded and resume when opened . If an app does not correctly resume to the state it was left in , this is something only the developer can fix . It 's not possible to run an app in the background as if it was in the foreground . Apps can only run a limited set of tasks in the background for a short period of time per Apple guidelines , or use structured backgrounding such as Background App Refresh . Also see <URL> .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
This is because of how you can program the pasteboard on Mac OS X. Text editors expect the pasteboard to contain , well , text data . There are however several kinds of text : there 's plain text , there 's formatted ( RTF ) text , there 's formatted text with embedded documents ( RTFD ) , there 's HTML-formatted text , and a bunch of others . When you copy something , the application tells the pasteboard how this data can be represented . There are usually several suitable representations : for instance , copying your question exports data in the pasteboard that can be represented as a web archive , RTF data , and plain text in three different encodings . Plenty of types that applications are likely to support . However , when you copy a mail from Mail , it exports only as two types of data : plain UTF-8 text and a RTFD document . Cocoa tries to paste as an RTFD document because it likes them better , but applications say " no no , I ca n't do that " ; they usually support getting text from RTF , but not from RTFD since RTFD usually has embedded resources such as images , and you end up pasting nothing because the apps do n't bother to look for the plain text data . TextEdit , on its side , is able to edit RTFD documents , so it has no problem pasting the data .
For Mac OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.0 : Click on the " Calendars " button on the main window to show the sidebar of calendars . Right mouse click on the calendar you want to ignore alerts from &amp; choose " Get Info " Check ON " Ignore Alerts " &amp; click " OK " Seems as thought you do n't have to globally set this preference , you can now selectively choose which calendars have alerts or not , through iCal .
end question
start question
Does the iPhone multi-task while sending email ?
Apple 's own applications have the capability to do " real " background processing and multitasking . User created applications have " some " capability ( and limited time ) to perform " certain " background processing and multitasking . With that said , most apps that need to finish a task , can do so because Apple has provided a way to do such things .
You are correct . The video will be compressed to a smaller size before sending out . EDIT : If you want to try to send uncompressed video , you can try the trick from this guy , <URL> In the Camera Roll or Photos app , press and hold on the photo . A menu should pop up with Copy as an option . If you want multiple photos , you can hit the Share button the toolbar and select all the photos you want and then hit Copy . Either way , you 'll end up with the full-quality photo in your clipboard , which you can then paste into an email .
The easiest way to schedule a workflow is to use iCal for the scheduling : if you have followed the steps of the tutorial you linked to to the letter and have saved the workflow as an iCal reminder , Automator will have added a new event named like your workflow to a local calendar called " Automator " ( creating it if it does ' t exist yet ) . This event has a reminder set to execute the workflow 0 minutes before the event . To execute it every day on 4 a.m. , just schedule the event that way ( you could also set it to only repeat on weekdays -- or to anything iCal will let you do with a scheduled event ) . To make sure the triggering event itself is not included , make sure the " Filter iCal Calendar " action ( the 1st step of your workflow ) excludes the " Automator " calendar -- either because filter conditions will bypass it anyway , or by setting a filter condition to " Name is not Automator " . You can hide the " Automator " calendar from displaying in iCal by unchecking its checkbox in iCal 's calendar list , thus making your workflow execute invisibly for all practical purposes . Also note iCal does not need to run for the event to be triggered , but you must be logged in and the computer should not be sleeping ( a workaround for that last gotcha is to <URL> -- this would also be necessary if you scheduled with or ) . The actual workflow is to be found in and can be set to a " open file " reminder on any event , should you ever need to do so .
Try Adobe Reader . You can use iTunes to transfer PDF files to and from it and send them by email too . ( Tested on an iPad ; probably works the same way on an iPhone . )
This problem come from the order in which 2 important operations are scheduled to read a sensitive piece of information which is a password : lock exclusive access to the keyboard read characters typed at the keyboard Apparently these 2 operations are scheduled the wrong way round : read characters typed at the keyboard lock exclusive access to the keyboard The part of the kernel in charge of reading the keyboard is waken up before locking the keyboard . This is fully understandable when you want to be able to wake the system on any keyboard entry . But in such a case , a mechanism should clearly indicate to the user when the keyboard is safe to type a serious password and not wake up noise . This wrong scheduling was apparently a small problem and not noticed by many users since the 2 operations are anyway scheduled in a small window of events ( it 's a question of one or 2 seconds here ) . This small window of time to schedule these 2 operations is larger if you are just waking up your disk , or if your disk is n't fast enough for your fingers , or if you have too fast fingers . This is the reason why some people thought that this problem was created by hard disk drive ( HDD ) and suppressed by solid state drive ( SSD ) . In fact the problem is n't suppressed by an SSD , it is just more difficult to exhibit . You should consider this as a fundamental bug in password reading which is hidden when using a fast enough disk or slow motion fingers .
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
The issue is probably that the space is being taken up by swap files and possibly a hibernate sleep image . To see this do an These files are deleted on a reboot and start increasing as you use more memory and Xcode takes a lot of memory . You need to reduce the space used by the rest of the system . apps and data . Basically 120GB is too small unless you only use it for development and not any music or other media files . You can save a bit of disc space by removing unused applications and clearing out other languages ( see other questions here ) but getting a bigger or external hard disk is probably a better use of your time . To see where the space goes see the applications in this <URL> or from the command line .
If you change your " arrange by " options via " right click " > " arrange by " to any other than " none " spaces between the icons is clinched/stretched according to window size , or icons even get rearranged to the next line if space gets to narrow . This should be default behaviour without " arrange by " since it kind of breaks list view if active . Sadly Apple rarely listens to customer needs , since they " know what the customer wants " .
iTunes does support the original iPhone , there is no where it is written in the requirements of iTunes 10.5 that says that iTunes requires this version of iOS or this particular iPhone or even iPod in order to sync with it . All Apple music devices should be supported unless other wise noted . The only point where it may matter is if you have updated to the latest version of iOS from a newer version of iTunes ( e.g. greater than 10.5.0.142 ) and then are attempting to use that updated iOS on an older version of iTunes 10.5.0.142 in this case . In that situation there may be issues communicating between the two due to apple changing protocols or who knows what else between versions of iTunes and iOS . I suggesting updating to the latest version of iTunes , and then contact Apple or their discussion forms if the problem persists .
Yes ; The Geo tags are written into the images via the native Location Services within the phone , primarily via the GPS chip the phone contains . Since the information written is merely latitude/longitude , you do not need to have a data connection in order for that information to be determined and added . The need for a data connection in tandem with photos is the ability to place them on a map , when using iPhoto for example .
It is imperceptibly worse than the standard iPhone DAC + amplifier + headphone jack . Regarding the debate over whether it contains its own DAC , iFixit looked into this , in collaboration with Creative Electron , by x-raying an adapter and investigated what they saw . According to iFixit , it is likely that it contains , at minimum , " a digital-to-analog converter ( DAC ) and amplifier , and its counterpart , an analog-to-digital-converter ( ADC ) . " If you 're interested in learning more about that , <URL> . <URL> Also on that page , they refer to German computer tech magazine c ' t , which conducted a <URL> into the sound quality of the iPhone 7 with adapter when compared to an iPhone 6s and an iPad Air with and without the adapter . Below is their English translation of c ' t 's findings : <URL> If you compare the contents of the various columns , you can see that there is very little difference in output with and without the adapter , though dynamic range and output power are very slightly reduced -- well below the threshold of human perception . From iFixit 's article : So , is it a difference you are likely to notice ? If you sit in a quiet room with a really , really good pair of headphones ... and you 're a canine , the answer is : maybe . The numbers do show a reduced output impedance on he new models , which will improve frequency response with certain headphones . For optimal performance over the full frequency range , headphones with x impedance should be driven by an amplifier with an output impedance of no more than x/8 . The iPhone 6s , with its 4.5 Ω impedance , can drive headphones with impedance greater than 36Ω , which excludes many smaller in-ear models . The adapter 's 0.37 Ω impedance can accurately drive headphones as low as 3Ω -- lower than any on the market . In summary , if you have high-quality in-ear monitors , you may experience a small but noticeable increase in audio quality with the new adapter . Everyone else will experience an imperceptible decrease .
<URL> that provides a really good run down on what HDR is and how it performs on the iPhone . Basically it takes three photos at various exposure levels and combines them . So you get a " normal " photo at regular exposure levels and the HDR version ( 1 photo composed of the three ) . Results vary depending on light conditions etc. . I 've had some really great results and some shockers .
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
I 've had an iPhone 4 since the day it came out . After the first year or so the oleophobic property has completely gone : it 's now no different to my old iPhone 3G screen in terms of finger smears . I 've never cleaned it with any sort of chemical agent but I 've also never kept it in a case that covers the screen , and it spends a lot of time in my jeans pocket . So the answer is yes , under some conditions it certainly does wear off over time . Your mileage may vary , of course : kept in a case , or carried in a bag or purse where the screen does n't get rubbed , it should last much longer .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
No He will be stuck on IOS 4 most popular apps have support for ios5 or higher I have a 3g 16gb too old espically for a newbie . Get the 3GS unlocked version if you want to be cheap / most bang for bucks . He wil be stuck on EDGE until Tmobile finishes adding 3g Support for unlocked iphones . They have done a few cities google which ones 16/32gb 3GS is the best in my opinion . Favcetime and stuff is impossible over 3g unless you can find a ip4 off contract for sub 200 dollars then get tyhat i used 4 different iphones on tmobile 2g 3g 3gs ip4 been with them since 2001
I believe by default it checks every ten minutes . To adjust the interval , click on the mail icon , then hold down the Command and Option keys and click on Preferences . A box will pop up asking for a key and value . Use as the key and type the number of minutes in the value box . Then click Set and you 're done . You need to restart it for the change to take effect . NOTE : is case-sensitive You can also do the following in Terminal Replace the above with a number to represent minutes between checks
No , this does not work . I started a background recording with DropVox , then switched over to PlainText and tapped the dictation button and dictated a sentence . I then switched back to DropVox and it looked like it was still recording ( the counter was still going up ) . I stopped it , it uploaded the file , but when I listened to it the start and end were there , but the part from when I started dictating to when I opened DropVox back up was n't . Very strange , but ultimately the answer is it does n't work . If you 're curious , the resultant audio file can be found <URL> . " And it looks like the timer 's still going " was said after DropVox opened back up .
Apparently , Push Notifications Permission are reset if the devices are restored or the app is uninstalled for a day . Extracted from <URL> The first time a push-enabled app registers for push notifications , iOS asks the user if they wish to receive notifications for that app . Once the user has responded to this alert it is not presented again unless the device is restored or the app has been uninstalled for at least a day . Therefore , these preferences must be stored where iOS System Settings are stored .
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
end question
start question
WiFi sync with computer connected by cable to the WiFi router ?
No , if they are both on the same network , there is nothing special you need to do .
There 's actually no visible indication on the screen when it 's being used ( right now ) . I have noticed that when leaving home and getting on the road , the network switches from my wifi as I drive away onto the 4G a lot faster ( without causing a drop in any streaming audio ) , but there is no indication on the screen that this is happening . In short , it 's a background feature .
What happens in your proposed case is that if you delete messages from the iPhone , and then power on your Mac , the Mac will not receive those deleted messages . EDIT : Well , folks , I stand corrected . I certainly believed the above to be the case , but my tests proved otherwise . I sent several messages from multiple devices to other devices that were powered down . Each message was deleted before the recipients were powered back on . Although there was a significant lag in reception ( one took nearly ten minutes ) , all messages that were sent were received , even those that were deleted . Several of the messages were out of sync , which does n't surprise me given the flakiness of the iMessage system during its infancy . However , to the original question , the answer is that messages , deleted or otherwise , eventually find their destination , even to devices that were powered down when those messages were transmitted . ( Hat tip to tubedogg for the correction . )
timothymh 's solution is definitely the simplest if you just need to know occasionally , and is built-in , but if you need something more advanced ( e.g. monitoring ) , then the following may be useful : <URL> ( free ) , though I 'd recommend the <URL> if you 're on a recent version of OS X <URL> ( free ) <URL> ( about $ 5 ) From the screenshots , inSSIDer actively displays which network you 're currently connected to , but otherwise all three show lots of details of all networks your card can pick up , including channels , signal strength and BSSIDs . If your aim is to test the coverage of wifi access points , you will probably find more benefit from something like <URL> ( free ) . This lets you map the signal strength as a ' heat map ' in your home/office/etc , effectively letting you see where each/any access point is available from , where you will/won ' t get access , and how strong the signal will be . Edit : To monitor AP switching , using the terminal , it is possible to watch the system logs : Or simply use the console : Applications > Utilities > Console . In the filter write and you will see when your computer switches across BSSIDs .
I 'm not aware of a good way to modify the radio broadcast power level on the built-in card on a Mac . However , you may find that setting up a <URL> achieves your goal of limiting the range . Regarding your second question , there have been previous inquiries about changing the WiFi encryption protocol on Mac Ad-Hoc networks from WEP with no results .
Yes - once you have things set up - Windows , iOS and Mac will all see the Time Capsule even when it 's not running the network and your router still handles routing . Of course it depends on how you set up the Time Capsule since out of the box , it will want to be a router and you could hook things up in a troublesome manner unintentionally . The time capsule has a firewalled connection ( The WAN port ) that if you use , you have to tear down several settings to allow someone from " outside " the network to see the drive . The Time Capsule has several internal ethernet ports as well as potentially joining the network over WiFi which would n't be firewalled . I would set up the Time Capsule in bridge mode so it does n't turn on DHCP/NAT , etc and connect to your router if possible over ethernet to one of the <URL> . The ports you want look like this : As long as it 's in bridge mode and you connect over WiFi or a LAN port , everything should be fully functional and all Macs and PC will see the Time Capsule as if it were running the network . It might also function for <URL> and other nice to have items - but that also depends on the router settings .
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
I imagine this is the case : iPhone and iPad are using an integrated chipset ( like this : <URL> ) supporting both Wifi and Bluetooth . And as both of them are on the same chip the manufacturer could be just incrementing the MACs . However the question is why you ask this - if you want to use this information to check if it 's the same device : do n't , as there is no guarantee that it will always be this way .
Go to Settings - > Safari - > General , Authorise yourself and try to update your password there .
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
I use <URL> and it has this capability . If RedLaser ca n't connect to the internet when you take the picture of the barcode , it will store the number and let you look it up later :
No . IPhone will use the cellular connection for push notifications at any time , unless is turned off . Also , if the lock screen is on , then iPhone is connected to the cellular network , not wifi . IPad is always connected to wifi , lock screen or no .
There is a jailbreak application called <URL> . It 's free by <URL> in the BigBoss Cydia repository . It allows you to view all of the passwords for the networks that you 've joined ( including usernames for WPA2 Enterprise networks ) .
You can only share Internet from an Ethernet , Bluetooh , or FireWire connection over Wi-Fi . That 's because you can only use your Wi-Fi connection for one thing at a time . If you 're connecting to the Internet over Wi-Fi you wo n't be able to share that connection over Wi-Fi . If you 've got Share your connection from : set to Wi-Fi , it 's normal that To computers using : does n't have a Wi-Fi option :
With airdrop it is always a direct connection ( usually wifi or a mix of wifi + bluetooth ) between the 2 devices . No internet connection is required at all . So you can transfer as much as you like and it will all be local between the devices ; " peer to peer " like you say . Your internet quota wo n't be used at all .
One more thing you could try : Uninstall all HP printer driver software using the HP uninstaller in Applications > Hewlett-Packard . Reboot / restart your mac . Reset the printing system via : Sys Prefs , Print &amp; Fax Right ( control ) click in the rectangle listing your printers and then choose Reset Printing System . CAUTION : The above steps will delete all of your printers . Select the plus sign to re-add it . Look for the printer , select it and wait until the " Add " button becomes available . Click it . Hope this helps .
Since there are a lot of causes - let 's try to narrow down some things . If you are on Snow Leopard - you can get some more detail on the MacBook to know if there is interference or if there is potentially a hardware error . Hold the option ( or alt ) key and press the WiFi icon in the menu ( you 'll have to add it if it 's not in the menu for this testing . ) All the mac cares about is transmit rate - it 's the best number to tell how much data your mac thinks it can send reliably to the router . The higher the rate , the better . A high transmit rate is all that matters - even if the signal is weak , you still have a good connection if you have a solid transmit rate . Next is RSSI - it 's less intuitive . I tell people think of sunlight into the ocean . If you are -20 feet below the surface it 's really light . RSSI of -100 is really dark / really faint signal . In ideal environment - no noise , good antennas on both mac and router and good amplifiers reading the singals - you can still operate at -100 , but any interference or extra distance , you could stop getting a signal . Different macs have different RSSI - so if you have a close match in hardware you can be sure the problem is the mac by comparing with another . If not , it 's more guesswork . Your iPhone WiFi antenna is likely 10 times as big as the Mac 's antenna so it 's looking more like a signal issue than anything else . I hope this helps you decide what next steps to take to find the cause . You can change the router , change the physical location or change the hardware . If a repair shop is close , maybe try a diagnosis there . If not , you 'll have to take the mac to other locations with that router and try changing the things you can control . It 's not likely software since moving the mac closer to the router does n't change the software , but you might check for updates if some new firmware does better with interference or error handling . It 's a long shot so I list it last . EDIT - I am home and can report some transmit rates . On my older equipment , transmit rates of 24 to 54 are seen on an old linksys 802.11 b router . My MacBook Pro gets transmit rates of 200 to 300 pretty much all around the house . Even when I have one bar in the menu bar for airport signal strength , these transmit rates stay high as the RSSI goes to -90 ( which is getting far away from the base station )
UPDATE : I answered my own question as follows : I bought an Apple Airport Express and set it up on my building 's wifi . Then , I connected it by ethernet cable to my Airport Extreme 's WAN port . My Airport Extreme is still functioning just as it always has , broadcasting my local wifi network . I 've been testing this for over a week now and it 's been flawless . Best of all , the current Airport Express model can be found on ebay for under $ 40 shipped .
iPhone 4S has a smaller antenna and slower processor ( A5 vs. A5X ) than iPad 3rd generation . More importantly , the iPhone 4S wi-fi is ( 802.11 b/g/n ) 2.4 GHz only , while the third generation iPad has two channels -- 802.11 a/b/g / n Wi-Fi ( 802.11 n 2.4 GHz and 5GHz . ) I do n't think the iPad uses both channels at once , but I think if the second channel is more clear or faster to your router , it would not be surprising the iPad gets faster speeds over Wi-Fi . I think a faster processor alone would allow for faster Wi-Fi speeds . Similarly , the faster CPUs in MacBooks and iMacs would allow for faster Wi-Fi speeds , even if the networking architecture is the same . ( I suspect it is n't , and that there are larger antennas in Macs than iPads , which is another factor ... )
end question
start question
How to create a new Snippet in TextMate 2 's Bundle Editor ?
In the bundle editor window , choose File ' New ( or Cmd + N ) and you 'll get a sheet like this : Just choose ' Snippet ' from that drop down .
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
I 'm running OSX under VMWare , and as long as you do n't run the VM in full screen , Display Preferences shows the screen size as the current window size , minus any host window borders . With this you can resize the window manually to get close to the resolution you require . The caveat to this is that you ca n't " set " the screen size to an exact amount , but with a bit of playing about you can get the resolution within a few pixels . You will need a monitor with a larger resolution as the VM window does take away some pixels , so if your monitor is only 1280 wide , you will never get a full 1280 width with this method .
Unfortunately , this is n't possible . The MacBook7 ,1 has a SATA connection for the optical drive , whereas the MacBook2 ,1 has an ATA connection for the optical drive .
After testing one router configuration at a time , I finally fixed it . I had to change the wireless access point frequency from 5Ghz to 2.4 Ghz . The option is called " 802.11 Band " in the web interface . I hope that nobody else has to go through this .
While TextMate does n't have built-in FTP or SSH capabilities there are a few bundles for it that have tried to remedy this shortcoming . In particular the <URL> aims to provide what you seek : a way to define a " project " that can be synchronized ( both up and down ) with a remote file system . The bundle is a touch dangerous if you 're using FTP as it requires your password be left in plaintext in the file that you leave on disk at the root of your project folder to tell the plugin how to connect to your remote file system . The other option , if you 're not set on TextMate and just want something like TextMate , is to take a look at <URL> . I 'll be honest , I was a die hard TextMate guy , but in the last six weeks Sublime Text 2 has won me over . The active development from the company on the product , the very active bundle community , and it 's incredible speed when it comes to working on large files have really taken me in . There 's an <URL> for ST2 that 's a cut above the plugin for TM I mentioned above . It leverages keychain for password storage and does n't require you keep your passwords in plaintext on disk for it to work . It also lets you set up mappings for remote < - > local connections directly from the editor UI .
If you are using the terminal client , generally you can do things like reset the root users password for mysql or create databases . A simple example can be found at the <URL> , of which I will copy the highlights . To create a new MySQL user : Login to MySQL in Terminal : In the prompt : If you want to create a database : is all you need to do If you do decide to use mysqladmin , <URL> .
SNESTile is a Java-based cross-platform tool for editing SNES graphics . Links : <URL> <URL> Most such tools are DOS-based though . You could certainly download <URL> and some of the tools listed <URL> .
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
TextMate 2 uses a special file called to control lots of settings in the app . It will use if present for global defaults . You can also add one inside a source tree to control settings for a particular project . The setting you 're looking for is : Just add that line to ( or create it if it does n't exist ) . You can read more about this file <URL> .
Right click on the icon and select " New Window " . PS : I know what you need it for :)
<URL> , based on Eclipse , has support for additional protocols , not just FTP . It 's free .
Have her go to Settings.app > Store - if your account is signed in , sign out . She can then sign in to her own account . Any apps you 've downloaded using that account will still prompt for that account 's password when they need updating , though .
You should use iTunes to burn the MP3 CDs . If I remember correctly , MP3 CDs are very slightly more complicated than just a folder on MP3s on a CD . iTunes does an excellent job . I 've also had luck with LiquidCD .
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
Even easier : Make an Album of the photos you want to use in the Slideshow , and base it on that . This has a couple of advantages : It simply references the photos in the Events , and uses no ezra disk space , while keeping your Events intact You can sort the photos manually , into any order you like , which you ca n't do with Events . To make a new Album : select a couple of the pics and go Command-n ; then drag the rest of the photos to that Or , shift-command-n to make a new empty album
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
It will still take 30 clicks , one for each link , but ... Remember that Cmd ⌘ on Mac is usually equivalent to Ctrl ⌃ on Windows . Cmd ⌘ Click will open a link in a new a tab behind the current one , if you click a link . Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ Click will open the new tab &amp; bring it to the front . These are the default settings [ iirc ] but they can be changed in Prefs ... Edit : Sorry , I only just realised you said Chrome . It does follow the same behaviour , though I ca n't find anywhere to actually change it .
Go to Mail - > Preferences - > Viewing and check ( under View conversations : at the bottom ) . This will show " related messages " , which ( as far as I can tell ) means messages that you send in the same conversation .
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
end question
start question
How can I stop Finder from trying to ' pre-load ' audio files ?
uncheck ( If you 're in List view or Icon view , click to make it the default ) . Repeat for each view mode as necessary . Hope this helps ...
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
I found a solution that works for my needs : As it turns out , I should not lock the screen , but instead start the screensaver , and require the screensaver to immediately require a password . I created a ' Start Screensaver ' service with Automator , and then selected a keyboard shortcut for that service under Settings - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services .
There are two steps to stopping GitHub Conduit : telling GitHub.app to not re-install the job with launchd and telling launchd to not run it anymore . Disable Conduit installation : Remove launchd job :
You might want to try the application <URL> . It has a built-in function to convert Mac file &amp; folder names to legal Windows file &amp; folder names : Naturally , somebody will come along later and throw a smattering of regex in a bash script for you to puzzle out , but ABFR does this kind of thing so easily . It can even create a droplet app onto which you can ' drop ' files &amp; folders to be processed . It is a handy tool to have in your toolbox if you are n't a strong programmer , or do n't have the time , or both .
It is inconvenient , but if you add after your search term in the Finder , it will exclude Mail messages too .
The file you mention is a binary formatted property list . You can convert and edit these files with developer tools such as <URL> . The following article walks through the steps required , <URL> .
To access any folder in Finder , press Cmd + Shift + G and enter the directory you want to access .
Not using the All My Files option , but yes you can , using your own search criteria . Open your volume in Finder Search for Any Document : Set the search location to the name of the drive : Alternatively , for all files ( not just Documents like All My Files ) you can set the search criteria by size : You can change the view to make it match the appearance of All My Files :
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
I recommend <URL> , which gives you a hovering command prompt . It can automatically detect the current folder you 're in ( in Finder , or any document-based app ) . You can press return to run a command in the DTerm window , or ⌘ + return to open a Terminal window .
In column view in the Finder , you can resize columns by positioning the mouse pointer over over the thin line that separates column panes , and dragging it to the left to make it narrower or to the right to make it wider . To make the Finder remember the new width , <URL> while dragging the pane separator to the desired width . The <URL> alludes to the fact that holding down option resizes " all columns at once " but does not explicitly say that this makes the change persistent .
I ended up with this problem , too , after upgrading from Snow Leopard to Lion . I really needed my F8 key working as a standard function key for my job . I also really did n't want to delete my entire symbolichotkeys plist , though , so I did some digging . If anyone else is having this issue still , you can edit your com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist ( located in Library/Preferences ) with a basic text editor . Once you 're in there just do a search for the number 75 . Keys 75 and 76 ( 76 is the slow animation for when you hold down shift ) are the ones for F8 activating mission control . You can just delete those two entries and your F8 key will become just another normal F-Key again . F9 will still work for mission control and you wo n't lose any other hotkey settings either . As usual , always make a backup of these files when you 're messing with them . Good luck to anyone else with the issue , and thanks to those here who 'd already provided some input and answers .
Ok , I should have taken a look at SuperUser , <URL> a way to do what AllInOne says without fiddling with XML files ( and it 's faster ) . Simply create a new smart folder or hit cmd + F , choose " Raw Query " from the filters and type in the field .
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
end question
start question
How to see what files were changed in TimeMachine ?
Lion has come out with the command and the man page shows that it will crawl a specific backup and report very detailed information on your specific backups . The verbs compare , uniquesize , and calculatedrift look most useful if you do n't mind the terminal . I still use <URL> on Lion ( as well as on older OS ) and have high praise and thanks to the team that built it every time I need to use it . I should probably send them more money , too . It 's that good . It makes it very easy to see what files are taking the most space between backups and also is indispensable for knowing when a specific file has been changed by tracking each time it is saved as a new version going back in time . It works on a local database so you are not crawling the filesystem each and every query - just once each time to collect the deltas for each backup .
<URL> provides a method of using the Ambient Light Sensor to determin a " location " then the location determines what changes on your computer . While ControlPlane is usually used to change system settings depending on where the computer is located , it could also be used to launch an application ( or AppleScript ) upon sensing a change in lighting .
It 's not that easy since iPhoto uses a database to track the files . When you trash the file , it simply removes the reference to that photo in whatever events and albums it used to be included . It makes a reference to the original and modified files , so they do n't actually get moved into a folder that you can get a quick estimate on the total trash size . These pointers to a photo are so small that they are a rounding error compared even to the size of a small thumbnail of your photo . The best way is to just get an estimate how large the typical picture you take is and see how much space a thousand of them take . You 'll then be able to know if emptying the trash has any chance on making a difference size wise .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
The FTP server in Mountain Lion is still there , just not part of the GUI . You can re-enable it using the following in Terminal : To disable , do instead of . * The FTP root directory is your Users home folder .
After several hours of looking and using to trace files , I have come to the conclusion that the certificates are indeed stored in the keychain . ( which in hindsight is a DUH moment ) . Here are the files iTunes reads on launch and during a sync on my mac . 18:38:16.776 stat64 / Library/Keychains/System . keychain 0.000010 iTunes 18:38:16.776 open F = 5 ( R _____ ) / Users/me/Library / Keychains/login . keychain 0.000007 iTunes 18:38:16.801 open F = 5 ( R _____ ) / Library/Keychains/System . keychain 0.000016 iTunes 18:38:26.013 open F = 48 ( R _____ ) / System/Library/Keychains / SystemRootCertificates.keychain 0.000024 iTunes I have been unable to uncover which specific keys or chain of keys are needed . They keychain in my home folder appears to not be needed since other user accounts on my mac see content of my locked iPhone even before iTunes launches . Whether or another low level daemon is reading a system level certificate or the API to access iOS data relies on a common library for access in bypassing the passcode lock on iOS 4 is unclear . It is clear that the iOS passcode wo n't protect from someone that can access the files on your hard drive ( and has the detailed knowledge that is n't yet clear which certificate or file has the keys stored ) FileVault wo n't protect you since the certificate appears to be stored outside the user folder .
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this .
Unfortunately , updating the files in Finder will not update the files in iTunes . This is because iTunes uses a file called iTunes Library.itl as a database of all your media . You can however use the automator actions " Get Specified iTunes Items " and " Set Info of iTunes Songs " to automat the process of updating the metadata . There are some other good Automator actions in there too .
I believe that <URL> is exactly what you are looking for . The only downside is that Rubbernet can not distinguish between LAN traffic and WAN traffic . It sounds like you are looking at one computer , so that should n't be an issue . There is a demo available on their website , or you can buy it from the <URL> for US$ 25 , which seems to be a pretty good deal since they want $ 29.99 ( about US$ 42 ) for a single user copy or $ 49.99 ( almost $ 69 ) for a " family pack " if you buy through their website . ( Hat tip to <URL> for bringing it to my attention a few months ago . ) If you want something cheaper , <URL> might suit you too .
The most basic way is probably to use globbing : This will list all files with a filename length greater than 10 characters . There are 11 question marks , and the asterisk matches those with longer length . Modify the number of question marks to match what you 're looking for . For greater than or equal to 10 , use , or for equal to 10 use .
It is neither wrong , nor correct :) The drive uses a chip inside to do the encryption and everything depends on how powerful the chip is . Most likely Mac CPU will be more powerful . Also if you connect over network or through USB2 , encryption speed will not matter much because the transfer will be much slower than the encryption . I would not bother with hardware-encrypted drives and just use Mac encryption . Why pay more for hardware encryption if you can do it with nearly the same speed on a Mac and you have other speed limiting factors ?
Safari does n't handle the unzipping itself , it simply opens the zip with the default program , which is the OS X Archive Utility , unless you 've changed it . By default , Archive Utility should n't delete zip files , but it 's possible the preferences got changed . To stop the archives from being deleted , open Archive Utility , located in , then open its preferences . Change the After expanding : setting to leave archive alone .
Same font , but Apple added a very subtle text-shadow and tweaked the bubble reflection . That 's the difference . iOS 4 iOS 5
<URL> can do this . Select " Streaming/Transcoding Wizard " from the File menu . Choose " Transcode/Save to file " . On the next page click " Choose " and open your AC3 file . On the next page tick " Transcode audio " and choose " MPEG 4 Audio " and choose the desired bitrate . Click " Next " , choose " MPEG 4 / MP4 " , click " Next " again and " Choose ... " where to save the file . " Next " and " Finish " . The file VideoLAN creates has the extension . mp4 , change it to . m4a and there you go .
You can use <URL> : This can be run on an entire folder using find :
You might want to set yourself up a Standard User Account in System Preferences . Or maybe better is removing some of the multi-touch abilities in your System Preferences ( such as disabling Tap to Click , Look up , or any setting you do n't find particularly to your liking ) Setting up a Standard User ( System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > " + " ) allows you to add a new person to your computer who does n't have access to everything like a normal Administrator does . In computer terms the hierarchy is Guest , then Standard , then Administrator , then Root . The Root is the computer itself and can do anything and everything it wants . Admins have similar flexibility with files and folders that belong to them but anything out of their reach requires a password . Standard accounts and Guests can do much with an Admins name and password , Guest files are typically deleted after logging out so what they do is n't meant to last . Consider these tips with a grain of salt and let us know if you need further help .
For future reference I found <URL> perfectly ! That solution actually wraps the script mentioned in the other answer as an automator action to make it easier to use by those unfamiliar with Terminal . To re-create the service , use Automator to create a service that receives selected files and folders , select the Run shell script action , and paste pastix 's script into the script area .
The list of blocked sites is in the BannedURLStrings array in ~ / Library/Safari/TopSites . plist
Just delete all your google.com cookies ( not the google.co.uk ones ) and it will magically start working ! See <URL>
You can always use the terminal command with the option : [ Option - P will ] Overwrite regular files before deleting them . Files are overwritten three times , first with the byte pattern 0xff , then 0x00 , and then 0xff again , before they are deleted . If you 're not handy with the Terminal , just : Open the Terminal.app ( Found in / Applications/Utilities ) . Type and drag the folder which contains the file you want to delete , to the terminal window . Type and hit Enter
end question
start question
Create audiobook from mp3 files ?
I use iTunes 10 in Windows 7 . Select the tracks . Right-click and select Get Info . Open the Options tab . Set : Equilizer Preset = Spoken Word Media Kind = Audiobook Part of a compilation = No Remember position = Yes Skip when shuffling = Yes Gapless album = No Press OK . Also , make sure the correct track numbers and disc numbers are set for each track .
Folders that end with . bundle already act that way . They are opened in Terminal by default though . The file type is defined in : To make folders that end with . content be treated as packages , add an entry like this : Then rebuild the Launch Services database to apply the changes : You could also add this to a CFBundleDocumentTypes array in the Info.plist of any application : To apply changes , rebuild the Launch Services database or touch the application bundle . If the application is signed , modifying the Info.plist <URL> though .
Set the service to receive selected text , then add a Run Shell Script action with the following content , setting the shell to / bin/bash and passing the input as arguments . Replace the URL with your desired URL , where is where you would like the selected text to be inserted in the string . Also , that 's all you need for a Google search -- do n't bother with the additional session parameters .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
New apps are never installed to the first screen . Instead , they are put in the first open space available from the second screen onward . If there is no open space for the app , then a new screen is created . This does seem like something that could easily be turned into a preference ; and , there may be a jailbreak setting already . But there is currently no way to override this behavior that is supported by Apple .
You can disable Gatekeeper in System Preferences : This removes the warnings about opening files downloaded from the internet : It does n't affect the dialogs about <URL> though . You can run Finder as root with , but it 's not really meant to be done permanently .
Go to Safari preferences Disable the Open safe files after downloading
Maybe in your Home folder ? It 's the default folder the terminal points to . Try to open it through the Go menu in the finder .
Assuming you still have the Launchpad icon on your dock try dropping the app you want to be added to Launchpad on it . Have n't tried it myself , but I recall reading about it somewhere .
Enable " Remote Login " in the preferences of the target/remote mac . Then use with user being the short name of the remote user . You will be asked for the password of the user on remotehost . If you want to avoid using passwords , you can set up ssh key pairs . See <URL> for details .
For adding functions to iTunes you should look at Doug ; s Applescripts . There is a script to <URL> .
You have to add the following line to your Preferences → User Settings :
In iTunes under the File menu choose Add to Library ... and select the songs you want to add to iTunes . When iTunes is done adding the files , sync your iPhone with iTunes on your PC . That 's all there is to it .
OSX contains an unarchiver so you do n't need the equivalent of a . exe so you can extract on any machine and not be stuck as you are on a Mac when you receive a Windows self-extracting archive To archive select the files in Finder . Command-click or right-click and choose compress from the menu - you will get Archive.zip . To unzip just double click on the . zip file The tool that does the unarchiving is Archive Utility.app and understands various compression schemes <URL> including bzip2 which can be better than zip - but you need to compress using a command line tool bzip2
Got a reply from the support . What I asked is not possible -- but you could use two <URL> ( in my case I could n't do that though ) . Our licensing agreement with Apple does n't permit transmitting the operating system via the internet . As there are other methods to run the application ( as outlined previously [ <URL> ] ) most folks can run the software using the downloaded application . Also , DiskWarrior is the type of utility to prevent these problems - regular maintenance can help prevent the emergency situation .
Have you seen this other question / answer ? <URL> The Finder has built in video encoding and you could even use these to set up watch folders and attach a pre-set conversion using Automator if you found one setting that you prefer ...
I 've found that I can do this by editing the file . Just added : to , and after reopening bash my alias command worked just fine .
Either you have on your library same album and different artists or , most likely , you 're creating some weird rules that generate that behavior , like <URL> . If that 's the case , seems like you 'd have to change to in any rule that uses the plus sign . Granted , it is inconsistent behavior in this second case and it might get fixed in the future . And , who knows , there might be few other little bugs like this as well .
You could use <URL> to try to clone the raw volume ( there are some notes on running it under OS X on <URL> ) . It basically tries to read over &amp; over , getting as much as possible from the disk . This is n't ideal for your situation , since it 1 ) needs enough free disk space ( either a volume or a disk image ) to hold the entire drive , including free space ( i.e. if it was a 200GB drive with 10GB of files , you need 200GB to hold the clone ) ; and 2 ) it does n't tell you which files it could n't read ( you can look at the log and see what blocks it has n't been able to read , but figuring out what files those blocks are part of is not trivial ) . The good news about is that , thanks to its log file , if it missed something you need ( and you have n't modified the target volume at all -- mounting readonly is recommended ) , you can just run it again and it 'll pick up where it left off , and keep hammering on the difficult blocks until they give up their data .
I am 99 % sure that Finder can not change tags . Check <URL> for free ID3 editors .
end question
start question
Is there a way to " unsubscribe " from group texts in iOS ?
As iMessage stands today , this can not be done . Just as you ca n't block a number or email from sending you an iMessage - there is no technical way to get others to not send you a group message ( other than by exerting social pressure to exclude you from further communications ) . I have n't been able to find anything playing on my phone , and several forum posts suggest that it ca n't be done : On <URL> , sla252 writes ( November , 2011 ) : Just got off the phone with Apple tech support . They admitted there is no way to remove yourself from an iMessage group chat . The tech guy says the best thing we can do is go to <URL> There 's also a <URL> in which huntard713 suggests ( October , 2011 ) : Settings-Messages . Turn group messaging off . It 's now November 2011 and I ca n't find this setting on my iPhone , and this was in response to a slightly different problem ( about who sees the other participants in a group iMessage , so I do n't know how effective this . I 'm sorry this does n't really answer your question ; for now at least , it looks like you ca n't leave a group iMessage .
In OS X 10.11 the default under System Preferences > Mission Control for the Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is checked . So to not have your Spaces rearranged on you , uncheck the checkbox for that setting . <URL> To have an App tied to a particular Desktop , open the target App on that Desktop , then control-click ( right-click ) the target App 's Dock Tile and select : Options > Assign To > This Desktop <URL> To have an App launch automatically upon Login , go to System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > select the User > click Login Items and add the App . <URL>
Have you tried setting the track number in iTunes and then syncing again ?
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
I 've found that if head to mission control and uncheck ' displays have different spaces ' , then logout/login you should be sweet . Worked for me anyways .
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
With iOS5 and iCloud , iCal 's reminders appear in the Reminders app .
No , iTunes distinguishes your content gathered from outside the iTunes Store as either Matched up Uploaded . Matches means if found the song on iTunes while Uploaded means it could find the selected song but instead took your copy and placed it in the cloud . The benefit of the former is that Apple 's copies are high quality AAC files and will replace your sometimes inferior lower bitrate MP3 in the cloud . At no time does the service concert any item to the " purchased " status however . Once the service expires , Matched and Uploaded songs no longer can be downloaded indefinitely . The iTunes Match service is essentially the download portion of the service . Once you unsubscribe , you can no longer download any more songs from the service that have been marked as either Matched or Uploaded . Any song you downloaded while iTunes Match was active , you get to keep , though . More information on iTunes Match can be found here : <URL>
Yes , it is possible , however the only way I know of doing it also hides the dock icon . you must modify the file named ' Info.plist ' inside the Application 's package ( i.e. Sherlock.app / Contents/Info . plist ) . Open this file in your favorite text editor and add the following section ( if it 's already present simply change the 0 to a 1 in the string tag : <URL> In OS X 10.8 + , use this instead ( note LS instead of NS ) :
You can by using an Administrator account and renaming the apps in Finder . LaunchPad will show the changed name accordingly . There also is <URL> , which seems to make renaming items and other operations in LaunchPad possible . Unfortunately , it seems to be discontinued , so try it at your own risk . Finally , if you are comfortable with SQLite databases and SQL , you could manually make the necessary changes in <URL> . I 'd advise you to first back up your database before you start tinkering with it . You can use the built-in command-line client to manipulate this database . You 'll want to find the appropriate records in the table , and update their field .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
Third party solutions In my experience , BlueHarvest is best in class . Technically , it is not an answer to the question ; it can remove but not prevent files . If BlueHarvest is effective but does not suit your use case , it becomes difficult to give an acceptable answer to your question . If you have no acceptable third party solution , then you must work with what 's integral to Leopard ... Without a third party solution : restrain your use of Finder By avoiding the views that you do not wish to save , you can prevent creation of files . Most users will find it difficult to restrain themselves in this way , but it 's a true answer within the limitations of the question . <URL> for an annotated view of <URL> where Matt Deatherage ( a former engineer at Apple ) explains and other types of file .
I 'm not sure if using a fake address would be legal . Technically , you can create an account in the US Store using an iTunes Gift Card and a fake address/phone number . You can buy iTunes Gift Cards in eBay ( some sellers will expedite things by sending activation codes by email ) . If you 're only interested in free Apps , you can create an account without the Gift card . There is an <URL> describing the process . Regardless of payment , Apple asks for a valid US address to establish an account , so the legality of this depends on where you live .
end question
start question
What 's the best solution to sync contacts from Mac to Android Phone ?
I finally found a solution that I 'm happy with : On my NAS appliance , I installed <URL> , which supports contact synchronisation with the <URL> protocol . OS X support CardDAV out of the box . On the Android device I installed <URL> and <URL> ( see the <URL> ) . Both together cost about $ 5 , but there are free versions that also work well with fewer features . Still much less than $ 40 for Missinc Sync or SyncMate . Thus I get the advantages of a cloud solution ( immediate updates , two-way sync ) and get to keep my contacts private .
I was able to get these values by booting into the Linux partition ( which somehow managed to get the correct resolution by itself ! ) and using the following cmd in terminal ( requires super ) : I was expecting a range of values , e.g. , but got the exact values - vfreq 60.223 Hz and hfreq 50.949 Hz . This should be available via a live-CD/usb too .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
The most popular IRC client on the Mac platform is undoubtedly <URL> ( free ) . It has a sleek interface and is extremely configurable . You can find others here : <URL>
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
The best way is to stop syncing contacts via iTunes and do it all over the air : On your Mac : go to Contacts.app ( or Address Book.app if you 're not on ML ) > Preferences . Under Accounts tab , tick the checkbox " Synchronize with Google " and add your gmail info . On your iPhone : setup a Google Exchange account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendards . Google has a <URL> for that . After that all your contacts are synced over the air and iTunes will stop syncing those when you attach your iPhone .
There 's 2 different things here which are not pretty clear . First of all , there 's SMS and iMessage . And like explained on this <URL> you can restrict iMessages from giving a notification if you decide you want contacts only ( since iOS6 ) . This does not work for SMS . With iOS the name of Show iMessage alerts from changed , but the functionality remained the same .
<URL> The current version of Mac OS is Mac OS X ( pronounced " Mac O-S ten " ) . ... . Major releases of Mac OS X include versions 10.0 , 10.3 , and 10.4 . There are also updates ( sometimes called " dot " releases ) for each major release , such as versions 10.2.8 and 10.4.2 . This does present a problem because it is n't correct to write Mac OS X. 6 . All references to Mac OS X 10.6 , are easier to pronounce as " Oh Ess [ Ex ] ten dot/point six , " rather than saying , " ten , " twice . <URL> The Darwin layer of Mac OS X comprises the kernel , drivers , and BSD portions of the system [ ... ] . Mac OS X extends this low-level environment with several core infrastructure technologies that make it easier for you to develop software . Apple purchased NeXT for their XNU kernel , which is a hybrid kernel forked from CMU 's Mach microkernel . BSD is an implementation of Unix originally released through UC Berkley . <URL> is the rendering engine for the user interface . The Apple Finder is a system application that always runs for user access to files and the desktop . OS X is the sum of these and other parts .
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
The font you see in most places on Mac OS X is <URL> , it is the system font in OS X 10.1 Puma to 10.9 Mavericks . Mac OS 1-7 used <URL> , then Mac OS 8 and 9 used <URL> . The most recent additions are <URL> ( OS X 10.10 Yosemite ) and <URL> ( OS X 10.11 El Capitan and macOS Sierra )
I see the mostly likely cause of this being the possibility that your default sending address is set to your email address . I say this because it appears that you initiated the conversation . You can check ( and change ) this by going to Settings.app - > Messages - > Send &amp; Receive . Under " Start new conversations from : " , observe whether your email address or phone number is selected . If your email address is selected , this would be an easy explanation as to why this happened . Otherwise , as far as I know , ( and I have just went over this to verify ) , it is impossible to extract the email address that is associated with an iMessage phone number from just a regular iMessage " text " .
It would help to understand what exactly are you trying to accomplish ? From what I read I think you want to limit the Smartphone Capability but want to use it for maybe 1 hour a day ? So is this a Data restriction question ? You can always turn off the Cellular data and or restrict what Cell data can be used for . This will allow you to answer phone calls but in order to use any of the Data features of the phone you will need WiFi .
iOS 6 combines your phone number with your Apple ID email address , which makes it possible for others to iMessage your phone number and have those Messages sync across your devices . Whereas , previously , with iOS 5 , one had to use Apple ID email addresses only in order for it to sync across devices . First , you need to make sure all your devices are on the same Apple ID . On each iOS device ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad , iPad Mini ) : Open Settings.app Go to " Messages " and make sure iMessage is On . If iMessage is on , " Send &amp; Receive " will appear below it . Tap on it . Make note of the Apple ID at the top of the page . Select your phone number and email address ( es ) that you want to sync to that device . On each Mountain Lion Mac : Open Messages Click the " Accounts " tab in the top . Select your iMessage/Apple ID account , and make sure " Enable this account " is checked . Select your phone number and any email address ( es ) that you would like synced . The most important part is that everything is consistent across all the devices . Note that only new iMessages will sync - history will not . If you are still having trouble getting new iMessages to sync across the devices try : Disabling then re-enabling iMessage on each device that is n't being synced to . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
First option , there are some excellent services that provide online backup solutions for a reasonable price . Two examples are <URL> and <URL> . The advantage is that you can set it and forget it , and it will back up all your files ( with options for some things you might want to exclude ) . Another option is using Dropbox . You can move your iPhoto Library from your Pictures folder to the Dropbox folder and alias it to the original location ( drag using ⌘ option to make an alias instead of a copy ) . If you do n't alias it , iPhoto should just ask you where the library is stored when you relaunch it anyway . I do n't really think of services like Flickr as backup , they 're more of an online photo organizer , but yes they can be used that way too . There is no synchronization , so you have to upload your updated files manually .
end question
start question
Does Mavericks have a GUI for NFS mounts as in previous OS X versions ?
Unfortunately the NFS GUI tools have been removed from disk utility in Mavericks . However the NFS manager tool ( www.bresink.com/osx/NFSManager.html ) can replace that functionality and provide even more fine grained control than disk utility 's implementation did . If you want this NFS mount to remain mounted persistently you can also use automounter which is a CLI only tool .
can get confused if your short name is different between the two machines . You can check what your short name is on each machine with . To go to a particular account , use . If you still have trouble , use . You may see things like checking . If you want to avoid typing all of the time , you can make ( or add to ) the file with the lines editing each line for your particular case ( the is your nickname , the is the IP address , or mymac.local or whatever you currently use for ) . Then you can just use . If you still have trouble , post some output from but be careful to not post anything private ( like IP addresses ) .
You do NOT need to install a third party app . Both Google Chrome and Firefox support this functionality . ( ok , technically these are third party apps , but lets assume you are not using safari . ) Chrome : Open gmail in chrome . In the address bar next to the " bookmark star " you should see a grey diamond . Click on the diamond Select " use gmail " . If you do not see the gray diamond , follow the instructions below . If you made a mistake and selected " No " and you really wanted to select " Use Gmail " With Chrome open , copy and paste this into your address bar at the top : Under the Ignored protocol handlers section , Click on X to the right to delete . Close and open Gmail . Answer the question correctly this time . :) Source : <URL> <URL> Firefox : See @Am1rr3zA answer on this question . <URL>
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
Sort of ... you can go into Safari , choose a website , then click the bookmark icon , select the @ tab , click Subscriptions and then click Add Current Site . Otherwise Reeder for IOS is a great RSS reader . <URL>
The terms are listed deep in <URL> : The applicable storage fee for an upgraded storage plan will take effect immediately ; downgrades to your storage plan will take effect on the next annual billing date . So a literal interpretation would be you would not get any credit for the unused portion of the year you paid for the initial storage if you upsold yourself before that year term expired . In practice , Apple has been generous with giving pro-rated refunds for AppleCare when you cancel it ( but that is listed explicitly in the T&amp;C for AppleCare ) and has extended MobileMe storage for free - so you could either get the lower storage tier added to the end of the higher tier ( which would be a bit of a complicated thing for Apple to track - especially if you did two buys in one year ) . I suppose you could open a <URL> to see if they have a current policy on how they handle up-sales from one paid tier to another , but I would expect the initial purchase to end when you upgrade to a higher tier before the anniversary unless you contact Apple and they offer you a credit or extension as an exception and not something that is programmed into the system .
Lion is the first Mac OS X to license some virtualization on the non-server OS . From the 10.7 EULA : ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software . Notice the condition , though : it 's only allowed on Mac hardware when running Lion as the host OS . There are also provisions for installing it over Snow Leopard macs . Running it on HP hardware would likely be a violation of the license as written . Check with your lawyer as always when the question of legality is involved since any license has to respect your local laws .
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
You can disable Smart Zoom by going to System Preferences → Trackpad → Scroll &amp; Zoom and unchecking the Smart zoom gesture .
The PowerPC and Intel Macs are totally different architectures , so you are correct , you could only really emulate a PowerPC install on an intel machine , versus virtualize Windows/Mac OS/Linux on a intel machine . There are some PowerPC emulators , but the one I know of for OS X would be <URL> . I have used PearPC a very long time ago , and do n't know how well these work on newer machines . Up until Lion however , at least PowerPC software was emulated using <URL> . This was dropped in Lion though . If you really do need a PowerPC machine , for dedicated work , I would personally buy a used older machine from ebay , which would be rather inexpensive depending on what kind of power you need . Note : Removed iEmulator because its made more for emulating windows or linux on a intel OR PPC mac .
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
<URL> ( Free ) A great free FTP client . This is my go-to application . Anytime I need FTP access , I use Cyberduck . It 's not quite as lightweight as Fugu , but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu . I also really like the Growl integration with Cyberduck . <URL> ( Free ) Awesome little FTP client . As I noted above , this is a lightweight FTP client . It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing . I do like the dual panel navigation . EDIT : I forgot to add these . <URL> ( Free ) I have n't actually used Filezilla extensively , but from what I 've seen of it , I really like it . I downloaded it and played with it for a bit and I really like the tabbed connections . I also like the ability to jump to a path easily . <URL> ( Free , $ 29 Upgrade ) A free FTP/FTP-SSL client . I do n't usually use RBrowser because a $ 29 upgrade is necessary to unlock other protocols ( Local , FTP/SSL/TLS , SFTP-SSH ) . I do like the Site Manager . It 's a handy little thing to have . I searched and came up with some other free FTP clients : <URL> ( Free ) - Firefox extension The one downside I see is that this is for Firefox . The website does n't make it clear how it works with Firefox , so I assume it is an extension . <URL> ( Free ) This one relies on <URL> Since I do n't know anything about MacFUSE , I do n't know if this is good or bad . <URL> ( $ 34 ) By Panic I have never used Transmit before , but I have used Coda and I definitely would recommend anything from Panic . The only reason I have n't used this because of the $ 34 price tag . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , just found it when searching . <URL> ( $ 24 per user ) An amazing program with a long , long , long mac heritage . It 's way up there with Transmit by Panic and Interarchy as a file transfer program loved by long time Mac power users . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , but looks good from the screenshots . I really like the fact that it looks like Finder . I may have to give this one a try . <URL> ( Free ) Just searching around and found yet another one ... It looks pretty nice , except it 's no longer supported . However , you can still download it .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
Unfortunately the NFS GUI tools have been removed from disk utility in Mavericks . However the NFS manager tool ( www.bresink.com/osx/NFSManager.html ) can replace that functionality and provide even more fine grained control than disk utility 's implementation did . If you want this NFS mount to remain mounted persistently you can also use automounter which is a CLI only tool .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
My suggestions : <URL> -- great app , can record in-game videos , records both microphone and system app , compress video and still fast ; $ 29.95 . QuickTime -- records audio only from system input , supports in-game screen capture , slower then iShowU HD , but still smooth , free and built-in . <URL> -- Ugly interface , very buggy . <URL> -- No demo available ; $ 14.99
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
end question
start question
Can I update an existing Apple ID with a newly created MobileMe email address ?
You can call AppleCare as suggested and merge all your purchases from the old Apple Id to the new Apple Id . <URL> Sorry , but this is not possible at this time via our online tools . You can speak with an AppleCare representative , who can help you consolidate your registered Apple products . They can also help register your iPods , iPhones , or Mac computers under a single Apple ID . Other links that could offer some insight : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
There are no driver updates for components found within a MacBook Pro ( or any Mac for that matter ) found anywhere but through Apple 's own update system . And as you say , it 's not something you need to worry about . They retain tight control over their components and mainly make driver changes through OS updates rather than parse everything into individual packages . However , they may release small updates that attend to these kinds of glitches periodically or when a serious issue arises . So long as Software Update reports no new updates , you will be running the latest drivers available for your Mac . You wo n't find alternate drivers elsewhere . Additionally , what you describe is not normal and I would suggest you see a Genius at an Apple Store ( not a licensed vendor ) . They will investigate and you may just walk out with a new machine . Apple has legendary service ; make use of it .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
According to this <URL> , the problem is n't just the size . It turns out , as well as a smaller size , the Nano SIM is reportedly 15 % thinner than the Micro SIM cards . So even if users cut the Micro SIM to Nano SIm size with a knife or nano SIM cutter tool , the Sim card would still be too thick to put in the iPhone 5 .
From Apple iPad 4 tech spec : MPEG‑4 video up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second So based on that info , FPS and resolution for mp4 are too high . Use <URL> and convert to H. 264 that supports HD on iPad . Otherwise you can try <URL> media player for iPad that can play almost all formats .
I just discovered that this is possible in Mac OS X 10.7 Lion ... and after testing further I discovered it 's possible in Mac OS X 10.6.8 also . I 'm not sure if this works in earlier versions , but here are the steps to make this happen : For the sender : Create a new Group in Address Book either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Click on All Contacts to view all your contacts . Find the contacts you want to add to the list and drag and drop them from the list of contacts on the right to the new list you created on the left . Once you have added all the contacts to your new group you need to send the list to your friend . You can create a new email message and drag the name of the group from the list in Address Book and drop it on a the email message to send the list . Or , you can select the group and use the File > Export > Export vCard ... menu item to export the list , and attach the resulting file to an email . For the recipient : The key to making this work is to create a new group first and then dropping the vCard on that group . Create a new group in the OS X Address book , just like in step # 1 for the sender , using either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Drag and drop the vCard file sent to you on the new group which you created . Make sure the new list " lights up " as shown below : You will be asked if you want to import the new cards . ** If you are told there are duplicates , click " Review Duplicates " . If you are not told there are duplicates , click " Import " and skip the next step . If you have duplicates to review , Select the " Keep Both " option , and then click " Apply to All " ( if that option appears ) . This will create duplicates in your address book , meaning your original contacts will not be altered and you can delete your friend 's copies later if you want to . The new group you created will be an easy way to find the new duplicates should you want to delete them later . You now have a copy of your friends list added to your address book , without altering any of your cards . You can compose emails to this entire group ( remember to use BCC ! ) if you want . If you want to delete the list ( and the duplicates ) later , you can select the group on the left and press the delete key on your keyboard . You are then presented with the option to delete the actual cards as well as the group , which will remove any duplicates you might have created in the previous step :
You have to double-press the side button on the Apple Watch to activate NFC/ApplePay . This is due to energy saving .
No . The copy of Lion you get with a new Mac is only available via the recovery partition on the hard drive and this version of the OS is tied to the hardware . <URL> : When you reinstall Lion via Lion Recovery , it seems Apple uses information about your Mac 's hardware to verify that it has a license for Lion . <URL> : Unfortunately , as Macworld points out , this trick does n't apply to OS X Lion itself -- there 's no DVD or thumb drive included with a new Mac , which means the big cat only lives on your new Mac 's recovery partition , which appears to be tied to the hardware itself -- meaning you ca n't install it on your other Macs without ponying up the $ 29.99 from the Mac App Store . Would be nice if you got it for your other Macs for free when you bought a new Mac , but for now it seems like it 'll still cost you another $ 30 to bring all the Macs you own up to the current OS rev.
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
Run the following command in Terminal , then restart your Mac . The iCloud password will appear again . And do NOT forget to change ID@APPLE.COM yo your real Apple ID .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
On windows you ca n't redirect only these two folders ( on OS X and Linux you can ) - BUT you can move the whole " iTunes Media " folder to D : then all updates will go there . In iTunes " Edit > Preferences ... - > Advanced Section " you can change the location of the media folder - the new folder on D : does n't need to have the name " iTunes Media " , it just need to have the same structure as it had on C : .
You have to use a single apple id in iTunes homesharing on all devices that you want on your appleTV BUT This does not mean that you ca n't buy anything anymore with your personal apple ID everything you buy will still be placed in your library and will be shared on the ' family ' apple ID account <URL>
From the <URL> : With iTunes Radio , you can easily share stations via AirDrop , Mail , Messages , Twitter , and Facebook . The stations you share continue to change as you tweak the mix , so your friends can listen to music that adjusts with your evolving tastes . Show off your favorite stations , or tune in to your friends ' to hear what they 're into . So , it appears to mean that they 're getting a read-only instance of your station , that updates as you update it .
The simplest solution would be to add the address to which you want alarms sent to your Address Book entry . Beyond that , I do n't have an elegant workaround , but you could , for example , run a script that could contain a variable to send alerts to multiple recipients . I sympathize in that it 's annoying that your Address Book entry is forced to contain a mix of public and private information used for various , and differing , purposes . This is one of Apple 's many decisions that ( I assume ) works for the majority of the user population , but bites the outliers in various ways .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
end question
start question
Is there an equivalent utility to Linux 's tracepath for OS X ?
You can use the standard that the Mac OSX comes with to find pmtu . shoud do the trick . Please note , the size is just the ICMP datagram payload size . To see the IP MTU , you need to add 8 bytes of the ICMP header and 20 bytes of the IP header ( so for example , to send 1500 Bytes long IP packet , you need to specify size as 1472 ) . Please note , is important here , as it sets the Dont-Fragment flag on . You can also use to run a ping sweep . This pings your host with packets starting from up to in increments . Again , same rule applies to your sizes - these are just for ICMP payload ( so you need to add 28 Bytes to the size specified here for the full IP MTU size ) . What you 're looking for is an ICMP unreachable message back with a " Fragmentation needed but Do n't Fragment flag on " sub-type back . The IP address of the sender of the above ICMP message is the host or router which has its MTU set to lower than the size of your packet , on the link which it would use to forward your packet further towards the destination . Please note as well , that sometimes ( badly misconfigured ) firewalls or traffic filters will block all ICMP messages and in such case , you 'll just see no response . To test which host dropped the packet , you could run traceroute to your destination and then repeatedly ping every hop on the way with ' - D' and a size or a sweep to discover the local MTU of the link that hop is connected to . It will be the link between the last host you can ping and the first host you ca n't that will have a smaller MTU . Again - this is all subject to routers handling ICMP , which they might not . The PMTUD ( Path MTU Discovery ) protocol works in the same fashion . It uses TCP packets with DF flag on . The TCP sessions endpoints agree on their MSS ( Maximum Segment Size , which is MTU less IP and TCP headers , 40B ) - they choose the smaller of the MSS values advertised by each host in the TCP handshake . Then they send all traffic with DF flags on , and wait for the ICMP unreachable or a TCP ACK . The latter means the PMTU is sufficient , the former mean they need to drop MSS . Hope that helps !
I use Espresso on a daily basis . You 'll need to the <URL> and the <URL> to get the code completion . Espresso also have a preview functionality that helps a lot in developing a page with minute differences .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
I 'd like to point you to the following <URL> . Open up Automater and select " Service " in the " Choose your type for your document " Dialog . Afterwards use the apple-script in the linked answer and you can now run the service via : Finder -- > Services -- > Create new File Setup in Automator : Create new file in service menu of finder :
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
An alternative is <URL> . It has a handy little window with a sound visualizer : Once it identifies the song , it displays the name and artist : And takes you to a link where you can download it from iTunes or buy the ringtone version :
Is this what you 're looking for ? <URL> : Disable Autosave and Versions on Lion - Setting Go to System Preferences > General Untick " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " . Then reboot .
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
I 'd rather have this a comment , but for some reason I can only post answers . Have a look at LaunchControl : <URL> . While it does not offer a menu item to start/stop services it provides a list of all available launchd jobs , their current status and a way to start/stop them with the click of a button .
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
It is not possible to know at the time the credentials are requested . The security mechanisms in OS X do not require pre-authorization of specific actions . Applications and other processes are asking for one or more <URL> . Each right grants the application specific capabilities : <URL> Authorisation rights are a core part of Mac OS X 's security . Rights determine who can and can not access specific functionality . Administrators of Macs often need to change the defaults that ship with Mac OS X. Use Console.app to view the . This log file contains every successful and unsuccessful attempt to gain these rights . If granted , the application is then free to perform actions with this new raised level of authorisation . Occasionally the actions are also logged in the file . User Interface The process responsible for showing the security user interface is part of OS X and not part of the requesting application . The application is likely in . The requesting application does not and can not access the credentials interface . Limits of Time , Use , or Both OS X 's rights are often limited by time or use . As an example , the <URL> right is limited to 30 minutes . Other actions are limited to a single use ; such as launching an assisting process just once . As OS X has been developed , Apple have tended towards restricting initial rights . With OS X 10.11 , even the once super user has been limited by default . All with the aim of better layering security .
have a look at <URL> . Its not expensive and it has " Screens " and " Frames " function which both should to be doing what you need .
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
You can edit Date and Time in iPhoto , and do it in batches too : Photos Menu - > Adjust Date and Time - and it will also correct the date and time on the original file if you choose to . Another thing to consider : iPhoto catalogues the images on import . If you subsequently change the metadata with a 3rd party App , iPhoto wo n't recognise this . It will not rescan for changed metadata , so while you 're original files may be corrected , it 'll make no difference in iPhoto .
From the article at <URL> Press Command-Option-Esc to force quit , it brings up a dialog so you can choose which app to quit . Command-Option-Shift-Esc for three seconds will force quit the front-most application . Here is another helpful article : <URL>
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
end question
start question
Do I really need to replace my MacBook Pro ?
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
There are several other options your can try . First try rebooting/powering up and after your hear the chime press and hold the option/alt key . This will take you to the UEFI boot loader where you will be presented with all the boot options OS X recognizes . If you can , select the hard drive that contains your OS X installation . Should the boot loader not launch or launch and then present you with no options reboot and then try pressing and holding command + r after the chime . This will either boot off of your recovery partition or attempt to boot your system from internet recovery . If it 's the latter it will take some time so be patient . Once you are loaded into recovery mode launch disk utility from the tools dropdown . Select the first entry for your hard drive in the side bar and then click " Repair Disk " . This will attempt to repair any errors with your partition map . Reboot and then hopefully all will now be functioning correctly .
The new TVSJ Framework or the TVML wo n't work on my 3rd Gen Apple TV ? Apple said the 3rd gen Apple TV will not run tvOS when means you ca n't develop any app on that device . If you do want to develop , you can buy a 4th gen. Do I have to develop everything via iOS swift/Objective-C ? Nope , Apple TV runs tvOS which have its own SDK . But the frameworks are very similar . tvOS also got some of its own SDK which iOS do n't have . You do need to develop in Swift or Objective-C . Can I test/install my app without a paid developer membership ? Yes , Xcode 7 allows you to test app on device without paid account . Though to install app on Apple TV , you will need an USB-C cable .
Yes it does . It has to verify the firmware with Apple 's servers ( gs.apple.com ) . If it can not , it will error out ( usually presenting a 3XXX error , which is quite often 3004 ) and fail to update .
<URL> is a good place for parts . They seem to sell complete screw kits for different models . Although one screw missing wo n't hurt the unit . I repaired a machine recently that is literally held together with celo tape and stickers .
If by " 3g chip " , you are referring to the iPad MicroSIM card , then no , you do not need to power off the device to switch it out . However , if you 're referring to the actual 3G radio inside the iPad , my advice is to take it to an Apple store and have the repair done by an Apple technician , as operating on the device yourself is likely to void the warranty .
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
It could be pure out of memory , but it may be that both products are fighting over the OpenGL implementation that Adobe uses . Try this - it may need some fiddling to get the best balance [ this is for Photoshop , idk the precise locations for other Adobe apps ] In Prefs > Performance , reduce the overall memory requirement - it ought to handle this OK by itself , running into pagefile if needed , but just to see how it goes with this reduced ... Either disable " Use Graphics Processor " or open Advanced Settings ... &amp; selectively disable sections until you find which is causing the issue . If you decide to leave " Use Graphics Processor " on , then look in Prefs > 3D &amp; drop the memory requirement in there to half your card 's total memory , less a little for the system . All these tweaks will require you to relaunch each app , so it may take some time to finally settle at something that works best for you . The alternative , as you first surmised , would be to get a more powerful graphics card with greater memory - if that would be even possible on a Macbook , which I somehow doubt . <URL> states [ for the high-end i7 machine ] : NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M with 512 MB of dedicated GDDR3 memory and Intel HD Graphics with 256 MB of RAM shared with the system -- that Mac OS X automatically switches between for better graphics performance and better battery life , respectively , depending on application use . One thing you should definitely check is that it is at least switching over to the NVidia rather than using the Intel card . <URL> would be the go-to tool for that kind of task .
If you 're talking about an aluminum iMac , getting to the HDD involves removing the built in display monitor to be able to get behind it . YouTube seems to have several video walk-throughs that show the process ( including <URL> ) . Additionally , a quick search turned up <URL> . The process seems too complex to provide here . If you 're comfortable with this level of complexity in hardware repair , then the video or text walk throughs should help you . I suspect , all things considered , if you 're not confident enough to perform the upgrade yourself just by looking at videos of others who have done it , then this probably falls into the class of " take your iMac to your local Mac service centre and get them to do it " : yes , it will cost you money , but they can also guarantee their workmanship ...
I think if the rest of the laptop is still in good condition , then replace it . For one thing , it leaves a bit of a bad impression with a potential buyer . You 're giving them a machine which works only with the plug and if they wants to use it on battery they 'll have to go out and work it out with Apple himself . Personally I 'd expect a pretty hefty price reduction for that . If you replace it on the other hand , you can clearly state so in the description ( eg " battery was recently replaced for $ 120 and should now allow you to work for a full X hours while not plugged in " or whatever ) which actually increases the price and the value of the laptop .
You can only share Internet from an Ethernet , Bluetooh , or FireWire connection over Wi-Fi . That 's because you can only use your Wi-Fi connection for one thing at a time . If you 're connecting to the Internet over Wi-Fi you wo n't be able to share that connection over Wi-Fi . If you 've got Share your connection from : set to Wi-Fi , it 's normal that To computers using : does n't have a Wi-Fi option :
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
Time machine keeps a local store of backups if the time machine drive is not available . This is transferred to the backup drive when it is next connected , so you do n't even miss an hourly save . You can see these highlighted in a different colour if you enter time machine a few hours after being disconnected from the backup drive . Source : <URL>
I made a similar modification to my 13 " mid-2009 MacBook Pro and used the <URL> . You do n't need to provide a SATA cable , rather the frame ( OptiBay or Data Doubler ) used to mount the hard drive in place of the optical drive will use the SATA cable formerly employed by the optical drive . As for tools , I believe you will only need a Phillips screwdriver ( size # 00 or # 0 , I ca n't recall ) . Unless they are required for the OptiBay , I do n't think you 'll need any Torx drivers . The installation instructions for the Data Doubler can be found <URL> and cover the tools required for all MBP models . One tip for doing this procedure - use a long roll of tape stuck to your desk to keep track of the screws you remove at every step . If you 're especially concerned about losing track of where things go , you can put the tape on a piece of paper and write down the location of each screw next to where you 've taped it . All the standard warnings about opening your computer apply here . In particular , be sure you have at least one backup of all your data .
A simple answer , start the MacBook and hold down the D key when you hear the startup chime . This will start the built-in diagnostics and any problems that are found will be listed here . Apple link <URL> .
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
end question
start question
How can I determine what is causing my iPhone to buzz ?
Go to Settings - > Notifications on your iPhone and then look in the section Not In Notification Center . If there are any apps listed there , you can see if notification is turned on or off for them . If any are turned on , you can turn them off one by one to see which one is trying to get your attention . You may also be able to see badge numbers changing on one of your apps which would be a clue that there might be a notification too .
It is almost certain that you have a hardware problem , something wrong with the actual touchscreen . Since the iPhone 4 is less than a year old it 's still under warranty , Apple will fix it for free . If you have n't done so already you can try a complete restore of your iPhone , erasing everything and returning it to it 's brand new state ( after backing it up ) . Odds are not good that this will fix it , but it 's worth a shot , especially if having Apple repair it is a hassle . Apple explains how to back it up and restore it here : <URL>
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
Do you have an original ( aluminum backed ) iPhone ? If so then yes , unfortunately Apple recessed the headphone jack and you do need an extender . If you have an iPhone 3G , 3GS , or 4 , then you should n't need to , as the headphone jack is flush with the device .
In the Photos Settings in the Settings app on your iPhone , you can select optimize storage . Then will it only save often viewed pictures in full quality , and rarely viewed as a thumbnail , if you 're looking at a picture on your iPhone it 'll automatically start to download the picture in best quality .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
This is a super old question , but I can admit to giving up looking for a source for a rather long time . It turns out ( in my case ) that the magic " 4th conductor " within the headphone port that is used for the microphone also is used for the remote control . ie : Vol up/down , Play/Pause , Next/Prev , etc. . This works by shorting that 4th conductor in <URL> . When the cord for my headphones , with only 3 conductors , wiggled in it 's loose fit , my laptop thought that I had pressed the play button , which triggered iTunes to open up . ( I have also seen a similar thing happen with bluetooth headphones , as mentioned above . )
Do this : Plug in your iPad/iPhone Open Image Capture Select your device ( " devMikePad " ) Press the triangle in square symbol in the lower left corner . Select " No application " in the menu . Here is a picture showing what to look for on Snow Leopard or Yosemite .
For my iPhone 3G , I used a <URL> . One of my favorite things about it was how it let your finger slide across the screen with way less friction than the original screen does . Even when my iPhone 4 was brand new , it never had the same glide to it that my iPhone 3G had with the Power Support film . I almost never had to wipe the film on my 3G to retain that frictionless feeling ( it was just always there ) , but with my iPhone 4 ( with no film ) there are many times where I would need to wipe the screen to eliminate some of the friction , only to have it return after a few minutes of use . So if you are looking for a way to make your finger glide across the screen , I would definitely recommend using a screen protector . Although , I have n't tried any for the iPhone 4/4S , so I ca n't recommend any specifically .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
I can add as many phone numbers as I want on the iPhone . When you 're in edit mode in the contact , there 's always a blank line under current phone numbers where you can start typing a new one . If you click on the label of the number , you can select a label ( work , home ) and even a custom label if you scroll to the bottom of the label selection list .
According to an <URL> , there are known exploits for Apple 's keychain , which would allow an attacker to gain access to passwords stored on the iPhone . I believe that Safari uses keychain to store the username/passwords you tell it to remember .
You can find this information along with much other battery and/or system information from the command This command , according to its man page , does : ioreg displays the I/O Kit registry . It shows the heirarchical1 registry structure as an inverted tree . 1 : heirarchical [ sic ] Using a filter by class name ( for battery ) to get only battery-related information : From . Will print something like this : The field you are looking for is . For convenience , filter it out with ( unit is milliamp-hours , or mAh ) : Your field may not display as its value . I 'm using a 13 " mid-2014 rMBP , but you may be using another system with different battery ratings . Apart from battery information , can be used to find out more about your system and other peripherals - somewhat like a command-line System Information tool . If you 're looking for a code-implementation of this command , take a look at <URL> . It 's one of the coolest Swift libraries I know of . Disclaimer : not affiliated to SystemKit or Beltex . Just a happy user of SystemKit .
It seems that an USB cable is still required . The <URL> in Apple Support that shows how to import videos into iPhoto has not been updated recently . Either Apple is still behind in updating these support articles ( not likely ) or there is nothing to update -- in other words , you still need USB . The <URL> for iPhoto 9.2 list the major updates to the app . It mentions that iCloud support is now included , but nothing specific about importing videos wirelessly . Hope this helps .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
You can list specifically which audio devices your system is using in Terminal : Another way you can determine if you have the combination audio port is when you 're viewing you will have an output option that shows up on the input tab .
You can view information on jailbreaking iOS devices at <URL> and they include links to past firmware
If you want to back up your Health data using iTunes , you need to encrypt your backup by selecting " Encrypt iPhone backup " in the Summary tab in iTunes . If you do n't select this option , your Health data wo n't back up .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
end question
start question
What is causing iTunes to open ?
This is a super old question , but I can admit to giving up looking for a source for a rather long time . It turns out ( in my case ) that the magic " 4th conductor " within the headphone port that is used for the microphone also is used for the remote control . ie : Vol up/down , Play/Pause , Next/Prev , etc. . This works by shorting that 4th conductor in <URL> . When the cord for my headphones , with only 3 conductors , wiggled in it 's loose fit , my laptop thought that I had pressed the play button , which triggered iTunes to open up . ( I have also seen a similar thing happen with bluetooth headphones , as mentioned above . )
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
The first thing that I would do is to check in the iPhones Diagnostics reports . In Preferences go to General > About > Diagnostics &amp; Usage . There might be information about your crash there . Your other option is to install Crash Reporter and syslogd from Cydia . You would be able to get some information about crashes there . If you 're having trouble even getting to Cydia , try disabling MobileSubstrate , those plugins tend to cause a lot of crashes on jailbroken devices .
That is the Option key ( Alt on Windows ) . It 's not the same as shift - it 's generally used as a secondary modifier for keyboard shortcuts ( Command being the primary modifier ) and for shortcuts that do n't perform an action ( Option-8 is a bullet point and Option-Shift-8 is a degree symbol ) .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
No , iTunes will not " listen " for music in a given folder ( like the popular BT program Transmission , which will load torrent files once they 've been downloaded to a given directory ) . You have to manually add music by dragging it in the iTunes window or going through the file menu ( CMD + O ) . However , you could achieve what you are after perhaps with some voodoo in Apple Script . Or simply sort the contents of your music folder by " date added " ( provided you are using Lion ) and manually add the songs as they arrive . But then if you are going through all this trouble of manually managing files , you may wish to ask yourself , " why " ? It might be less of a burden to just let iTunes do its thing ( like it was mentioned before , you can tell iTunes to copy the music anywhere you like , on any drive connected to your system , even on a network ) than micro-manage a bunch of files .
This is a super old question , but I can admit to giving up looking for a source for a rather long time . It turns out ( in my case ) that the magic " 4th conductor " within the headphone port that is used for the microphone also is used for the remote control . ie : Vol up/down , Play/Pause , Next/Prev , etc. . This works by shorting that 4th conductor in <URL> . When the cord for my headphones , with only 3 conductors , wiggled in it 's loose fit , my laptop thought that I had pressed the play button , which triggered iTunes to open up . ( I have also seen a similar thing happen with bluetooth headphones , as mentioned above . )
I know you have said you would rather not use an external hard drive , but my technique for storing films for iTunes is to store them on the external hard drive and link them to iTunes by dragging them whilst holding Ctrl and Shift ( on a Windows machine ) which rather than copying into the iTunes folder just short cuts to it effectively .
This answer is in two parts . If you 're after all the preference files associated with iTunes then the list is relatively short . If you want every file that iTunes accesses then the list is going to be vastly and incredibly long and also very difficult to track down . If you can offer some more context of what reason you 're trying to track these down maybe I can help you isolate files related to your needs . All of iTunes preference files : File ( Primary ) : Located at : Files : | | Located at : Hidden File : Located at : All of the settings you set/change in the iTunes application are represented in the two primary preference files . The one in the ByHost folder above and the other main one called above . Hope that helps .
By default , no . What I 've done is drag folders I access frequently to the Places section in the left side bar . There is software to accomplish this though . <URL> does this , and more . If you 're in a save dialogue you can press / to get a file path dialogue , or press ⌘ + Shift + G to get a " Go to folder " dialogue .
Yes ! It is possible to view the contents of backups . There are several programs you can use , the one I use is <URL> . You can view and extract : Messages Contacts Voicemail ( though I have not tried this ) Call history Notes Safari ( bookmarks and history ) Calendar More if you are willing to dig into folders The free version allows you to view the contents , but has restrictions on extracting them . There is also <URL> which does : Photos Recordings Again , perhaps more This is also a free / paid app , so have a look at what you need . Hope this helps .
If you absolutely have to use a Mac to open the xdi file , and you have Parallels or some other virtual environment that can run Windows , you can install WinArchiver and open the file that way . As far as I know there is no utility for Mac that can open xdi files because they are created using WinArchiver which is a Windows only app .
It does , but it 's a little hard to find . It 's under File - > Create New Version . You still need to hold the Option key . But the difference in iTunes 11 ( and 12 ) is that you have to make sure no songs are selected when you perform the menu selection . If a song is selected iTunes will attempt to create an AAC version of the selected song . If nothing is selected you can select audio files to convert to AAC .
Ability to see per-application sound output : Check out <URL> Within Chrome , you can use the <URL> extension to see what tabs/windows are playing audio .
It should keep performing the refresh but it all depends on how the developer coded the app . As always , there 's proper and improper ways to handle a background refresh and the onus is on the developer to ensure they 're using the appropriate techniques and API . The app should show the most-recent info it has immediately upon opening ( assuming , of course , that it was developed with that capability ) . The refresh that was ongoing will continue . Ideally , once the app has been loaded and is ready to interface with the user , it should refresh itself with the latest available data . If the developer created the app this way , the user might see old data immediately upon opening the app but then the data will change within a few seconds as the new data is presented .
This is a new feature in Mac OS X Lion . See <URL> ( Resume ) . You can disable this in and untick the " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps , but will be system wide . Another solution is to hold ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + Q when quitting , the app will then not save the state .
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
Modifying the Info.plist of an app usually invalidates its code signature , so it 's not allowed to access the keychain automatically . You can see if the code signature is valid with for example . An invalid signature can be replaced with .
Go to Applications > Utilities and open up Activity Monitor . Scroll down until you find your application . Highlight it and click the " Quit Process " button in the upper left . Now it is no longer running and can be deleted from your computer .
You can use <URL> to view all the processes running on your Mac at any time . If you prefer to use the terminal , you can use <URL> .
end question
start question
How does one type an " É " ( capital e acute ) in the French keyboard layout in Mac OS X ?
French layout ? Press caps lock ⇪ . Press the é key ( that 's the 2 on a QWERTY ) . Press caps lock ⇪ again . But you need to make sure you 're using the French layout , and not French - numeric ( " Français - numérique " , French flag with " 123 " beneath it ) . Otherwise , you 're explicitly asking the system to use the caps lock key as a shift lock for the numbers bar on the top of the keyboard !
Nobody 's mentioned Apple Mail . I love it , particularly the Lion version .
Use the volume keys on your keyboard ( hold Shift + Option for finer control ) Go to the Sound pane of System Preferences
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
On keyboard , press the " 123 " button to bring up numbers . From here press " # + = " to bring up more characters . ~ is the 4th from the left , second row . Answered on an iPhone :D
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
Bluetooth MIDI in Yosemite ( and up ) Only You can not use Bluetooth MIDI in OS X Mavericks as it is not supported . Bluetooth MIDI was implemented in Yosemite . For more info , see <URL> but I see nothing that actually states it can not function on Mavericks . It is very unlikely that you are going to see a statement from Apple stating that an OS three versions back specifically does n't support a feature that was introduced in an OS that one version back . Features that are listed are what 's supported , not listed as to what 's not .
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
You do NOT need to install a third party app . Both Google Chrome and Firefox support this functionality . ( ok , technically these are third party apps , but lets assume you are not using safari . ) Chrome : Open gmail in chrome . In the address bar next to the " bookmark star " you should see a grey diamond . Click on the diamond Select " use gmail " . If you do not see the gray diamond , follow the instructions below . If you made a mistake and selected " No " and you really wanted to select " Use Gmail " With Chrome open , copy and paste this into your address bar at the top : Under the Ignored protocol handlers section , Click on X to the right to delete . Close and open Gmail . Answer the question correctly this time . :) Source : <URL> <URL> Firefox : See @Am1rr3zA answer on this question . <URL>
Drag anywhere in the circle to move the selection area &amp; use the dot on the right to resize . X on the left to cancel . <URL>
Yes . Follow the instructions in <URL> or <URL> . Essentially , the procedure is this : Pairing your remote with your Mac : Log in on your Mac as an Admin user . Get very close to your Mac ( about 3 or 4 inches away ) . Point the remote at the infrared sensor on the front of your Mac . Press and hold the Menu and Next/Fast-forward buttons simultaneously on the remote for 5 seconds . Your Apple Remote is now paired with your computer . You should see a chain-link style lock appear in the center of your screen for a moment . To pair your Apple TV with a remote : Choose Settings > General > Remotes from the main Apple TV menu . Choose Pair Apple Remote .
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
I used it today . Lion to Snow Leopard and Lion to Lion . Worked fine . I did n't even think about it not working until I read this ... :-)
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
Tap the Settings app . and click on the General * menu * > the Keyboard . Then turn " Enable Caps Lock " on . Now just double-tap the shift key to enable caps lock once using the keyboard . you can see with image tutorial <URL> .
I recommend using the Shared Folders feature in VMware Fusion . I have a Boot Camp partition as well running Windows 7 . When I need to access files that are on the Mac OS X side from within Windows , I go the VM preferences and enable each folder I want to share ( you can share multiple folders form different locations ) . All shared folders will then be shown on the Z :\ drive in Windows . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
What 's fastest : iPhone 4 tethering with bluetooth , usb or the new hotspot feature ?
Fastest to slowest : USB WiFi hotspot Bluetooth Keep in mind the power draw of the options . From most battery efficient to least : USB ( It helps that it 's also charging at the same time . ) Bluetooth WiFi
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
The only way to start a new conversation , or thread , is if the recipient has a different email address . For example , multiple emails can be stored under one contact , but messages sent to and from different emails are stored in a new thread .
<URL> are universal . So , once you have the IEEE standard used , you should be able to resolder a new connector with no problem . In this case , the USB connector used on the <URL> is a USB v1 .1 connector . <URL> I have included the pinouts for USB 1.1 / 2.0 below for reference . <URL> Short of that , I am sure you could use the <URL> on a multi-meter on a USB cable to figure out which pin goes where
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
Charging more slowly wo n't make any difference , other than reducing the slight side effect of heat buildup on the iPad . But it 's perfectly OK to use lower powered ports such as those on your computer instead of the main powered chargers . It 's also perfectly OK to do it the other way around ; you can charge your iPhone using the more powerful 20W iPad main adapter . It wo n't actually charge any faster than using the equivalent iPhone adapter , though . People will warn you that you 'll damage your iPhone using this method , but that 's simply a misunderstanding . 20W is the amount that the charger is capable of delivering , but if the phone does n't ask for it , it does n't get it . It 's not all or nothing .
Fastest to slowest : USB WiFi hotspot Bluetooth Keep in mind the power draw of the options . From most battery efficient to least : USB ( It helps that it 's also charging at the same time . ) Bluetooth WiFi
<URL> by <URL> While the app does n't let you directly browse artists and albums , it definitely uses a <URL> and lets you focus on finding the new music -- by not standing in your way and getting a bunch of recommended tracks based on a given artist seed . Each preview lasts for a whole minute which I think is enough to form an opinion ( and bookmark the track ) . Bookmarked tracks can be re-listened at any time ( with the same time constraint ) . The buy icon link is small and non-obtrusive . Out of ten tracks I have listened to , I loved eight and two of them were by my two other favorite bands that the app had no way of knowing . I also came to like the " passive discovery " workflow where I hear new music without having to browse through the bands and tap tap tap . Last.fm radio was never even close to this . And SuperSonic is free . The last bit that got me was adjustable recommendations popularity , danceability , tempo and the ability to ignore these settings altogether .
No - the OS picks channels algorithmically so you get what iOS chooses each time you enable personal hot spot . I 've seen personal hotspot pick channels 1 , 6 and 11 on iOS 7 when in moderately busy wireless environments like this one with 26 advertising base stations ( and a few hidden ones as well ) .
Today I get the option back . After 6 month I found <URL> app was the reason to disable " personal Hotspot " . I just uninstalled it . <URL> I wrote an email to Onavo support about it and got this reply Dave NOV 09 , 2011 | 06:44 PM IST Hi Jitendra , Thanks for replying . We 're sorry to hear that , still trying to find a solution for this . Our team is working on several solutions , will update soon . Regards , Onavo Support <URL>
All iPhones and iPods with the Lightning connector use USB 2.0 . <URL> : The Lightning connector ... provides an interface to USB 2.0 ( for data and charging ) Also , if you look the USB end of a Lightning cable , it does n't have the additional pins for USB 3.0 . There is actually no point to having USB 3.0 , since the flash memory in iPods and iPhones is not fast enough to benefit from its speed .
If you want an exact copy of the TC drive , the fastest way is to connect the USB drive directly to the TC and use the archiving option in : Other things to consider : Transfering data over wire ( ethernet ) is faster than over Wi-Fi Connecting the USB drive directly to the computer ( than to the TC ) gives better results if you use the Finder to copy data .
It does n't look like there is a direct AppleScript dictionary for working with Bluetooth this way . You could use GUI scripting though , which basically uses the accessibility feature of the Mac OS to select menu items , etc. . A great writeup on how to start with GUI AppleScript is available on <URL> . GUI automation can be difficult if you have a constantly changing list of things , but if you commonly have a list of bluetooth items connected that stays the same you should be ok . You could then call this AppleScript through Alfred .
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
I have both and can confirm that the iPad Mini 4 does not have the iPhone 6S TouchID Sensor . Side by side the iPad feels more like the iPhone 6 where you have to pause on the button to authenticate . Quite disappointing .
Personal Hotspot is designed for sharing a cellular data connection , not for acting as a wireless access point or router . This means that multiple devices connected to the same iOS device can not connect to one another - they can only access the Internet ( assuming the cellular data connection is active ) . Unfortunately I ca n't find any Apple documentation to confirm this , but have seent his from personal experience . Your best solution is to purchase a portable wireless access point and connect all of your devices to that .
The answer from Apple Support is " Yes " , newer versions of the iOS software probably do disable support for " older " iPhone-compatible devices ( although likely " unintentionally " ) . The Apple Support representative advised downgrading the iOS version on my phone even though doing so would violate the terms of my AppleCare agreement ( and obviously , she could n't explain how to do it other than giving me some Google search terms ) . Moreover , she stated that with the release of iOS 5 coming up that I should hesitate to purchase any Apple iPhone or iPod accessories because they can not ensure compatibility . Unbelievable .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
Since iTunes wo n't back up the apps , I tried taking the files , e.g. Evernote 7.9.1 . ipa , etc , and moving them from the iTunes 11 to iTunes 12 . When at the Yosemite machine running iTunes 12 , a double click of the app loaded it to the folder where apps are stored and pulled it into iTunes to sync . Now , I 'll spend a bit of time and look at the old phone to see which apps I use and would like to keep . Just a click to load each one , at least not a search and download off the store .
It 's a question that is very unpopular . You 're right , but you 're not supposed to say it . Yes , the hub someone wrote about has two USB-C ports out of it , but they will be compromised . What the problems is - how the USB-C lines within a cable are used is determined at plug-in time , depending on what you plug in downstream of the port . For example , you ca n't have full speed USB 3.1 and full video at the same time . So the USB-C makes a choice for you . If you plug in both a high-res monitior and USB 3 , then you ca n't have both at once . So it will be interesting to see how the various hub supplies will handle this problem . People think that a hub will be much like a USB 3.1 hub , where the function of USB does n't change when you plug things into it . But if you plug a high-res monitor into a USB-C hub , your USB regular data will suddenly drop down in speed to what two interior wires can handle , instead of four . The bandwidth just is n't there . Today 's USB-C is USB-C on training wheels .
end question
start question
How to make Mac 's mouse icon to be left hand friendly ?
You can use the following app called Mousecape : <URL> After downloading , installing both the app and the helper app , do the following : Go to the Mousecape preferences and choose " I am left handed " . Dump the system cursors into a cape from the menu : " Capes " → " Dump Cursors " Apply the Cursor Dump cape ( right click → apply ) Done !
To show various drive icons on the desktop use the following commands in Terminal : External hard drives : Hard drives : Removable media : ( To complete all options available in the Finder preferences : mounted servers :) Afterwards restart the Finder : To disable showing the respective desktop icons simply replace true by false
The most important thing to do before buying any iOS 7 device is check for activation lock . <URL> I do n't want to copy all the steps in case they change , but in a nutshell focus on the text that appears below in a section you need to expand : How do I check for Activation Lock before purchasing a used device ? When purchasing an iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch from someone other than Apple or an authorized Apple reseller , it is up to you to ensure that the device has been erased and is no longer linked to the previous owner 's account ... You will know that a device is ready for you to use when you are asked to " Set up your iPhone " , " Set up your iPad " , or " Set up your iPod " during the device setup process . You basically , power off the device and start it and slide to unlock . The Apple document explains in more details what you will see and how to ask the seller to properly unlock things before you take possession of the device . You might also <URL> if you ca n't meet face to face to ensure both parties deliver what they agreed upon .
Use Jailbroken iPod 2G to spoof the Mac MAC address , so your iPod is now online . Tether the Mac to the iPod and use PdaNET or MyWi on the iPod so that your Mac is online through your tethered iPod On the Mac , set up Internet Sharing , and share your existing connection from the tether to a WiFi network On the HTC , connect to the WiFi network . Schematic :
This is actually still possible ; however , a safe-guard to protect novice users has been added . There is now a minimum distance that you need to move the icon away from the Dock for it to be removed . Once that distance is reached , the cursor will show a wrinkled paper icon . Simply release the mouse then , and the icon will be removed from the dock normally . Alternatively , one can still use the context menu of the icon ( right-click or long-left-click the icon to make it appear ) and go to Options > Remove from Dock .
You can use a tool like <URL> to map various functions to the buttons on your generic 6-button mouse .
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
It seems like that behaviour was never been implemented in Firefox on OS X. See <URL> . But you can use Command ⌘ + Shift ⇧ + B to get to the bookmarks menu and there you can edit all bookmarks by right-clicking .
I find that 's Apple Safari behaviour.It use iPhone UA to get Mobile Webpage , that have Apple Touch Icon in link rel .
There 's no such possibility . App developer would need to implement this in the app . P.S. . You can open links from Facebook in Safari - > click " Share " when viewing the link and choose " Open in Safari " . <URL> Image from : <URL>
To rearrange columns alphanumerically by their names , assuming the column names are in row 1 , do this : Select all cells of the table . ( Click and drag from top left cell to bottom right cell . ) Click the thin arrow button next to the ' Sort ' button and choose . In the Sort dialog box , click , and in the pop-up , choose to . Back in the main dialog box , un-check ' My list has headers ' . in Row : select ; in Sort On : select ; and in Order : select . Click OK to execute . ( based on Excel 2011 )
To add an item to your Login Items : Open up the Accounts Preference Pane in System Preferences Click on your Account and the click on the Login Items tab on the right hand side of the window . Click the ' + ' button to navigate to the application or document you wish to open up on login . If you wish you can check off the " Hide " checkbox to hide the application by default after it launches during login .
I use <URL> ( Better Touch Tool ) which includes window snapping , as well as a whole host of other useful features such as extra multitouch gestures , and button management . You can use as much or as little as you want , but window snapping is on by default and just means you drag an application to the top to maximise it , left to align and fill the left half , and to the right for the right . EDIT : This is called BST ( Better Snap Tool ) and it is no longer free . El Capitan has an implemented feature ( press green button until you can drop it to the side ) or check other free tools like <URL> Update : As of Feb 20 , 2016 BST is $ 2.99 USD .
The black piece of cloth is not an envelope , but a nicely folded display polishing cloth . Apple mentions it in the manual : Cleaning the MacBook Pro screen To clean the MacBook Pro screen , first shut down your MacBook Pro and unplug the power adapter . Then dampen the included cleaning cloth with just water and wipe the screen . Do not spray liquid directly on the screen . You can confirm the looks on <URL> . And the long cable is just an extender which you can plug into your charger .
Simple answer is it 'll bring the window to the front . Apple + H hides the window however , so that might be a bit more useful to you .
Grab ( mouse click ) the item you want to drag from say the desktop or email . Hit on the keyboard to switch through the open apps you have running ( holding down continuously , and hitting repeatedly ) tell you get to the app you want to drop the file on . KEEP HOLDING DOWN ON THE MOUSE BUTTON WHILE YOU DO THIS . When the app you want to drag the item to is the foreground app , you should simply be able to drop ( let go of the mouse button ) the item you 've been dragging , and it should be copied or attached to that app .
The is located in your Folder . You can either navigate with the Finder to your Folder and drag it to your dock search in Spotlight and CMD+C lick the App . Your Finder will open and you can drag the App to your dock
The issue occurs when using iStat Menus v5 .2 ( or older ? ) on macOS Sierra . This issue is addressed in <URL> .
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
You can use the move tool by pressing Option + Space . The cursor will change to the hand that would allow you to scroll the content in all directions .
end question
start question
What is the difference between iPad and iPhone charger ?
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
Yes , the two models are physically different . The radio is different . As <URL> , the radio frequencies are n't the same . The verizon iPad supports Verizon LTE , and as per <URL> , AT&amp;T 3G . However , the Verizon iPad does not support all LTE frequencies that the AT&amp;T iPad does . From Apple.com : Wi-Fi + 4G for AT&amp;T model : 4G LTE ( 700 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Wi-Fi + 4G for Verizon model : 4G LTE ( 700 MHz ) ; CDMA EV-DO Rev. A ( 800 , 1900 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Notice that there are some differences between the listed frequencies . They 're nearly the same , but not quite . Edit : To confirm , the difference is a hardware difference , not a software imposed limitation on AT&amp;T LTE . From <URL> : The Verizon iPad hardware supports only the 700 MHz band for LTE to match the carrier 's technology , while the GSM version sold for use on AT&amp;T 's network supports both the 700 MHz and 2100 MHz bands as used by that carrier . If you 're looking to travel internationally , go with the AT&amp;T iPad . ( I got the Verizon iPad because I wanted the free hotspot feature , which AT&amp;T does not offer for free at this time . )
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
. command - ( Terminal shell script ) Specifically associates a shell script with Terminal . Sometimes referred to as a " Terminal File . " . tool - ( Terminal shell script ) Same as the " . command " file extension . . sh - ( Shell Script ) A basic shell script that is associated with Xcode 4.1 . Programmatically , I 'm sure the difference between the first two ( . command vs. . tool ) are subtle , while the third is essentially a simple , default shell script . And does in fact associate with Xcode 4.1 .
The radio frequencies and they respective power are regulated by official sources . In the USA , you will need to go to the FCC web site to get precise numbers for the radio power output . In order to search the <URL> , you will need the FCC ID of the device you want to lookup . All devices that use radio frequency spectrum are required to print their unique FCC ID on a label on the device . It may also be printed on a separate document that accompanies the device . Example for iPhone 4S WiFi radio .
The short answer is processing speed , screen resolution and memory . The newer ones are obviously faster , and the lastest generation ( 4g ) includes both front and back cameras for shooting video and video calling . For a full list of the differences check out this <URL> .
<URL> does exactly that . You can manage places through web interface or the iPhone app . Places marked with a star ( Saved for later ) will be displayed in Saved section in the app : You can rate and review places from the app as well .
is simply a <URL> version of the M3U format [ <URL> ] . ( files can have <URL> . )
System Version Number follows convention . From <URL> : Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH , increment the : MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes , MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner , and PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes . Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format . The number in brackets ( 14D136 ) is build number ( more info on <URL> ) . This number is mainly for Apple developers , since normal users do not have access to non public builds . In <URL> , new build can be made daily/weekly - every time build number is incremented . When developers/PMs ( or anyone else in charge ) is " happy " with the build it can be released . Build numbers are constructed arbitrarly ( I do n't know of any standard numbering ) . It looks like Apple increments first number by every MINOR release , then the letter with PATCH release and the last number is the real build number .
The only difference between those two categories is how iTunes groups things by default . In the Movies view , there 's not grouping . All movies are displayed alphabetically by default . In the TV Show view things are grouped by show -- so you get a single icon for each show and you drill down to access the episodes within the show .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
The ESP is normally used for the boot loader on ' normal ' EFI systems , however on a Mac the ESP is not -- it is usually empty , but has been used as a staging area for firmware updates . A Mac will initially look in the ESP for anything to boot from , but if it is empty or non-existant , it will look for the root file system to boot from .
More amps will not mean faster charging . The iPhone ( and any electronic device ) will only take as much current as it requires , and no more . The iPhone will take 1A to charge , and an iPad will take 2.1 A. There 's no harm in using a charger that is capable of providing more current than a device requires , but there 's no benefit either . Providing less current than the device requires will lead to longer charging times , or no charging at all .
As you 've pointed out , there is plenty of virtualisation software . However , the most famous are Parallels and VMware Fusion ( the other ones I have n't used , so I ca n't give you an opinion about them ) . In my opinion , Parallels is the more robust one and gives me the best performance . There are a lot of <URL> going one between both camps and there both apps have their ( dis ) advantages . For me , Parallels is the best way to go , because it has the <URL> For most people it 's a close race and they let the price decide . Both companies often hold special sales , so you should look for those kind of things .
As you 've noticed , the <URL> . This is by design . The 3G radio consumes less battery power . When does the iPhone switch back to 3G even if it has WiFi signal ? As soon as you wake the phone it will being re-enabling sleep-disabled services like the WiFi radio . If you were previously joined to a wireless network that is still within range your phone should re-join that network a few seconds after you wake it up . Here is where problems can crop up - a burp in your router or temporary interference can prevent the WiFi from rejoining and if your data coverage is fast enough , you may not notice you are now on paid 3G data . Especially if you are streaming video or playing a game and the menu bar is hidden . If will switch back to 3G if you tell it to forget the current Wi-Fi network it 's joined to and have it set to no auto-join any other known network in range . Or shortly after you put it back to sleep . Can I modify this behavior somewhere ? All of the Wi-Fi behaviour is set using the Settings app , under the Wi-Fi menu . You can turn the Wi-Fi radio off completely here . This will stop the phone from searching for wireless networks altogether and you 'll be running completely on cellular data services . ( See # 1 in screen shot ) You can set what the phone does if the Wi-Fi radio is on , networks are detected , but it is not currently joined to any of them . In this circumstance the phone can prompt you to join a network or do nothing and let you manually join a network if you so desire . ( See # 2 in the screen shot ) . You can also manually chose a network here . And , if you 're currently joined to a network , you can click the > arrow next to its name to get the details and , if you want to , " forget " the network and disconnect from it .
<URL> says the 13 " Retina Macbook Pro will happily run with two Thunderbolt displays . Although I have not used it first hand , I would not expect you to have performance issues running the two extra displays . The main retina display is actually drawing 4 times as many pixels as the external displays , and then scaling the image down , so a Thunderbolt display is not going to make much of a difference . As to the scrolling performance , I believe that was <URL>
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
end question
start question
Does a purchased iTunes song contain my Apple ID ?
Yes . Purchased . m4a files contain the purchaser 's name &amp; email address used in the related Apple ID . A quick way round it is to just re-encode them as AAC . With iTunes in Music view , My music right click the column header &amp; make sure ' Kind ' is showing . click that column to sort by Kind scroll to find ' Protected AAC ' songs . right-click/Get Info [ or ⌘ Cmd i ] then see the File tab [ iTunes 12 ] or the Summary tab [ iTunes 11 or earlier ] This will show the purchaser info . To remove ... Preferences > General > Import Settings ... Make sure it 's set to AAC Encoder ( &amp; iTunes Plus for better quality ) Then for each protected song ... right click or File Menu - Create AAC Version . Then delete the old protected versions . You 'll have to do that alphabetically , as in your current sort view , they wo n't show in the same place in the list . Examples of tagging before &amp; after re-encoding as AAC ... Incidentally , it was proved empirically back in 2007 that the audio itself contains no watermark . <URL> Before - from iTunes Store I 've blurred anything that could possibly be identifying After ...
The solution seem to be to stubbornly cancel the download every time you see it happening . After many times , somewhere in the Big Apple Mother Ship a sentient entity decided to stop trying .
If you log in to the iTunes Store with the same Apple ID , you can . Go to the Purchased section ( located in the sidebar on the main page ) and re-download any songs you wish .
Go to App Store or iTunes Store and scroll to the bottom , then pick your Apple ID . Select View Apple ID and log in with your current password . Pick Apple ID at the top and change your password , then press Done .
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
You ca n't , as Apple does n't provide this ability . From <URL> : You can not merge two or more Apple IDs into a single one . You can , however , use one Apple ID for iCloud services and another Apple ID for store purchases ( including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match ) . You can keep using all the old apps , but they wo n't update without the original password for the original Apple ID . In practice , you will eventually tire of the prompts or delete the apps in question . In the short term , you can use them all without needing the other account name or password .
Last night , I did a <URL> about the issue , telling them the above . They confirmed that those were the steps that they would have advised . They told me to phone their support line ( 0800 107 6285 , 08:00 -- 19:45 Monday -- Sunday in the UK ) , and ask for " multimedia " support . However , this morning , my purchased TV shows were suddenly showing up again , I guess about five days after they disappeared .
Workaround in iTunes 11 : Click on the Up Next button and press clear . It will stop after the current song regardless where you start the song from .
No - the playlists only get curated from the playlist tab . The iPods with physical buttons have an " add to playlist " functionality that worked this way but there 's nothing yet in iOS 4 or less to do a similar thing . The drawback there is everything got added to the " on the go " playlist - not an arbitrary one .
The default domain name for new Apple ID 's ( or iCloud accounts ) is . You can also use .
In iTunes , you can opt back out of sharing details by opening the preferences and selecting the store preferences tab .
optionenter ( shiftenter on Windows ) will add the selected song to the Up Next list ( in iTunes 11.0 , this does not work in album view , but does in all other views ) . However , iTunes will always ask you if you want to clear the previous songs from the list , so an extra keystroke is needed . There are one or two drawbacks to this method , firstly : It defaults to clear the previous songs so a simple enter will not suffice and a P keystroke is needed to add the song while keeping the existing list . Secondly : In addition the added song will default to the top of the ' Up Next ' playlist as oppose to when you click to add a song ( in this instance the added song will default to the bottom of the list ) . I 'm only running Windows so I ca n't say the same ( or similar ) is true for Macs .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
Any purchases that she made with the previous account are the biggest problem as they are non-transferable . This would include music and movies , as well as apps . Since you mentioned that she only downloaded free apps , it should n't be a monetary problem . Because updates will require you to login to the old account , it would probably be better to re-download the apps with the new account . That way updates are seamless and easy . iMessage ( or SMS and MMS for that matter ) should n't be a problem at all . All the old threads and messages should stay in tact and be usable like nothing ever changed . Call history is n't something that iCloud , or an Apple ID has anything to do with , so the change will also be without consequence there . Yes , change Apple IDs , create a new backup and you 're good to go . Side note : iPhone actually handles Apple ID changes very easily and smoothly . Some people have two Apple IDs in general - most by accident - and they will change back and forth for app/music/movies purchases .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
iTunes does indeed compress large images when syncing to the first-party Photos app on an iPhone or an iPad . It calls this process " image optimization " and it even gets its own progress bar when you sync your device . Currently , the solution is to use some other third party image vieweing app . <URL> , for example , can handle high resolution images , and there are many others .
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
The explanation I got from Apple is there is some maintenance being performed on an iTunes server this weekend , which is affecting AppleTV 's ability to authorize content . Even if you are streaming directly from your PC/MAC to the AppleTV , there is still some validation with the iTunes store that occurs . In the meantime , you can use Airplay to continue to stream content to your AppleTV . More info on using Airplay can be found here : <URL> .
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
If by reinstall the OS , you simply mean reinstall it and not run first-time setup , the resulting installation will not be associated with you in any way . If you intend to run first-time setup , obviously do not login with your Apple ID during that process , and of course do n't input any personally-identifiable information either . There is metadata in a receipt file in the installer file itself that is associated with your Apple ID . That is not transferred to the resulting installation , though .
end question
start question
How do I recover purchased music on my iPhone 4 ?
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
The iPhone 4 does not have a radio tuner . All it has is the appropriate cellular band , WiFi , and Bluetooth . In short , no there is no easy way to do this . Some radio stations make apps so you can stream their content via the internet , or offer live streams . I would check out the radio station 's website to see what they have available .
Yeah , <URL> . It 's also available in your language . As this probably leaves you with nothing seeing as you forgot both email and security questions , your second best shot is <URL> , which is also available for your country . Try to get on the phone with one of their advisors .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
This has now happened a couple of more times . I 've been able to resolve this the last couple of times by tapping the app back on the main screen ( ie not in the app store ) . The label below it changes to ' Waiting ' . Then tapping it again it changes the label to ' Loading ' or ' Installing ' and the update finally completes . I can then update other apps . Otherwise the only other solution is to delete and reinstall the app .
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
I found out the solution ! It seems the iPhone 4 can play back 60 FPS H. 264 videos up to 640px horizontal resolution . Anything beyond that gave me the dreaded format not compatible error when syncing to iTunes . 640x480 or 640x360 work great and boy are they lifelike . I successfully used QuickTime ( Export using MPEG-4 Video settings ) , and MediaCoder iPod Edition to convert videos to the 640xXXX @ 60 FPS H. 264 format profile as high as Main@L3.1 .
You can not rename ' Purchased ' - that is where all your ' officially purchased from Apple ' [ whether you had to pay for it or not ] music sits . You are free to make a new playlist &amp; copy any tracks you wish to it , exactly as you would for any playlist , on phone , pad or Mac .
There is n't a limit to this ( or there is n't yet a limit that is imposed by Apple ) ; you should be able to install iOS apps that you purchase on all your iOS devices ( obviously using the same Apple ID ) . From the <URL> : APP STORE PRODUCT USAGE RULES ( i ) If you are an individual acting in your personal capacity , you may download and sync an App Store Product for personal , noncommercial use on any iOS Device you own or control .
That is pretty bizarre . The iPhone 4 is <URL> for a total of 512MB , but it sounds like , for some reason , your phone is n't seeing one of them . Your numbers bear this out too - the iPhone hardware sets aside 9MB of the total memory , resulting in the OS seeing 503MB or , in your case , 247MB . Definitely take it in and try to exchange it or replace it .
In Finder , choose Go > Connect To Server ( command + K ) and type in the URL or IP for the server ( including the protocol if not afp ) .
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
I assume since it was a month ago that you had iOS 6 on there ? If someone found it and wiped it from scratch , your Find My iPhone will not work . In iOS7 , <URL> could prevent them from re-activating your phone if they found it , and you might have a chance to find something .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
After being told on the Apple Discussion boards that this ca n't be done , I found a solution . I re-entered all the original log in information into the account details . It took a bit to get them to stick , because iPad kept trying to verify the account , which it could n't do , because the legacy server was n't responding , but I finally got it . Once the I had the original credentials entered , all the original Inbox and Sent emails were back . One important key : Although I did n't change my email address , the new server did require a different username syntax . The old username was just " name " while the new username was " name@mydomain.com " . That little change is what caused iPad to decide it was an entirely different account .
All this hype about how to charge your batteries is blown out of proportion . Although some batteries ( I forget which types exactly ) can have longer lives if charged at " optimal " rates and temperatures , the reality seems to be that it does not extend the life by much . One of the research papers I read concluded something like if you charge your device at around 17 degrees from 0 % until 75 % full you can extend the lifespan by about 1/5 of the total life span . I have charged my devices for days at a time , and my iPod Nano has been plugged in for months , and holds a charge the same as my other nano ( I have two ) which almost never gets used and only charged ocasionally . In conclusion , just do whatever is convenient for you . EDIT : Here are some links to the apple pages related to their iPhone batteries : <URL> <URL>
Your wish is my command ! Homebrew Formula : <URL> I 'll try to get the formula merged into homebrew proper sometime this week . In the meantime , you can simply :
I 'm assuming there is nothing on the USB stick you need to recover , since you were writing over it with dd . Plug it into your macbook and if it shows up with in / dev as a proper device , you should be able to use dd to clear the beginning and end of the stick to make it look like a brand new USB stick . dd if = / dev/zero of = / dev/disk __ bs = 1024 count = 100 will clear the beginning of the stick . ( Be absolutely sure that you have the correct device id for the " of = " parameter !! Make sure it was n't there right before you inserted the USB stick into the computer . ) However , there may be a GPT partition at the end of the stick . To write to the end , you 'll probably want to use seek = with the number of blocks on the device minus 50 or so . Once those are cleared , you should be able to add a new partition table to the USB stick using the disk utility . If that does n't work , using the first form without " count = 100 " would overwrite the whole stick with zeros . That 's probably overkill , but at that point any system should recognize it as a new device
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
end question
start question
Is it possible to upgrade a Mac Mini to OS X Lion ?
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Since this topic popped up again , several months later , I 'll add a quick and impolite answer : No , you can not install 10.7 on any Mac that does not have an Intel processor . All releases of OS X starting with 10.6 require Intel processors .
Sure . Just make sure it is in a secure position so it does n't fall over . Apple actually has a support page on this : <URL>
Open System Preferences > Mouse to speed up or slow down the mouse . Go to System Preferences > Trackpad to change trackpad speed . I do n't believe acceleration is native to OSX . I have Kensington Trackball Works installed ( for my kensington trackball ) which has acceleration , and your Logitech Mouse center may have the same . If Logitech Mouse center is System Preferences chances are it will be under " Other " .
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
Yes it is for iPhone 3G and 3GS , but not for iPhone 4 as it uses a different bootrom . Just google " Android on iPhone 3GS " and click on the first entry , where you 'll find instructions on how to do it .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
If you 've successfully installed Fedora on a free partition , the rest is easy . Just download an ISO copy of <URL> and burn it with Disk Utility to a blank DVD . Then , while booting , hold down C after the chime to boot to rEFIt . It will give you the option to boot to Linux ( this is indicated by a Tux icon ) . Additionally , rEFIt is able to install itself to your system without a DVD boot every time , but I could n't recommend it as I had some issues with this personally .
Use , where is the name of the application you want brought to the front . If you already have a statement block for the target application you can use by itself within the statement block . Examples : Or : Also , if the target app is being opened from within a shell script , whether executed manually in Terminal or within AppleScript e.g. you can add an AppleScript command within the shell script using as in the following : Syntax : Example : Note : In Terminal , type and press enter , to display the BSD General Commands Manual entry for . From the AppleScript Language Guide : <URL> Brings an application to the front , launching it if necessary . As a good reference , have a look at <URL> and the following document is handy to have on your system , <URL> .
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
On Apple hardware , yes - <URL> . Otherwise , no - it 's a violation of the EULA .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
If you are in the US or Canada , you can call 1-800-MY-APPLE to order Snow Leopard directly from Apple telesales . It should only be $ 20 , a discount from the original $ 30 price . This will only work if you have an Intel Mac , of course .
In a word , no . If you are concerned with the contents of your machine being compromised should the machine be stolen a better bet may be to encrypt your drive with FileVault ( assuming you are or intend to upgrade to using Lion ) . Even if the firmware passwords was irreversible , it would not stop someone simply taking your disk out and reading another way . The only benefit I can see is preventing a theif from being able to ever use the mcahine he just stole , but frankly this wo n't help stop your laptop from being stolen in the first place , although it probably would result in it getting binned if it was , rather than re-used and potentially identified at a later date via it 's serial number etc. .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
end question
start question
How to use Scale Action to scale up an image in Keynote without loosing quality ?
I found two workarounds for this , but both are a pain . The first is to replace the scaled up image after the scale action completes . This works pretty well , but during the scale process you can see the loss of quality until the regular image replaces it . The second is more complicated , but produces better results : Start with small scaled version of the image ( image A ) where you want it . Apply any Build In animations on it . Have a full size image ( image B ) with the opacity set to 0 % . Have a Scale Action on the image B setting it to the size of Image A. Add a Opacity Action on image B to 100 % . Use a Disappear Build Out on image A . Then use the Scale Up Action on Image B to the new size you want it to be . This produces perfect results , but as you can see is very complicated . I created <URL> to show the steps and the results . <URL>
I suggest using a daemon like <URL> . Once you 've installed SleepWatcher ( ref . the README included with it ) , you can run commands like the following . The script will quit Mail , and the script will open it . You can save these as files and reference them from sleepwatcher , but ensure you run on them before you try running them . Otherwise , OS X wo n't recognize them as executable . Now , you have two options for loading sleepwatcher : you can manually run it , you can configure a LaunchAgent to do so . I like the latter , so create a file in named ( the name is unimportant , but I recommend you keep the formatting , the " com " and the " plist " ) . The file 's contents should resemble the following . As before , replace the script paths with paths to your shell scripts . To tell OS X to launch this agent at startup , run
The command-line utility gives you more flexibility , and is extensively documented in . Something like this should do :
A similar question to this is noted here <URL> They recommend using the ulimit command , but they were unable to successfully limit the amount to what they desired . I think the problem that they ran into was the fact that the option being set - u or - v was not accounting for the memory paging system , eg you can only allocate X amount of space for you process in real RAM , but we can page you out to virtual memory all day long . Note that this may be Dangerous disabling Virtual Memory , it could result in your Mac just locking up , etc when it runs of of RAM . Try running ulimit with arguments - l , - m , or - v however as noted in the ulimit man page it up to the OS if it will pay attention to these settings or not as noted . ulimit : ulimit [ - SHacdefilmnpqrstuvx ] [ limit ] Modify shell resource limits . Provides control over the resources available to the shell and processes it creates , on systems that allow such control . Ca n't really find any definite source that confirms if OS X ignores ulimit or not , but after the referenced ulimit fail If you can get ulimit to work for your needs by itself then give it a go , if not a combination of ulimit and or disabling virtual memory may be able to let you set up that 3 GB limit on select processes . FYI here is a good link for more information on <URL>
It appears the correct answer is I can not do this unfortunately .
Have you seen this other question / answer ? <URL> The Finder has built in video encoding and you could even use these to set up watch folders and attach a pre-set conversion using Automator if you found one setting that you prefer ...
When you 're on the Google Images page scroll all the way to the bottom . There is a choice there to use either Google Tablet or Classic ( defaults to tablet on the iPad ) . Click on classic and you should get the same options as on your mac/pc .
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
The reason for the " stuttering " could be a combination of different factors . First is of course your computer 's power and video card . The more power you have , the more the number of FPSs your computer can " record " . Despite that , QuickTime is not known for its " fast " recording , so I suggest you give a try to different alternatives . <URL> is a little bit " outdated " because some ( if not most ) of the applications mentioned have been updated and have fixed or changed some of the problems they had , however , it should be a starting point for your final QUickTime Replacement . <URL> has a very similar list , but rather than a review is a list with a short description of the products . For reference , the most important Screen Capture tools for OS X ( or to put it in another way , the " most used ones " ) are ( in no particular order ) : iShowU , Snapz Pro X , ScreenFlow and one that is missing from those lists ( because it 's a new player in the Mac world ) : Camtasia for Mac ( which I 've been betatesting and it 's quite good and in par with the ones I 've mentioned ) . Some features missing from Camtasia 1.0 have been addressed in an update and I know they are working on a newer version after getting tons of feedback in the Beta forums ( which I ca n't disclose because I participated ) . I 've personally tried those four I 've mentioned ( i have a Snapz Pro license ) and I think they more or less are the same , but some were ( when I tried them ) faster than others but lacked certain features . All in all , the " best " does n't exist , they all have strengths and weaknesses so your best bet is to give them a try and see if one does the job . Last but not least , remember that quality also plays an important factor in CPU overhead when recording , try to keep your CPU load low and reduce the recording quality as much as you can afford .
You could do that with <URL> : This will just change containers , but obviously will only work with a codec that ffmpeg supports . Edit : if you absolutely need a GUI , you could use Automator to create a Drag &amp; Drop target , like this :
Yes , you have to create a new account . You can do this from your computer or from your iDevice . You have to create it from the App Store , not the iTunes store . <URL>
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
Yup , you still can do it with Quicktime Player . Download it from <URL> . I believe you can also install it from the Snow Leopard install disc . I 'm not sure about the Lion install download . Open the movie and click File > Export : Then you can select Movie to Image Sequence : Set your destination folder and watch Quicktime Player do its magic .
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
A recipe for deploying iLife 11 using <URL> just rolled across my twitter stream , so almost all the credit here goes to <URL> for the recipe . It is available on github and lists the package names and checksums for verifying the install . <URL>
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
That is going to be tricky because any new usb wifi adapters are probably not going to have the driver support with the OS you are going to be using . ( If you are right about the model the maximum OS is 10.4.11 . ) <URL> and it looks like they are n't too expensive compared to newer adapters ( ~ $ 20 ) . That 's the solution I 'd use to get that computer online .
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
If you want to change the appearance of all the slides : While creating a new document , choose any template . From the menubar , select View > Show Master Slides . Select the layout you want to edit from the navigator pane on the left . On the Toolbar , click on Inspector ( " i " icon ) . Choose the second tab icon ( slide icon ) in the Inspector window . Click on Appearance . Here you can specify any background for the slide . It can be an image , a colour , a gradient or a tint . If you just want to change the appearance of the current slide , follow steps 4 to 6 . To change the style of text for all the slides : Follow steps 1 to 4 . Choose the capital " T " icon in the Inspector window . Select the text whose colour , font , etc. you want to change . In the inspector window , there are various properties like text colour , character spacing , etc. which you can change . You can change the font from the toolbar . To change the style of text for the current slide , just follow the steps without opening the master slide .
Check out " Brisk " , MAS link and screenshots etc here : <URL> , Youtube screencast demo here : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I enable fingerprint authentication on a Mac ? What compatible scanners are available ?
Yes - you will want to start with the <URL> source code or compiled installer that Apple publishes and then pick whatever device you like that integrates to this infrastructure . Here is Apple 's starting point and a few more links that may help you in your search for a biometric authentication solution : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Unless you have two radically different sets of data such as different OSs different filesystems OS testing installs multiple users requiring " hard " separation on the same computer a whole bunch of stuff you want to keep segregated for legal reasons I personally see very few reasons to partition your 128GB SSD , and a number of reasons to avoid doing so . One pressing reason to avoid partitioning a " small " drive : partitions " waste " space . I 'm not referring to the actual disk overhead lost to store the partition data , but the loss of usability when a larger contiguous chunk of space is broken into two or more smaller storage areas . If your single partition has 80GB of space available , the largest single file can be 80GB in size . If you partition your 128GB drive to split the empty space , each partition would have 40GB of room , thus cutting the largest file you could save in half . I use this extreme example to make this point : all partitions end us with some storage space that is " too small " to use . Every partition you add multiplies this loss ... And your SSD is not large enough to waste space this way . Speaking of " small " drives , performance tends to degrade as you fill a partition beyond 75 % or 85 % . Multiple small partitions tend to reach this percentage filled much faster than a single , larger one . In the early days of hard drives when the OS was effectively still built around floppy drives , there were real upper-end limits to the number of files or size of the logical drive . Partitions not only made sense then , but were mandatory to shoehorn newer and larger technology into existing systems . Today , those reasons are no longer pressing on our minds . Even with a MacBook Air , there is no speed advantage to limiting the number of files or size of a partition . Caching and indexing on OS X allow you to " find " , retrieve and open any file much faster than on platter-based storage . In most cases there is no problem housing multiple users on a single OS X machine . Each user is sequestered from the others and provides decent inter-user security and confidentiality . I suggest you look at your thoughts regarding partitions and utilize folders to replicate the storage functionality . Looking at my Mac Pro with a 64GB boot/application / " user " drive and a separate array with 6TB of storage , I have the following breakdown on the 6TB drive : documents ( not to be confused with ~ / users/me/documents ) company accounting files personal files family files music projects client project 1 client project 2 etc. . storage archived projects program install files movies I treat each top-level folder as if it was a partition unto itself .
Games Internet Explorer : If you are a web developer and want to test your website in IE ( which you have to ) . Also some corporate intranet applications work only on IE ( 6/7/8 compatibility mode ) . Microsoft Office : Yes , there is a version for the Mac , but some prefer the Windows version ( I remember reading sometime before somewhere , ( unable to find the link ) that the Windows version is better ) . Also , people like me who have a Windows PC ( my wife 's ) and a Macbook Pro at home , I can buy one Office Home and Student edition ( it comes with licence for 3 installs ) and use it on both . Learning Windows specific technology . For instance I want to learn C# . C# is best learnt in Microsoft Visual Studio ( IMHO ) . Games Games Games There was something else too ... oh yeah , games .
You are right . There is no way of setting preferred networks on iPhone 's iOS 5 .
Since Apple is using the same CPU and mostly intel logic boards , as long as you get the CAS latency and other details exactly perfect , it 's hard to imagine you would buy the wrong memory . Perhaps it boils down to support and testing . If the vendor literally spends more money testing and supporting the Mac memory , it 's their privilege to sell it for more . If they do n't and are just looking to maximize profit , that happens too . Look at Amazon charging different price based on who they think you are , what you have bought , etc. . . Same with airlines that charge different prices based on cookies set from previous flight searches . In the end - all that matters is you understand the return policy and how to test things once you get the RAM . Then it 's just a calculation , you estimate how much is your time is worth and you minimize your transaction cost - pay more for an easy buy that saves you time or spend more time looking for and researching a bargain . Perhaps the seller has decided Mac users value their time more highly and you can score a deal by saying you are buying PC RAM . Happy RAM hunting .
You can look at <URL> . It is an Exchange gateway and will allow you to read-write the Exchange calendar from iCal , or to use any email application with Exchange . Note that if your administrator allows IMAP access to your Exchange account , you do not need client support specifically for Exchange .
First of all , connect the adapter and reboot . In many cases , it will solve the problem . You need to reboot because the adapter is not hot-pluggable . For the same reason , if you remove and re-insert the adapter , it wo n't work until you reboot . If you still have difficulties , I 've found <URL> at Apple Store . Google " <URL> " . Select the <URL> . Install via device manager ( select location where you unzipped driver ) . Note , the PCI ID for this device 14e4 :1682 is not listed in Broadcom 's web page list of supported IDs . However the driver 's . inf does include the requisite matching for the new device ID . Hopefully , you can solve this with a reboot due to it not working as a hot-plug device , and each time you need to boot Windows with the adapter attached for the driver to load .
Here is the answer to your question : Go to System Preferences Select Accessibility Select Mouse &amp; Trackpad Select Trackpad Options Select Enable dragging withoug Drag Lock
I just ported MenuMeters for El Capitan , please go to <URL> .
You should read the big Siracusa 's Lion review in <URL> . The gist of it is , no , every time another program tries to access the file ( e.g. you 're trying to send it in Mail , upload it in safari ) what the other program will get is the current version you 're looking at . Nothing else . See more at this particular <URL>
Apple routers generally have no viable software you can customize . Other generic and third party routers often can be flashed and updates . It might be possible to get this working on routers that are able to run pared down versions of Linux ( such as <URL> or <URL> ) in place of their stock firmware . Linux can do AirPrint sharing of standard printers with a combination of CUPS and avahi ( Bonjour ) following instructions you can find <URL> . Some of the 3rd party router firmwares already have CUPS configured , and I suspect you could get avahi working on them as well , there may be a pre-built version , but you may have to compile yourself . Bottom line , given a compatible router , you should be able to do it , but it will require a fair bit of hacking and googling . There 's no turn-key solution that I 'm aware of , and of course this only works with routers that can use 3rd party firmware ( there 's a pretty good selection , but definitely not all ) , and Apple base stations definitely wo n't work unless Apple itself adds the functionality .
What I ended up doing was purchasing the used mac from a 3rd party vendor , that offered a basic 1 year warranty for no additional charge .
You can reinstall the OS back to the same version that it shipped with by using the restore discs that came with your Mac to wipe your disk and reinstall Mac OS X. However , just because Apple has officially dropped support for XP and Vista with Boot Camp does n't mean it will stop working - the most likely situation will be that new computers will have hardware that Apple will only provide Windows 7 drivers for . Existing hardware should be unaffected .
iHome should be releasing their iW1 soon , which they debuted at CES <URL>
This wo n't help with graphs , but for making molecular diagrams I highly recommend the open source <URL> , which is free for Windows , Mac , and Linux . It lets you create all sorts of molecules and export them as Java applets , images , or animations .
I found that on <URL> you can buy iLife ' 09 . If you look at the iLife '09 tech specs , you can see this : Software : Mac OS X v10 .5.6 or later . So that should work for you if you have SL . iLife '09 is also available on <URL> .
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
I have done this myself . First install REFIt , an utility for dual/triple booting . It adds a useful selection of OSes on startup . It also includes a EFI/MBR fixing tool which is very useful . You might need to restart 2 times . Using the Disk Utility , add 2 more partitions to your disk . Format them FAT or FAT32 . Restart your machine , and this time , assuming you have installed REFIt , instead of choosing OS X , navigate to the partition inspector ( the hard drive icon ) . Just apply the settings it suggests . Reboot your mac and put the windows 8 disc in . The setup will allow you to format the partitions . Format both of the partitions . Install to the first partition . After installing drivers ( optional ) etc on win8 , restart and install win7 to the other partition . Sometimes the Win8 will find Win7 installed and integrate the bootloader . That means that in REFIt , choosing either one of Win7/Win8 wo n't boot . Choosing Win7/Win8 from REFIt will give you the option to boot Win7 or Win8 . Hope this helps . NB : Your Windows partitions wo n't be named . REFIt wo n't know which is win7/win8 . Or you can name it when you 've installed the first Windows .
I do n't know if the built-in keyboard viewer is sophisticated enough , but it should highlight pressed keys . If you do not see those options , make sure it is checked off under your System Preferences > Keyboard There are also apps like <URL> that display bezel elements for pressed keys .
According to <URL> : You 'll need a working OS X partition and you 'll need to reboot with Option + Command + O + F . It is a bit complicated so follow the link for more info . I personally would go with Ubuntu on your Powerbook . Follow <URL> for info on how to install . Although the guide is for a Power Mac G4 , it should work with your Powerbook .
end question
start question
How do you copy a single word from an SMS ?
Sadly , you ca n't select a single word from a received SMS . You 're going to have to copy the whole SMS to a note ( Or to the " reply " input ) , then select the part you want from that note . That said , if the sent code is numeric , a user can directly copy it . iOS will interpret it as a possible phone number , and allow several options when the number is touched &amp; held down .
Not unless you use custom firmware ( Rockbox , iPod Linux for older models ) . The iPod depends on a database file for playing files and if you just copy the files over they will not be in said database and subsequently the iPod will not be able to play them .
There 's no way to do that , alas . <URL> shows an AppleScript that can make playlists from all complete albums , but if you have a lot of albums , it might be overwhelming .
In iOS 7 : Double tap the home button Scroll to the app you want to force quit Flick up on the app 's window .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
OS 3.0 and above allows you to email out up to 5 photos . Go to your Camera roll . Select the roll you want . Tap Share icon ( bottom left ) Tap each photo you want to send via e-mail ( you should get a red check mark in each photo > Share count will increase to the number of photos selected ) . Tap " Share Icon " again A pop up " e-mail " message will appear All the photos you selected will appear in your e-mail message to send .
It 's hard to say , considering we do n't have access to any material on it other than the website and the keynote . It 's likely you 've already reviewed all public material on the device . To quote the bottom of <URL> , emphasis added : Features are subject to change and may not be available in all regions or all languages . Requires iPhone 5 or later . I bet the watch ca n't even be activated without an iPhone . Due to power requirements of Wifi , I doubt the device will carry an 802.11 radio , preferring to get it 's data through the phone . ( This answer is entirely speculation and may be invalidated as we learn more about the device . )
Well , of course , it was a problem with me . The search results only appear after having typed the whole query and pressed enter , which is a different behavior than the single word search where the results are updated as you type . Somebody had a similar problem <URL> .
Like suggested <URL> , you can drag the search text from the URL bar into some plain text view . However , one can also directly drag it into a ( rich text ) email or chat message . Or into Google 's search field which is conveniently close to Safari 's location bar : ( In previous versions , you could <URL> ; in 2016 versions just drag the search text like shown above . ) After dragging into Google 's search field , the additional search text is already selected and focussed , ready for Command + C : ( In earlier versions , Safari 's location bar <URL> , and the URL in Google 's search input will be gray , not blue . In those versions one could first hit Tab after searching to go into Google 's search field , hit Delete to clear it , and then drag the icon . After that , the search field is ready for Command + C as well . ) The Share button to the right of the location bar can also share the URL , but probably only when messaging has been configured : As an aside : the Google URLs include a lot of irrelevant things , specific to your browser , language , etc. . Often , it 's enough to use <URL> , or for image search <URL> , but then one needs to change the spaces into plus-characters to ensure it 's clickable . ( And one also needs to <URL> other special characters . ) It would be nice if Google would provide some bare sharing link on its own site .
Try the <URL> first . It will move everything you need from your old mac . ( OS 10.6.8 or later ) Many applications have data in the / Library/Application Support folder or the ~ / Library/Application Support folder as well as prefeferences and other scattered support files that would all need to be moved .
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
<URL> should allow you to copy the music from any iOS device ( jailbroken or not ) onto a Windows or Mac computer . See <URL> support article for more relevant information .
I ended up buying the unlock service even though I did n't have the original sim card . Fortunately the unlock service was n't able to unlock the iPhone 5S so they refunded me my money . I ended up going to the mobile operator and explaining my case , and even though I was on contract and had recently bought the phone , they agreed to unlock it . I might 've been lucky or it might 've been some new law against locking the new iPhones , however the person in the other country was able to activate the iPhone after the unlocking without the original sim card . The carrier the iPhone was locked to was Telenor and was based in Sweden .
Create and save a property list like this as : Then quit and reopen applications to apply the changes . See <URL> or <URL> for more information .
Reply from Rovio , maker of the game : This feature has been done in cooperation with Twitter Inc. . Thus , players of Angry Birds Star Wars who have also Twitter accounts got the chance to post the info of their favorite characters on Twitter . Unfortunately we do not have any tool to disconnect Twitter from our game at the moment . However , you can use the ' manage account ' option in Twitter app and remove your account on Twitter before your children start playing the game , or disable the internet connection on your device . To log out of your Twitter account , launch the Twitter app and go to " Manage accounts " ( it 's the button next to the settings button on your Twitter profile page ) . Then remove your default account . When you wish to tweet again , just log in to the app and you 're good to go ! We are still working on developing this feature for future updates , so we apologize for any inconvenience this might cause . Hope you enjoy the game ! Best regards , Kalle Rovio Support Team
As far as I am aware there is no reference to wildcard characters in vcard . If Mac OS or iOS supported such feature it would not be supported by other devices . But you can add the 100 phone numbers by hand . I would recommend exporting the contact as a vcd file then add all the numbers by hand . Copy paste will be faster than writing them one by one in the Contacts app : And import it back .
Handbrake is a nice program that you can use to convert videos and DVDs . Since VCDs are nothing more than mpeg files ( with . dat ) extension , you can easily use Handbrake to transcode them to m4v . Handbrake also allows you to select which tracks you want to keep , although if each track is its own file , you may need to use MP4Box to merge them together . Handbrake is available at <URL> , and MP4Box can be downloaded from <URL> .
end question
start question
How to stop screen from dimming when watching video ?
You could use a software like <URL> to easily achieve your need : Caffeine is a tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Right-click ( or ⌘ - click ) the icon to show the menu .
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
As for your question , Is there anything new that has n't been done before , then one could be generous and say that the no-account-required and it-just-works is quite nice , as is the elegant use of front or rear cameras and the ability to switch between them , and the automatic landscape/portrait modes . That 's quite slick . But it 's not a competition-killer . On the whole , Facetime is the typical Apple feature -- very polished , but a limited feature-set , and only available to users on the exact same platform ( in this case , only iPhone 4 's , iPad 2 's and Macs ) . That alone limits the usefulness of the app quite a bit . For general-purpose video calling , there are general-purpose apps like Skype which do it better , and which even work over 3G ( if you 're lucky ) , and which are n't limited to specific Apple-only devices . I 'd recommend Skype over Facetime any day . ( Notice I did n't comment on the revolutionary issue either . )
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
It would appear that the trackpad itself was faulty . It 's unclear exactly how this fault developed , but I found that switching out the trackpad for another fixed the problem . I 've had no issues since .
Aha , in <URL> if you select Export as mp4 , there is a crop checkbox and some textfields where you can type in the number of pixels to be cropped .
As the GMail app is a third party app not built by Apple , it is not allowed to run in the background to check for mails . So closing the app stops it from checking for mails . However , it probably will still get notifications about new mails pushed from Google 's server . But this notification is not initiated from your phone . You can switch off notifications for the gmail app in the iPhones settings.app under notifications .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
It look like <URL> who is fighting this issue . That guy uses the same router ( Linksys WRT54GL ) as I do and just switched the WLAN channel to solve the problem . This does also solve the problem for me .
There is an extension that runs on Firefox that can easily snag that video . I use Firefox 20.0 with <URL> It does not work with Safari , but I 've tested the Facebook link for you and it will get you the entire 2 GB video file if you have a fast network connection . You will get an unsigned extension warning when installing the add-on , since the video downloader is n't signed by the developer . You also need flash player since it grabs the flash file .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
You can do it via an Applescript and run it as such : Dimmer : Brighter : You can save these as . script files and then run them from the CLI like this : You can also do it <URL> , but that requires more setup .
I had a couple of e-mail accounts still set up in Mail which no longer existed on my mail server . I disabled these in System Preferences > Internet Accounts , and since then ( which is admittedly only three minutes ) , I have n't been able to reproduce the bug .
With iTunes in foreground , either press ⌘ T or select View > Visualizer , choose the animation , and select View > Show Visualizer . The visual effect will change with the music : enjoy !
Under displays in system preferences there is a checkbox ( along with a brightness slider ) to enable/disable automatic brightness .
The shortcut CmdOptQ is for " Quit and Discard Windows " which will quit the app ' the old way ' , and not reopen the windows the next time it 's launched . So if you only need to suppress this functionality some of the time , this is a good shortcut to know .
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
If you have an external display attached with an external mouse/trackpad and keyboard , closing the lid will not put the machine in standby mode . You can keep using the computer with those devices . Check <URL> Apple link to read the official statement about it . Requirements for closed display mode : Power adapter External keyboard , mouse , or trackpad External display
I 've had this happen too . Solutions that occasionally work : Close the lid , wait for the ' sleeping ' light pulses from the front of the laptop , then reopen and try again . Type my password ( I have password protected sleep/screensaver ) and hit enter blind . Wait a few minutes Sleep the computer by hitting the power button once ( not holding it down ) , then waking it up . Swearing profusely Solutions that almost always work : Force rebooting .
end question
start question
Activity Monitor not showing correct memory usage ?
Most of the difference was marked probably memory marked as inactive . Any app can still use this memory , so it 's not marked as used by some process . For more info about inactive memory , see <URL> . Wired memory usually makes up a much smaller portion . This is memory used by the OS ; it is n't available to your apps . For more info , see the Apple article <URL> .
From a window : <URL>
<URL> should suit your needs . It costs $ 19 , but has a free trial available . Paying for the app gives you : No " nag-screens " , badges or overlays All functions , including the in-app deletion , are available Free updates Priority support by e-mail One license can be used on multiple Macs So registering is n't exactly required and there is n't a time limit , but there are some features that you do n't get with the free version .
<URL> and <URL> are your friends . A <URL> is due to bad memory management of the application . Basically , it allocates memory but fails to release it when finished . Therefore , as the application continues to run , it keeps allocating free memory until there is no more . The fact that certain browsers use more or less memory has nothing to do with there being a memory leak . Chrome likes to have individual processes for each tab or session ( more memory ) where Firefox does the opposite . Memory is cheap now so there is less of a need to be efficient , but there is a need for higher performance . The real issue is what to do about memory leaks - since most people do n't reprogram and self-patch a program like FireFox - you can quit a program that has leaks or just log out . Mac OS ( as well as most other operating systems ) then release all the leaked memory and return it to the system pool . Leaks happen , so as an educated user you can watch for them and tend to leaky programs as opposed to letting them run continually .
Those are desktop DIMMs , you want the laptop DIMMs . Try <URL> instead . or <URL> which starts a the Mac search below . 1600 would work , but it would n't be much faster as they would run at the lower frequency , but might have better latency .
This is a technology called <URL> those i5 chips support . It means two threads can run simultaneously on each core resulting in two additional virtual cores . OS X 's Activity Monitor only shows virtual cores , not physical cores . Likewise , a quad-core chip has eight virtual cores and that 's what 's presented in Activity Monitor . To sum it up : 1 CPU 2 physical cores 4 virtual cores ( 2 per physical core )
From what I can tell , wired memory belongs to the kernel , the innermost core of Mac OS X. It 's many layers removed from the icons in the menubar , which are just ordinary apps showing themselves in an odd way . Wired memory is used for some of the core functions of the operating system -- things like keeping track of all the applications on your system , or open files and network connections , or chunks of memory used by various drivers . The " page tables " that form a map of your system 's memory are also stored in wired memory , and a system with more memory needs larger page tables . I suspect that the memory used by the integrated video chips in most Macs is wired as well , but I ca n't find anything that says that outright . In any case , much of this information is needed to manage and access memory , and so it ca n't itself be swapped out to disk ! To understand why , imagine an enormous library . Think of , for example , the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford , which has eleven million printed items . There 's no way you could possibly fit all that stuff into a single building -- certainly not one in the middle of a university campus . So instead , imagine that the librarians construct a vast warehouse . ( The real Bodleian Library has about forty sub-libraries of various descriptions , plus storage for really rare books , but this is a thought experiment . ) Most of the books are kept in the warehouse , but anything that 's been used recently is kept in the library . If you show up at the library looking for a book , and it 's in the stacks there , you can read it immediately . If not , ask a librarian and the book you want will be transported from the warehouse and given to you the next day . The information in wired memory , then , would be things like the card catalog , keys to the book delivery trucks , and maps of the route to the warehouse . If you stored these things in the warehouse , you could never retrieve books to bring them back to the library -- so they must be kept in the library at all times , lest the whole system break down . Anyway , getting back to practical considerations : wired memory is basically used by your computer for internal bookkeeping of various sorts . You should n't worry about it . And do n't worry if you have lots of " inactive " memory and little " free " memory , either . Inactive memory is basically memory that Mac OS is keeping something in on the off chance it 's needed again ; if your system needs that memory for something else , it 'll be converted to free memory without any performance hit . To extend the library metaphor , imagine that the library keeps books that have been recently used in the stacks . The space is there in the stacks ; there 's no use leaving it empty , so you might as well keep the books you already have there . There 's no harm in it , and sometimes someone will be able to pick up a book immediately that he would otherwise have had to wait for . Similarly , inactive memory can only speed things up ; it ca n't hurt your computer , so do n't worry about it being too high . Really , you should n't worry about your memory use unless wired + active starts getting close to the 8 GB in your computer . That 's when you could get into trouble , because that 's when Mac OS will start consuming disk space to add " extra " memory , damaging performance considerably . Otherwise , you might as well have something in that memory . Ultimately , unused memory is just a waste of power -- if you have it , you might as well put it to use .
I do n't know any extension like this one , but I 've used <URL> which works really fine . It 's a small app in your menubar and gets the job done .
If these applications offer the ability to Hide the Dock Item , and live only in the Menu Bar , then they will not show up in the Command + Tab switcher list . Review the preferences within each application to see if this feature is supported . Last I knew , there were no stable solutions for hiding Dock Icons without adverse application affects . I have numerous applications that live in the Menu Bar only , and most have an option to show it if necessary : Alfred , Sparrow , iMenuMeters , Divvy , Last.fm , Flux , Little Snitch , and Tunnelblick .
It has moved to a little different location . To access the same screen , go to : Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud Usage > Manage Storage Moreover , iOS9 now has a search function inside " Settings " . A user can search for a term , such as " Usage " in the search bar to access the corresponding settings .
Nothing is going to look as good as a Retina display . If your display seems like it should be sharper make sure you are running that display at it 's native resolution . Scaling the display to non-native resolutions can make even the best monitor look pretty bad . That said I run my MacBook Pro 's retina display at it 's maximum resolution of 1900 X 1200 because it still looks sharp to my old eyes , even with scaling on .
I decided to go with <URL> following installation guidelines from <URL> .
I had a conversation with Apple Tech Support yesterday regarding this issue , which I also find frustrating . The answers I got simply deepened and widened my frustration . This behavior was a conscious decision on the part of the programmers . The logic went something like this . The Activity window is a diagnostic therefore if someone wants to view it , they will want to view it in front of other windows anyway . They kindly left us with a Command +0 option to toggle its display on and off . I let them know that there are various functions that I use as diagnostics and I like to keep them where I can see them at a glance but where they do not interfere with my work . I let them know that I have always had the option to toggle the display on and off and that I also have always had the option to see the window in front of all others , all I had to do is click in it and it immediately came forward . What they did is to make a decision on my behalf that reduced my options and that is a way of thinking that I do n't appreciate . If they want to give me more options , that is fine but a decision to reduce options is usually a poorly thought out decision . I am still looking for a solution through the terminal that might allow me to regain my previous functionality . They were not forthcoming in this area . They simply said that at this point , we can not do it . Not a very good answer , certainly not the one I wanted to hear but I suppose having the answer , like it or not , is helpful in a way . Now I can dismiss the thought that it was an accident and decide how much time I want to invest in working around their poor thinking .
No there is no way to accomplish this . From Apple - <URL> You close the Exercise ring when you reach the globally recommended 30 minutes of exercise per day . And you do n't even have to do it all at once , which means you 're more likely to fit it into your day . From all searches I have performed I have not found any possible way to change it and the above quote suggests that 30 minutes is the amount Apple has fixed on ( the call it " recommended " ) .
If it 's Safari 5.1 you 're in the same boat as a lot of people . The recommended suggestion is bail out and go to Chrome , but I like Safari so I 've stuck with it . I 've completely removed Flash from my system ( I sandbox it in Chrome ) , I trash Safari 's cache once a week , I completely shut Safari once every 4 hours , and I never have more than 10 tabs open at once . That keeps it relatively stable , but I 'm probably going to move to Chrome as it 's a bit much for one app .
How about something simple in your crontab ? Which will , on a daily basis , append to the file drive_usage . log in your home directory with the date and time the job ran . Change @daily to @hourly or @weekly if you want different sampling rates . Sample output : If you want more information you might want to use something like fs_usage ( 1 ) which provides a truly astonishing amount of detail and must be run as root .
The Airport Express/Extreme allows monitoring via SNMP if you enable it via the Airport Configuration Utility ( version 5.6 ONLY ) . Apple removed advanced configuration parameters from Airport Configuration Utility 6.0 . <URL> to get a full access to all configuration parameters of your router . SNMP configuration is located under Advanced settings . From there , ANY snmp polling engine can get traffic as a whole . You would be hard-pressed to find anything that could differenciate traffic between devices that is n't a real router ( Cisco , etc ) or custom built Linux box . I just found this during a quick serach : <URL> via <URL> allows you to monitor any SNMP device with a pretty interface .
Discharging the battery once in a while ( every few Months ) is not a must but does help calibrating , for the system to be more accurate waring you on low levels . Over time charging and discharging creates a more inaccuracy of the actual level . For example if you plug in at 40 % , unplug at 80 % and so on . The reason is that the system uses the last known battery charge to produce the % , thus assumes the battery charge level . However if the battery was not discharged for long time , the remaining charge could be wrong ( due to batter aging ) . Discharging to not less than 20 % once in a while helps the accuracy . Since there is a opposite effect ( to frequent full discharge ) will shorten the battery life , you should only do this every few months .
You can try this way : App Store > Updates > Purchased View the apps you deleted Find the app which about the same size with NULL app or version that match to the " Null " version Download the app again Remove it again and delete the cache Hope it works for you .
Several built in tools exist to assist with this sort of thing , but many of them are intended to help people with limited vision etc , whereas I understand that you want to hear particular words etc possibly as a learning tool . You can still configure certain settings to help you do this . In you can use to read out all screen interaction , allowing you to also perform a quick 3 finger down swipe across text to have it narrated to you . There are various options for altering the lnaguages and dialects , the voice pitch and quality etc , but it does all tend to compromise using your device for anything else unless you are of limited vision etc. . In the same area , there is also ; this is far more subtle , allowing you to select any text via the usual techniques , to which the option to the selection is added , and you can configure various options as per the screenshot below . This latter method is ideal for speaking snippets of text because it is a system tool , and will allow for the technique to work in any app in which you can select text . The downside is that it is intended to be an accessibility tool for visually impaired people , and the pronunciation of the text is still very much " computer speak " , resulting in some words being pronounced oddly or even incorrectly as all the narration is being synthesized rather than using a base of real natural language to form words . In the same text menu , you also have the , allowing you to pull up a dictionary definition of the word . I 've never been able to make any sense of the pronunciation hints in dictionaries that appear next to names , but if you can , then here it is to see ( You can also change dictionaries if appropriate , you should be prompted to download one if you do n't already have one ) As for 3rd party apps , I do n't know of any that are available which have the specific purpose of reading aloud content with a primary purpose of pronunciation , this sort of tihng often requires large and complex databases containing snippets of genuine voice recordings which can be cut together to read aloud text with a far more natural sound that many of the simpler synthesized techniques as per above .
end question
start question
What are some good . mbox viewers / editors for OS X ?
Apple Mail allows importing from . mbox files ( see the import option in the File menu ) . I do n't know how well it supports the other requirements you 've listed but it might be worth a try .
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
See my <URL> on whether you can actually use the RAM and how to check how much RAM your computer is using at the moment . It may be the case that you are n't even using what you currently have . With regard to the RAM voltages , I 'm not sure why they would be different apart from the sticks being slightly different designs . You would be best off matching the sticks you buy to whatever voltage your current RAM is though .
Is the disk image compressed ? If so , then the . dmg file is probably going to be about 2 or 3 times smaller than the data it contains . When you mount the image , you can do Get Info on the mounted volume to see the volume size , which is how much space you will need on actual media . Even an uncompressed image file may be smaller than the volume it contains as the image file may not include unallocated space .
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
Personally I go with OWC . They are more famous for all Mac related upgrades . Here is the memory upgrade link <URL> Main advantage is you can choose RAM based on your model / make of the year etc. . .
Automator helps you automate ( pun intended ) repetitive actions without requiring programming knowledge . The basic building blocks of Automator are Actions . Each Action does a sigle task , that may take an input and produce an output . Automator lets you create a sequence of Actions , called Workflow . If you are familiar with UNIX it 's like a UI for pipes . Here is an Automator Workflow I use a lot , especially for downloading lecture notes in PDF from my professors ' sites : Creating <URL> is another feature I find useful . Also , you can combine the power of AppleScript with the simplicity of Automator with the " Run AppleScript " Action . As an example of both techniques , you can check out this service that <URL> . If you need more information about Automator check this <URL> . If you are a developer and want to create new Actions or need more insight into Automator , check out <URL> and the <URL> .
I believe that you 're not asking in the wrong place , you 're really not asking a question . What you define like " The Good Docs " is completely subjective . The guide you linked clearly says : Important : This document is intended for use by security professionals in sensitive environments . Implementing the techniques and settings found in this document impacts system functionality and may not be appropriate for every user or environment . If you 're using this guide , you should be an experienced Mac OS X user , be familiar with the Mac OS X user interface , and have experience using the Terminal application 's command-line interface . You should also be familiar with basic networking concepts . Some instructions in this guide are complex , and use could cause serious effects on the computer and its security . These instructions should only be used by experienced Mac OS X users , and should be followed by thorough testing . So clearly these " good " documents are not that good for everybody . In any case , Spotlight does n't index / System because that could be a security problem on its own ( it would need permissions to do that , a set of permissions that you do n't want to give to a userland daemon running all the time , with access to a UI ) . Why would a regular user want to keep an index of / System remains a mystery to me , it only has things that are for the System and not for the user to find and manipulate . You can , however , use the terminal to touch that if that 's what you want , but no user should ever attempt to land in / System , it can only break so many things ... Where did you get the idea that / System is the most important place to keep an eye on files ? Spotlight is a tool to keep an eye on files ? The place to keep an eye on files is in your very own / Users/YourFolder , because that 's all the access you should have ( to write that is ) . Spotlight is an indexing/searching tool , not a tool to monitor files that may seem suspicious in reserved system places . All in all , if you still want those docs , I 'm sure that most of them will be available in the developer 's area of Apple 's website . ( developer.apple.com ) . You can create a free account and start from there . On the other hand , if you are a " security professional " then you are using the wrong tools for your job . Spotlight is ok as it is , if anything , you might want to restrict it . I 'm sure that if you make spotlight run as root it will eventually index that , but of all the possible ideas that come to my mind , that is probably one of the worst security ideas ever conceived . There 's a reason why root user is disabled by default , there 's a reason for sudo and there 's a reason for normal accounts . Use them wisely , use them in peace .
Games Internet Explorer : If you are a web developer and want to test your website in IE ( which you have to ) . Also some corporate intranet applications work only on IE ( 6/7/8 compatibility mode ) . Microsoft Office : Yes , there is a version for the Mac , but some prefer the Windows version ( I remember reading sometime before somewhere , ( unable to find the link ) that the Windows version is better ) . Also , people like me who have a Windows PC ( my wife 's ) and a Macbook Pro at home , I can buy one Office Home and Student edition ( it comes with licence for 3 installs ) and use it on both . Learning Windows specific technology . For instance I want to learn C# . C# is best learnt in Microsoft Visual Studio ( IMHO ) . Games Games Games There was something else too ... oh yeah , games .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
One of the best applications is <URL> ( 40 $ ) by Red Sweater Software . It supports many blog types ( including Tumblr ) , and allows both HTML and Rich Text editing . I think it also allows editing Wordpress pages and not only blog posts . It handles image uploading , editing of posts and supports multiple blogs . Some of the cons of MarsEdit are its HTML editing shortcuts and macros which are a little uncomfortable and a bit too little . If you 're comfortable with HTML , then the known <URL> text editor can also be used as an editor for blog posts and then you can either copy/paste from there or use a blogging bundle which will let you upload from there . TextMate can also show you live preview of your HTML in a separate window . Of course , being a specialized application , MarsEdit is more feature rich in the blogging sense but TextMate has a better editor ( obviously ) .
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
This answer will be short : <URL> . Has everything you need except the rotation . It 's a media player , not a video editor . To alter the playback speed in VLC : Go to to → . You can also alter the playback speed using ⌘ = and ⌘ - . For rotation , as user <URL> notes in the comments below , you can go to - > → → . Bonus : A list of some <URL> for OS X.
From the article at <URL> Press Command-Option-Esc to force quit , it brings up a dialog so you can choose which app to quit . Command-Option-Shift-Esc for three seconds will force quit the front-most application . Here is another helpful article : <URL>
I 'd like to point you to the following <URL> . Open up Automater and select " Service " in the " Choose your type for your document " Dialog . Afterwards use the apple-script in the linked answer and you can now run the service via : Finder -- > Services -- > Create new File Setup in Automator : Create new file in service menu of finder :
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
These are U + fb01 and fb02 , Latin Small Ligature Fl and Fi . They are in Unicode really only because they were contained in legacy 8 bit character sets like MacRoman , but should no longer be used for anything . In modern technology such ligatures are created by fonts on the basis of the underlying codes for the separate characters , which is what should aways be input in place of option shift 5/6 .
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
end question
start question
Can I get iTunes to show all songs with an error status ?
You can add the columns iCloud Status and iCloud Download and sort song lists by those criteria . All songs that did n't upload will include the missing tracks so you can clean them appropriately . You could also attack the inverse problem . Make sure everything you care about is in the iCloud and matched . Once that process is complete , you could turn off iTunes Match on that computer , quit iTunes and archive the entire music folder . Then you could delete the library folder and start with a fresh library and turn on match to restore all playlists , metadata , play counts , etc. . . At that point , you could decide to re-import some or all of the songs so you do n't need to download all the music again , but most with broadband are happy to just re-download what they need rather than have everything in one place . I have done this exact process , and when I go to iTunes and select a track I want to delete , the following dialog pops up : If you are not getting that dialog , then I can only presume some other corruption is present in your Library .
You ca n't , Spotlight stores the search index in the root folder of the volume . When the volume is disconnected , you can not get search results from it .
Yes , you can add the second Mac once the first has completed . While one is currently uploading , I think the others can only be linked and start viewing .
If I understand your question correctly , in the ' music ' section , sort by date added , select the six albums worth of songs and create a New Playlist from Selection ( Cmd-Shft-N , or right-click on selection ) . From that playlist , you should have the view you want .
I created an Automator application that does what you 're looking for . You can download it <URL> . It 's pretty simple , just drag-and-drop any folder onto the application , it will then find all images in the folder and any subfolders , and prompt you for a destination to copy them to . If you 'd prefer to activate it by a hotkey or the right-click menu , you can make it into a service by following these steps : Open the application in Automator . Choose File → Convert To ... and select Service . Change the first drop-down at the top to folders . Save it and give it a name . Optional : open the Services menu within Keyboard Preferences . You can assign a keyboard shortcut there . Once you 've done that , you should be able to activate the service by right clicking on any folder , or hitting your shortcut key with a folder selected .
According the <URL> for iTunes Radio : There may be some DJ-curated stations that you may not be able to modify . You ca n't like or play more tracks like this while listening to some DJ-curated stations . You can however , start new stations based on the current track or artist of a featured station or add tracks to your iTunes Wishlist from the Star ( ✭ ) menu .
Create a smart playlist and use " kind contains protected " as the first rule .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
Use a Smart Playlist . These are playlists that are dynamic and can be built off filters on track metadata . To create a new Smart Playlist select ( or Opt-Cmd-N ) and then set the following options to build a Smart Playlist that always contains all the tracks that are from 1969 in your library : If you wanted to limit it to a specific genre from 1696 press the + button to add another filter criteria and pick a genre like so : You can filter in all kinds of ways -- Smart Playlists are incredibly powerful .
I do n't know if by " Today 's View " you actually mean the iOS 9 " Todays View " or the Calendar Widget . To activate the Calendar Widget scroll to the end of your Notification Center and touch " Edit " and add the Calendar Widget . Now , regarding how the info of your next appointments on the Calendar Widget will look like , it depends on how you present them on the actual Calendar App . As you can see in the pictures bellow , on the left you have a relative presentation of the events and on the right an absolute presentation . I hope this clarifies things a bit . <URL>
From <URL> Apple Support article you can do it from your account . If you find you have reached 5 authorizations , you can reset your authorization count by clicking Deauthorize All in the Account Information screen . The process works as follows Click iTunes Store in the menu on the left side of iTunes . If you 're not signed in to the store , click the Account button , then enter your account name and password . Click the Account button again ( your ID appears on the button ) , enter your password , and then click View Account . In the Account Information window , click Deauthorize All . Also note the following : You may only use this feature once per year . The Deauthorize All button will not appear if you have fewer than 5 authorized computers , or if you have used this option within the last 12 months . If you need assistance on using this feature please contact iTunes Store support via email .
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
No - since the IPA file only contains the compiled project , the source code ca n't be obtained from this . Certain iOS apps are open source - you can obtain the source code for those apps separately .
Where is the iTunes library directory ? What is its filesystem location ? Go to iTunes > Preferences ... Choose the Advanced tab . There you will find the path to your iTunes folder . If I move my library from the laptop and to an external USB-connected drive , will my music and TV shows still play ? Yes , if iTunes knows where to find them . See following question . I 'd like to keep some of my music on the local drive so I can actually listen to it when I 'm out and do n't have the external drive with me . Is there a way to do that ? Under the Advanced tab in the preferences , make sure Keep iTunes Media folder organized is checked . Choose Change ... next to iTunes Media folder location to choose a new location on your external drive . Then click OK . Now go to File > Library > Organize Library , select Consolidate files and click OK . iTunes will now copy your files to your external hard drive . The files on your internal drive will be retained . Go to your original iTunes Media folder on your internal drive and drag it to the Trash . Do not empty the trash before making sure that you can quit and relaunch iTunes and play songs without any trouble . Now move any music files you want to be on your internal drive to a folder on your internal drive . When you move these files , iTunes will not be able to find them , as iTunes will look for them in the folder on your external drive . This will result in dead listings with exclamation marks if you try to play them . See this answer to remove dead listings : <URL> . Now go to iTunes > Preferences ... and to the Advanced tab again . Uncheck Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library . Choose File > Add to library ... and select the media files that you moved to your internal drive . Cheers . For the record , it is also possible to have more than one iTunes library and choose which one to load when starting iTunes . The above solution allows you to have one library with files at different locations .
[ edit after more research ] You can use Applescript to turn on and off the dock 's autohide . You ca n't use Applescript to determine whether you have open/visible windows . This is because Applescript treats each application as an object , and some applications handle windows differently , meaning they ca n't all be manipulated or detected . I have n't even been able to find an applescript that can reliably count open windows , and there 's absolutely no recent documentation on how to handle spaces with applescript . From within the Script Editor , select File > Open Dictionary , and you will be presented with a list of applications that have dictionaries of scriptable objects &amp; behaviors that you can access . You want to select System Events and search for " dock " . The dock preferences object has the property autohide , which looks like a good bet to do what you want : i.e. turn on autohide when there are open windows , and turn it off when there are n't . You can find more information about what 's available by looking through different dictionaries and reading the documentation . <URL>
I have found a suitable work around that I have been testing for a couple of days . While using iCal on a Mac running Snow Leopard , I needed to add an account to iCal . This account would point to iCloud and sync with it . So , open Preferences and select accounts , enter the add account window by hitting + . this takes you to : You need to choose CalDav and enter your Apple ID email address ( not your . me.com email address ) enter in your password and the server name which in most cases is Once this has been added you will need to uncheck some of the calendars in the ' on my mac ' menu .
To select a continuous grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Shift key , then click the last one in the group . To select a random grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Command ⌘ key ( on a Mac keyboard ) or Windows key ( on a Windows keyboard on a Mac ) , then click the next one and so on until all are selected . You can let up on the Command ⌘ key or Windows key in-between selecting however make sure you press it before selecting the next one or it will break the grouping and you 'd have to start over . You can deselect by pressing the Command ⌘ key or Windows key , then click the one ( s ) to be removed .
Go to Settings ; Tap on > > , then swipe across and tap the delete button that appeared . That should delete all your local music .
As far as I know , there is n't a limit . As long as the account is associated with the device , then any apps from that account can be put onto that device . If you own more than one device , you do n't have to purchase the app again . You could own one hundred iOS devices and pay for just one app .
end question
start question
Lion server - networked logins ?
The following links will be helpful in getting you started with OS X Lion Server . Without knowing exactly what your client setup is , I simply provided general information in regards to OS X Lion Server . Hopefully it is organized in a fashion that is beneficial to you . Standard Server documentation <URL> <URL> ( Nearly everything needed for basic management ) <URL> <URL> <URL> Apple 's new Profile Manager <URL> <URL> <URL> ( outdated , but helpful | also applies to business ) Admin tools are still available <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Step by step ( very simplified ) <URL> <URL>
I think this issue is specific to Lion . You ca n't even get to the info screen for an Exchange calendar , to make the colour choice shown in the screen shots here . Googling , I turned up the following Applescript to accomplish the task :
You can install any drive , provided it 's of the 2.5 " variety ( notebook disk ) . <URL> can purchase ( see image below ) , or you can readily just buy the flex cable ( PART # 922-9560 ) . I purchased mine from <URL> and a few dollars shipping/handling . The iFixit kit includes the logic board puller , but I used two small screw drivers , which work just the same . If you have no qualms about spending the extra dough for what is likely a one-time affair , then by all means . Do note that you can pick the grommets from Home Depot ( they are 1/4 " grommets ) on the cheap . I had to shave a bit off to make them thinner , but they work beautifully . The screws are standard " <URL> " . 8mm M3 with a 0.5 mm thread . The ones provided in the iFixit kit are not OEM , but just aftermarket screws that meet the dimensions . In any case , the grommets and screws are not entirely necessary as the limited room stops the drive from thrashing around . And since the unit is likely to stay stationary , not a large concern . It depends entirely on the level of craftsmanship you possess . <URL> has a thread outlining the process , and that can be supplemented with <URL> . One thing to note , after you 've installed the drive , reset the <URL> to ensure a problem free experience . I had data on my secondary drive and saw my boot sequence lengthened to minutes as a result . Resetting the unit 's PRAM did the trick . The entire process took me about 1 hour , but it all depends on your level of proficiency . While adding the second drive is possible without removing the logic board , you will not be able to align the screws with the chassis ( and will crush the grommets in doing so ) . You 'll also wrestle 3x as long trying to get the SATA cable connected . There is literally not a mm to spare inside the unit . If you want to do the job right , you will need to take the mini apart and systematically install the drives one at a time so the holding screws line up with the grommets , the rest is a cakewalk .
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
The caching server will print to log when a client requests an update . This log is located at : The following is the anatomy of a request which was served by the caching server 's cache : Client requests update package Find cached package in server data Check/load asset in cache Serve asset to client from cache This is what shows the update was entirely served by the caching server . Finish
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
You can use <URL> , which allows to connect to a FTP server through a filesystem device . MacFusion requires <URL> , or <URL> with the compatibility layer for MacFUSE . Mount files and documents as a " Volume " in the Mac OS X Finder . Work with your files using your favorite Mac OS X applications directly . No manual upload or download needed ! Support for SSH ( Secure Shell ) and FTP ( File Transfer Protocol ) servers . Uses your machine 's native configuration for SSH , including support for private keys and custom settings . Quickly connect to a any server using the Quick Connect dialog , accessible from Macfusion 's optional menu item .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
The short answer on how to enable sshd from the terminal is doing this : The long answer on how to execute daemons or scripts on startup is a bit longer . There are two ways ( that I know of ) to do this : The first one is through Startup Items , which are executed at the final phase of bootup , these are deprecated and should n't be used unless you need compatibility with MacOSX v10 .3 or earlier . You can take a look at how to do it this way in <URL> . The second one is launchd , a replacement for init and rc ( among others ) . This is the recommended way and it 's a bit trickier than just putting a script on a folder like in Linux . There are several ways to launch daemons , the preferred way it to launch them on demand ( so they will be ready to launch but you wo n't see them in a ps for example , unless you are using them ) . The explanation is a bit lengthly and the list of options is long , you can take a look at the documentation <URL> . You can take a look in / Library/LaunchAgents for examples , if you have Chrome installed , there is a file in there for the Google Software Updater called com.google.keystone.agent.plist , that runs at load time , you can start there .
No the Messages app wo n't work as an IRC client . You have to use another app . <URL> you can find a list of good apps supporting IRC .
<URL> has a great tutorial of Mac OS X Server . I 'm still going through it myself . It is massively helpful .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
The only application I can think of is <URL> ; its purpose is to use an iPone/iPod/iPad as mouse to control a Mac . One of its features allows to have some icons on the iPod/iPhone that invoke some applications on the Mac ; by default , the icons shown on the iPod/iPhone are the ones that appear in the Dock , but you can select a directory containing the applications or the scripts you want to execute . The last screenshot shows the list of icons shown when I select a directory containing other directories ; when you hover over an icon , the application shows the icon name , in the same way the Finder does . The icons with an indicator light are running applications . The server application is available from the App Store , while the application for iOS is available from the iTunes App Store .
Short answer : no . The i7 in the new 2011 Server model does n't support anything less than pretty much the original OS . Sorry dude . I wanted to do the exact same thing .
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
Yes pretty much anything that can do a boot-able backup of Mac OS X , should be able to do a back up of Mac OS X server . There are very few differences between Mac OS X , and Mac OS X Server , as demonstrated by how apple does Lion Server . Download and install Lion Download and install Lion Server Apps So in this case and as always with OS X server Apple just adds some more Applications that the client version lacks . Additionally , <URL> confirms it works with Server .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
What you can do is to check if you are running the right build . It 's just to check that you are not still running the developer preview . Lion is free for developers anyway , so that might be the reason you got it for free .
Checkout XTrafinder - google for it and download it from the source of your choice ... It can be found <URL> . From the website : XtraFinder add Tabs and features to Mac Finder . • Tabs . • Dual Panel &amp; Dual Window . • Arrange folders on top . • Cut &amp; Paste . • Global hotkeys . • " Copy Path " , " Show Hidden Items " , " Hide Desktop " , " Refresh " , " New File " , " Copy to " , " Move to " , " New Terminal Here " , " Make Symbolic Link " , " Contents " , " Select ... " , ... . • Light text on dark background . • Colorful icons in Sidebar . The nice thing really is that it extends finders usability .
end question
start question
Can I make push notifications for some email addresses only and not others on my iphone ?
Go to Settings > Mails , ... > Fetch New Data > Advanced From there , you can chose how to get new email from each account . It could be push , fetch ( every X minutes ) or manual ( only when you open the app )
See my <URL> on whether you can actually use the RAM and how to check how much RAM your computer is using at the moment . It may be the case that you are n't even using what you currently have . With regard to the RAM voltages , I 'm not sure why they would be different apart from the sticks being slightly different designs . You would be best off matching the sticks you buy to whatever voltage your current RAM is though .
Open Mail.app , then go to Mail in the top menu > Preferences > Viewing > Uncheck " Use Smart Addresses " . This should display the full name of the contact plus the email address .
I can only say that this is true . Mail.app has to be open to get notifications . A workaround : Open Mail , and close it with the red dot ( or command + w ) . So the blue point under the icon in the Dock is still there . So you have no window open but mail is still getting emails . There is no app or anything there yet to fix this " problem " .
You can effectively turn off push notifications for a particular email account ... sort of . Go to the Settings app , and hit " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Go to " Fetch New Data " , then scroll down and go to " Advanced " . For the email account whose little red badges you do n't want , change the setting to " Manual " instead of " Push " . This will prevent new messages from pushing a notification icon to the home screen . However , when you open the Mail app to check your other email , the app will sync the " Manual " account with the server and you 'll get a badge if there are unread messages there . So , like bmike mentioned , the real way to get rid of those badges is to get closer to inbox zero .
Simple answer : Not really . You can , however , enable the " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " option in the Keyboard preference pane : ... and then use <URL> to map F4 to Expose . By doing this , all functions of your current function keys wo n't work and you 'll have to remap all of them using BTT as you like .
Currently there is no way to accomplish this . The Growl mailing lists <URL> allowing Growl to always place the notification on the display that you have a window focused in . For example , you have 3 displays , oriented in a horizontal line , and you 're doing some file management on the far-left display and web browsing on the far right . If Finder has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-left display , if Safari/Chrome/Firefox / $ BROWSER has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-right display . But this feature has not yet been implemented , so you are limited to explicitly configuring Growl to send notifications to a single display . This feature has been written up on their Google Code Project page , so you can star <URL> in order to receive further notifications . Note that you can star it on an issue detail page by clicking the star outline to the left of the title " Issue 122 : [ ... ] " , or at the bottom of the page just above the comment box . After clicking the star in either location , it will turn yellow and have a thicker blue outline , that means you 've subscribed , and in essence , " voted " for the feature .
You can use the Universal Access preferences to play the same audio in both channels :
Often a hard reset of the device will fix problems . Powering off and back on does n't do the same thing as it does for a computer - it 's more akin to hibernate mode in that its drawing no power , but nothing ( RAM etc ) is cleared . To do a hard reset , on iPhone 6s and below , press and hold Sleep and Home until the Apple logo appears . On iPhone 7 and higher , press and hold Volume Down and Home .
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
No , there is no way to do this . Also , wifi is only searched for when you actually go to use your phone . It wo n't search for wifi networks constantly while the phone is in your pocket . Your iPhone is very good at managing its own battery usage . Checking what SSIDs exist is very battery efficient . Lastly , you can turn off that annoying prompt that comes up whenever networks are discovered . It 'll still automatically connect to wifi networks that you trust , but that dialog will never appear .
Calendar alarms obey the mute switch . Clock alarms do not . Personally , I consider this a feature and not a bug -- but I can understand why you 'd at least want the option . However , short of jailbreaking , there is currently no way to change this behavior in the Apple-provided applications .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
At an educated guess , I would say the following is happening : Exchange is designed to push - and the exchange server is no doubt pushing to Apple servers - regardless of whether you have push enabled on the iPad or not , it 's just how it works . When you connect to the Apple store , you connect to the Apple notification server ( or renew your connection to it ) and in doing so pick up any mail that has n't been collected from the exchange server yet . I would imagine the same would happen with other push notifications as they pass to the Apple server whether they are enabled on your iPad or not . What would be interesting to test is whether this happens with a conventionally configured Gmail account - which would probably shed more light on what is happening .
Simply download the IPSW of the final build of iOS 8.1 from developer.apple.com , connect your device to iTunes , alt-click the Update button and select your IPSW . No data will be lost and your device will be updated .
There 's no such possibility . App developer would need to implement this in the app . P.S. . You can open links from Facebook in Safari - > click " Share " when viewing the link and choose " Open in Safari " . <URL> Image from : <URL>
If they are stored locally instead of on iCloud they will not sync . If you can place them in iCloud they will sync correctly . Uncheck all accounts to find the wrongly placed contacts , happy hunting ! ( :
That is pretty bizarre . The iPhone 4 is <URL> for a total of 512MB , but it sounds like , for some reason , your phone is n't seeing one of them . Your numbers bear this out too - the iPhone hardware sets aside 9MB of the total memory , resulting in the OS seeing 503MB or , in your case , 247MB . Definitely take it in and try to exchange it or replace it .
At first glance it is n't possible in a stock installation of iOS 6 and using the default mail app . If you jailbreak your phone , it appears that at least one tweak , Mail Enhancer Pro , will allow you to have rules on your iPhone itself . However , there are a number of good options , other then jailbreaking , that may work . First , if you use an IMAP email account , then you may be able to use your computer to route the mail . The changes will obviously reflect on the device . For example , if you have a Mac , then you can use Mail.app to create a rule to forward particular emails to the address you desire . Second , depending on who provides your email , you may be able to route the mail there . I would say Gmail is an example of that . If you go to your Gmail account and navigate to settings , you can set up rules in there . iCloud mail provides rules as well . If you go to <URL> - > Mail - > Settings ( icon in the upper left corner ) . You can select the Rules tab and set up actions that would work apply to the mail you receive to your @me . com , @icloud . com , or @mac . com account .
end question
start question
Does installing Yosemite require an internet connection ?
No . All of the information has been downloaded therefore it does not need an Internet connection to install . Just make sure you start the install while on wifi because the installer asks a few questions and it may need wifi to process it . Once answering the questions and it starts the actual install you may take the computer away from wifi
I usually place the lighter drive in the optical bay since it 's not as securely connected to the body as the intended HDD slot . This also plays into the rubber shock mounts for the HDD which both protect it from accelerations as well as isolating/dampening whatever vibration the drive motors cause . As phrased , you may get a null answer since there may not be any issues with either placement . Macs can boot from external drives and have no problems writing the sleep image to an external USB or Thunderbolt drive since the OS wants to keep the system on one drive . The only issues I 've seen are people using links to place some of the core OS and support files on a secondary drive rather than just placing user files ( home folders ) and safer documents on a manual/fixed tiered storage system . With core storage and Apple 's broad support of any SSD to comprise a FusionDrive the need to micromanage what files live on which tier of storage might hopefully become a thing of the past .
An iPhone ( in working order ) stops charging when it reaches 100 % , even if you leave it plugged in . Or are you perhaps asking about a malfunctioning iPhone , where for some reason this cut-off is not working ?
<URL> says MacPorts can pre-compile ports into binaries so applications need not be compiled when installing on a target system . MacPorts may create two types of binaries : archives and packages . However I found issues with the pkgs a few years ago which might have been fixed and the following ois more how I view macports . If macports does have a binary package which it does in most cases then it behaves exactly as a package install including man pages . The only difference is that you need the command line compiler and the macports sources ( not the sources of the packages ) installed and that the code is in / opt/local . Also due to shared libraries you ca n't just take an executable and run it it probably depends on other shared libraries which macports also provides . As for centralisation you could easily install on one machine and then rsyuc or rdist to all the others ( or other OSX replication mechanisms ) or as macports pointed out set up a local repo .
Yes - Macs have internet sharing where you can use one device to get internet and share it from another . Most people in a cabin situation set up an AirPort to let all the devices talk and then you would share from the USB to the physical ethernet port . The router would get to the internet from the ethernet and everyone can join the WiFi and share whether or not the USB modem is dialed . You would set the service order to have the USB modem be the highest connection in the network pane . What you ask is also possible - just share from USB to WiFi and the Mac will create a wireless network the other devices can join .
It turns out Yosemite enables mouse acceleration by default . it can be disabled by typing this in terminal : After changing this setting in Terminal , you 'll need to logout and log back in to your Mac . Relaunching Finder will work too ( option + right-click on Finder icon in dock - > Relaunch )
EDIT 3 : Yes ! Since the release of 10.10.4 , <URL> called , allowing users to activate TRIM also on unsupported disks . So now the ultimate and final answer is : / EDIT 3 EDIT 1 : Finally I found a way ! Apparently there is a neat trick hidden in the tool as <URL> says . So in the future I will boot into Single User Mode ( press ⌘ + S at boot screen ) from time to time and issue the command . It will check the disk and finish with the message / EDIT 1 EDIT 2 : So there is a new tool called <URL> that specializes on exactly that problem . It has a manual TRIM command and helps you turning Yosemite 's kext signing on and off . / EDIT 2 : Furthermore , I read about <URL> which would somewhat accomplish what I was originally asking for . This Windows ( Bootcamp partition required ) tool will rewrite all data of partitions or an entire disk . This approach seems a little less painful than wiping my SSD and restoring it from a backup . However , it also comes with the downside of doing an additional write cycle .
If you iPhone talks to the internet while connected to WiFi , then yes , it costs your home internet bandwidth . If it talks to the internet outside of of WiFi range , it costs your mobile internet bandwidth . Syncing your phone with iTunes does not use the internet , it only uses the local network . If your phone is configured to sync with iCloud , then it is using the internet .
The old OS has to run until the new one is in place and ready for the device to restart . Right there , you have 2x the space of a generic OS image . Then , the OTA updates take more space than iTunes with a computer assisting since your iPhone must have space not only for the compressed image , but also to store uncompressed contents of that download . Lastly , some amount of temporary space is needed as it actually installs the updated firmware . This space is for upgrade scripts , patching settings , upgrading databases and getting all the old content ready for the new code . Here 's an accounting of the current fall 2013 upgrade with specifics . iOS 6 took up something like 600MB of space , but required something closer to 2.5 GB of free space for the OTA update download/installation process , so it should be no surprise that iOS 7 asks for 3 GB space . Here is a <URL>
I used it today . Lion to Snow Leopard and Lion to Lion . Worked fine . I did n't even think about it not working until I read this ... :-)
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
The MDM server does need to be available by the device , but Profile Manager itself does not . In other words , the ability to access the Profile Manager does n't need to be present on the device , providing the literal MDM server is accessible .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
The option to download iOS 4.3 simulator is available from within Xcode . You can find it under . Just click on and you might have to enter your Apple ID credentials . If you do n't see this option , you could try removing your older versions of Xcode and installing the latest one from the Appstore . My version is 4.3.2 .
This appears to be fixed in iOS7 - I set the DHCP Gateway to 0.0.0.0 and the iPad connects with a tickbox rather than leaving the spinning circle .
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
Mac OS X Mountain Lion supports Internet Sharing using WPA/WPA2 . You will need to upgrade to get this functionality . <URL> . And here is a screenshot of the new option for WPA2 in Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) :
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
Note that there are usually two ways of installing applications on Mac OS X : A simple and common way is to send the user an application bundle . The user can copy it to whichever directory ( s ) he feels like it . Typically , applications are copied/moved to the / Applications directory and can be moved around the filesystem ( or to other filesystems ) . Another way is to provide an installer . Installers are helpful in case there 's need for pre - / post-flight scripts or specific directories . So , answering your questions : In Mac/Unix since there is no control panel , I could be installing same dmg again and again . I would never get repair option ? Although there is something similar to Control Panel , namely System Preferences.app , there is no stock application to manage applications ( list , install , remove ) . Since most users install applications to the / Applications directory , listing applications is done via inspecting the directory , installing applications is done via copying/moving application bundles to that directory , and removing applications is done via removing application bundles from that directory . Yes , it is possible for a user to install the same application repeatedly -- but I ca n't really imagine a use case for that . Maybe you 're asking this because of a ' repair option ' ? What would that do ? If you 're considering the case where an application bundle gets corrupted by some reason then it could be just a matter of copying the application bundle again . Why are Volume and mount required ? . Is n't the installation on unix like copying files to a target system ? . dmg volumes are not required to install applications . A developer/distributor can ship an application bundle in a . zip file , or a . tar file , or a compressed . tar file . Many developers prefer to ship applications via a . dmg volume because it is possible to customise the appearance of the volume when it is mounted -- custom background , custom icons , custom icon sizes , or a link to the / Applications directory to make it easier for the user to copy the application bundle to that location .
Whenever we install newer version of xcode , it ask " Do you want to replace the last version or to keep both " , than we need to choose the Both Version option . It will keep both .
end question
start question
Why are my events disappearing in iCal after upgrading to Lion and how can I fix it ?
iOS 5 and iCloud should be coming out tomorrow . There should be improvements in this area . Hopefully this will help you . I know it is not what you would want to hear , but I have seen disappearing content like you describe . Especially with Exchange , and OS 10.6.x
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
One idea would be to run TagScanner , then create a new iTunes library : Hold Option while starting iTunes . Click " Create new " library . Choose its destination ~ / Music and name it . In the new library , open Preferences and navigate to Advanced . Make sure that " Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library " is checked . Import all the TagScanner 'd music files into your new library . iTunes will create a new folder/sub-folder [ artist/album ] hierarchy based on the new ID3 information , and nothing would be broken . If everything looks the way you want it to , delete the old library . Here 's how to delete the old library ( this edit is in response to your comment below ) : delete the entire / iTunes folder and all its contents . You 'll notice that when you make a new library , you get a new folder in ~ / Music . For example , ~ / Music/Nathans _ Library . That folder is n't where the iTunes application lives , so it 's fine to wipe out the whole thing . ( It 's handy to know this , because it means you can store your iTunes library wherever you want to . For example , at work I archive loads of audio tracks in an iTunes library on a server . That way , my co-workers can access it if they need to , and our ITS department can back it up more easily . ) One tip for albums featuring guest appearances : Set the album artist , because iTunes looks at " Taylor Swift " and " Taylor Swift feat . Tim McGraw " as two separate artists , so make sure to set the album artist to " Taylor Swift " . iTunes will use the album artist field to make the organizational folder hierarchy , so your tracks will stay grouped together in the file system as well as in iTunes . Caveat : Following this approach might mean losing your personal metadata like play count , rating , date last played , etc. . I 'm not sure though . Definitely back up your entire iTunes library before trying anything like this ; you never know what might cause you to need a " do-over " .
Out of the box , there is no / opt file delivered by OS X . This command will show the hidden status of files in root with O being the capital letter , not zero . The command can be used to toggle the hidden flag if needed . Depending on how you got / opt created , you may or may not have issues with the permissions changing again - most tools leave things alone with respect to filesystem flags as long as the read/write/execute permissions are not removed .
According to the man page , hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . But then also standby causes kernel power management to automatically hibernate a machine after it has slept for a specified time period . This saves power while asleep . This setting defaults to ON for supported hardware . The setting standby will be visible in pmset - g if the feature is supported on this machine . standby only works if hibernation is turned on to hibernatemode 3 or 25 . ( which it is by default on supported portables ) standbydelay specifies the delay , in seconds , before writing the hibernation image to disk and powering off memory for Standby . On my machine , with settings that I believe are default , when I type I get the result of 4200 , meaning that after 70 minutes of sleep , the machine cuts power to the memory and restores from the memory image saved to the hard drive . If your settings do not look like this , the command just might be your new friend .
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
Have you tried repairing the disk permissions via Disk Utility ? If that does n't work , try enabling the root account , logging in , and attempting to access the files . Use the " System Administrator " account to access the files : navigate to the folder " / System/Library/CoreServices / " and open " Directory Utility.app " Click the padlock in the " Edit " menu , choose " Enable root user " from the Apple menu , choose " Log out " log in as " System Administrator " ( or " root " ) and you will have access to the files in " / Users/Abby "
For some reason iChat defaulted to selecting " https only " on aim and gtalk for me . Once I deselected both https options , iChat accounts connected successfully .
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
This kind of thing is a RAM problem 9 times out of 10 . Your RAM is constantly being paged in and out to your ( relatively slow ) hard drive , causing you to wait . THe best solution is to upgrade your RAM or if it 's already maxed , consider getting an SSD .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
Back up your iPad , then power it off . Start the device and run only the problematic writing app . Get benchmarks or some other definite measurement so you can then try things and know if it helps . You might also try the above while the device is in airplane mode to ensure no background sync or network issue is affecting the performance of the device and app . The most common fix is to restore the device to factory settings and repeat the one app only . If that app works , then you 'll need to restore the backup and work out what is causing the issue . If that app does n't work , then you can blame that build of that app and run an older one ( again looking to get it from a backup ) or find a different app . The troubleshooting process is the same for most any problem . protect your data with a backup measure change something and re-measure continue until you have isolated the problem
Remember the <URL> ? Apple did license the technology at that point in time to build an iTunes compatible phone with Motorola , before the iPhone era . The <URL> was one of the other few non-Apple devices compatible with iTunes . There was also the case of the <URL> which supported iTunes syncing ( unlicensed ) , but Apple kept breaking the syncing ( purposedly ? ) with new iTunes versions , forcing users of Palm Pre 's to search for hacks to get it working again . I think this shows that it is technically possible ( even through reverse engineering ) , but Apple is not going to sit by and allow it . This probably is even more true nowadays , as they are fiercely protecting the iTunes/iOS eco-system . You could also use iSync to sync contacts and calendars with many different phone models , but it has gone missing since Mac OS X Lion . Here 's <URL> to install it again though . EDIT : Found a quote from Apple regarding " non-supported " devices , which illustrates their stance : Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software . However , Apple does not provide support for , or test for compatibility with , non-Apple digital media players and , because software changes over time , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players . And here 's a reaction from Apple to Business Week regarding the Palm Pre : iTunes 8.2.1 is a free software update that provides a number of important bug fixes . It also disables devices falsely pretending to be iPods , including the Palm Pre . As we 've said before , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with unsupported digital media players .
I have two other suggesting that also helped me fix issues that I was having . Both of them are pretty easy too ( no need to mess with any system files or change plist or anything else like that ) . 1 ) Go to the Disk Utility app on your computer and press the buttons in following picture in the order that they are numbered . This will make OSX scan your hard disk and attempt to fix any potential file permission problems you may have . If this does n't fix the memory issue , it should a least make your computer run a little smoother . I find that doing this one in a while really helps performance on my computer ( which is fairly new by the way , so this helps even on relatively resent systems ) . ( PS . 1 ( b ) is optional , most likely it will be grayed out anyway unless you run the Disk Utility app from Network Recovery Mode or while running off a separate hard drive . ) 2 ) If you have antivirus installed on your Mac and you turned on the Scan Archives option , turn it off . The reason this feature is not on by default is that it affects the computer 's performance a lot any time you run a local java program . It sounds like a really cool thing to have on , but it comes with a serious performance draw . I 'm not sure if this will help free up your RAM , but if nothing else helps , this is a quick and easy way to speed up your computer . :)
Google calendars other than your default calendar are treated as delegated calendars by iCal . To get them to open in the main screen go to iCal > Preferences > Accounts , select your google account , click the tab for Delegation , then check the boxes next to the calendars you want to display in your main calendar window . Now in the upper left hand corner of the iCal window , click the Calendars button which brings up the pop-up allowing you to select which calendars are visible . Check the box for the calendars you want to view . You can return to this pop up at any time to change the calendars you 're seeing at any given time .
Short answer ... No . There is no public API that manages the " Do Not Disturb " feature . There are also no frameworks that can achieve this . Googling would also say it 's not the kind of sandbox breakout Apple would be likely to allow in the future , either .
Change the default calendar to " last selected calendar " then clicking a calendar via the " Calendar " button pop-over will actually set the currently active calendar for new events .
It likely was screensaver 's fault : I was using " Word of the day " , it has n't happened any more since I 've switched to " Classic " .
To strictly answer your question , it is not possible to delete something from your device and have it remain and accessible from iCloud Photo Library . Here 's more details : The idea behind iCloud Photos Library is to have all your photos on all your devices . Picture a parent of a small family in California who takes , on average , several photos a week and has a Mac , iPad , and iPhone . When they take a photo on their iPhone , it syncs to their other two devices automatically so that when they arrive home , they can open their computer and view the photos or videos they took . Pretty cool ? Yes , for some situations it 's ideal . But there 's a problem , if you do n't have enough storage on your phone to hold all of the photos , iCloud Library is stuck until you open settings and allow it to optimize your device storage . It then saves low resolution photos to your device and will download the high resolution version when you view the photo . This too is convenient in some situations . The problem comes in when you want to control what photos go where . I 've taken thousands of photos and videos on my iPhone and I do n't want all of those on my phone even if I could have that . But with iCloud Library enabled , all of your photos will be on your device as there is no way to control what images are in the cloud versus on your device . So , it seems that Apple 's solution to your problem of having too many photos and videos on your phone would be to enable the option to optimize device storage . However , here is , by far , the biggest problem with iCloud Photo Library and the " optimize device storage " option . If you enable that setting , and then go to disable it at some point , it will attempt to download the full resolution version of all your images ( not just the device-optimized high-resolution one ) . This makes sense , but causes a problem as your device likely would n't have near enough storage by then to handle that . Consequently , that 's probably not the approach you would want to take . To summarize : use iCloud Photo Library if you do n't take ( or keep ) a lot of photos and if you have more than one Apple device . Otherwise , it 's probably better to avoid it .
I 've seen reference to various iTunes Data Anonymizer applications . This should be a reasonably comprehensive list of where you should and should n't be worried . DRM Encumbered Files ( protected AAC media ) do not carry direct personal information such as your name . They do of course have personal information to the extent necessary to examine and validate your license , but this is information that should only be able to be understood by Apple . So called " iTunes Plus " unprotected MP3 files do contain your personal information . A cursory search led me to <URL> . Note that I am not vouching for this software . Your mileage may vary . Make a backup of any files you have before running them through this , or any other modification software . Files encoded via the CD Ripper does not tag data into the encoded files , no matter what format or quality you choose . Nor will arbitrary media files you choose to import into iTunes . Did I miss a means in which data may become " available " into iTunes ?
end question
start question
Is there a Game Boy Color emulator for Lion ?
<URL> Visual Boy advanced should work on Mac . I have n't personally tried it out , but if it 's at all as good as their program for PC you 'll be set . Best of luck
The hotspot feature is , in essence , very similar to the Internet Tethering feature . The differences are that a ) there 's no cable required and b ) you can connect up to 3 * wifi-capable devices , so you 're not restricted to tethering only devices that have USB or Bluetooth . * See the below comments for the correct answer .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
There is the HTML - <URL> and <URL> , which are supported by Safari and are used for semantic data . Unfortunately , there is no data detector in Safari for those standards . There is a <URL> , until those detectors are implemented , by using " Mail Contents of This Page " from the File menu .
The OS X equivalent of Windows Task Manager is Activity Monitor , located in / Applications/Utilities / , or type Activity Monitor in Spotlight . See Activity Monitor 's internal Help : Activity Monitor > Help > Activity Monitor Help For more information see Apple 's Support Document : <URL> Also , as mentioned by klanomath , for more specialized scenarios there is Instruments in Xcode . ( Xcode > Developer Tools > Instruments ) Help for the Command Line version of Instruments , in a Terminal type : Or see Apple 's <URL> .
<URL> for iOS Prompt allows you to remotely <URL> into another machine . Without jailbreaking , there is no way to use Terminal to access your file system . However , I 've found that if you do jailbreak your phone and want to use Prompt as a Terminal , you can set it to SSH to server and authenticate with the <URL> . <URL> for iOS This app does basically the same thing just a little differently . By default it allows a VNC connection for screen sharing , but it has different add ons that you can purchase that allow SSH , <URL> , and <URL> .
Custom syntax color themes are located in ( Note that this directory may not exist if you 've not yet modified any of your themes or have n't created a custom theme of your own , but will be created as soon as you do . ) The files have a extension . Simply retrieve the file from that directory and copy it into the same directory on another machine . I quite like Ethan Schoonover 's <URL> ; I find them to be very readable and easy on the eyes , and can be installed as explained above .
You have to purchase a credit review and have your credit approved in order to enroll in the program . That is the only cost to enroll . Be aware that this is for large companies that intend to sign an NDA , receive Apple confidential information and pay royalties for access to and/or participation in the program . The credit check is required so that Apple can ensure your company has the financial resources to bear the costs of participating in the program : From <URL> : Why do I need to complete a credit review ? A credit review must be completed in order to determine your company 's ability to meet the financial obligations associated with the MFi Program .
No , it will complete the purchase request regardless . It just wo n't run on your device . If you did make a purchase that does n't run on your current device , you will have to contact the <URL> .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
<URL> Hands down the most beautiful , elegant and functional emulator to ever grace OS X . The initial public release was loosed on December 25 , 2013 . If you 'd like a version that has MAME support ( among other consoles not included in vanilla download ) , click the arrow and choose the experimental version . Then simply install the MAME core , drag your ROMs to the Arcade window , and OpenEmu will do the rest . Note that OpenEmu uses MAME 0.149 and does not yet provide a robust user experience ( you 'll get a generic , cryptic error if you 're missing a BIOS or do not have the proper supported ROM ) . Lastly , for discussions on the topic , <URL> on github .
Not at the moment . To view your <URL> you need to access it on an Apple device ( Mac , iOS or Apple TV ) that 's signed in with your iCloud ID . iCloud.com does n't offer any functionality to view the Photo Stream , and it seems unlikely to any time soon .
You ca n't mount a http/https server as a filesystem since it wo n't provide a directory table for you . ( I left a comment on why httpfs is n't what you need ) The best way to do the task is to make a list of the URLs you need to check and use a shell script ( run from Automator for convenience perhaps ? ) You will need to USE curl or wget which will do the http downloading for you ( they both provide post and http basic auth support for sending login info , however you probably need to install them on Mac Os X , off the top of my head I 've forgotten . ) You can get fancy and use diff to check automatically for changes in the files , so that you only need to get personally involved with the process when you really have to . Need more info , I 'll happily expand on this . References : <URL> and <URL> <URL>
Are you talking about a <URL> ? To my knowledge , they are predominantly single ear because they are meant to substitute putting a phone up to your ear . However , there does exist bluetooth stereo headsets that can handle music and make calls using their built in microphone . They are n't nearly as compact however , and likely not as battery efficient . Take a look at the <URL> if that is what you are in the market for . Do give the guys at the store a break when you return the product . You are a rarity to request a stereo headset as 99 % sold in stores today are single ear piece units .
The built-in AirPrint does n't allow this sort of functionality as of iOS 4 , but if you get the <URL> , you should be able to do B&amp;W printing and manage other settings . This of course only works if you have an AirPrint/ePrint HP printer , it wo n't work with any other printer that you 've hacked to set up with AirPrint .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
A partial-workaround is suggested on <URL> : There is a workaround that solved the problem for me . The iPhone assigns calendar colours in this order : red , orange , blue , green , purple ( then repeats that cycle ) . So the first step is to switch off Exchange syncing for Calendars in the iPhone settings then go into the m.google.com/sync web app and just enable one of your calendars . Then re-enable Exchange syncing . Now you 'd think it would colour that first one red and it may do in your case but for me it coloured the first calendar orange , possibly because I had some other local calendars already on the iPhone . If it colours your chosen calendar with a colour you were not expecting , just start again ( disable Exchange/change sync settings and re-enable ) and take whatever colour it chose as the starting point in that cycle above . Once you 've got the first calendar/colour combination working as you like , go back into m.google.com/sync and select the calendar you want to go with the next colour in the cycle . Wait a few minutes . Check that it 's showing up as expected in the calendar app . And then go back to m.google.com/sync and repeat . If you take this one calendar at a time approach , you can assign colours as you want them , except of course you will face problems if you have say three green calendars and no purple ones ...
No , there really is not an easy way to run PPC apps on Mac anymore . Your OS X Rosetta disk will definitely fail to install on Mavericks . Apple <URL> support for Rosetta following the release of OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) and have never put it back . However , you still have a few ( harder ) options . Install Snow Leopard in a virtual machine . <URL> a guide . Pull out your old PowerPC Mac , if you still have it . Install Snow Leopard in a external hard drive or internal partition and use Rosetta . When Apple first published Rosetta , they said it was best for low computational apps like Word . In addition , Apple stated that games and high computational apps like CAD software or video editors/compositors would have issues running through Rosetta . COD will probably not run well through Rosetta . If all else fails , people still sell their old PPC 's on eBay .
<URL> by John Gruber outlines several possibilities : For OSX : <URL> <URL> For Windows : <URL> On the Mac side , Scroll Reverser looks nice in the menu bar , is free , and works from Tiger to Snow Leopard ( 10.4 - 10.6 ) .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
end question
start question
What are the advantages of buying a Mac at an Apple Store ?
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
Apple has made it abundantly clear that they will reject apps for reasons that change over time . The review guidelines explicitly say - your app will be rejected if it 's too similar to many other apps . So - the first person to do this might breeze through review . The 10th or 50th , not so much . The review guidelines and nature of thousands of apps means that not all reviews are equivalent - what one app does to get through might be rejected for weeks or months as you work with Apple to meet the review you get . Different teams and different people will make different decisions no matter how well intentioned a company is to make reviews uniform and fair to all . iOS apps of the category of remote notarization are now live ( several versions of that app exist ) , many real estate and digital signature verification / electronic contracting services exist ( this is far more crowded a slot than notary ) and all manner of business apps are booming on the app store as the premium and pay to play gaming juggernaut gets so saturated that apps with real functionality will hopefully become more prevalent . Thus , setting aside any notion that you can " read the tea leaves " based on what apps have been approved in the past , it 's probably a " first mover " advantage and do n't invest more than you can afford to lose until you have something you can submit and then work through your specific review feedback with Apple as opposed to guessing what may or may not be an issue .
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
Apple software is only licensed to run on Apple products . Commands such as dscl , diskutil , defaults , etc. are specific to OS X . However you will find that outside of that , most of the CLI is very similar to other * nix flavors .
In iOS 9 Settings >> News >> News and Privacy , there 's a long text that itemizes the privacy protections ( and limitations ) related to collection and use of individual and aggregated data . Regarding " Disclosure to Third Parties " , it says , in part : We do not share any of your individual data with third parties ...
I use <URL> on my Retina MBP . I can recommend them , however , they are a bit expensive . I have seen workers clean MBP 's screens with it ( though not in an official Apple store , but in a store that sells only Mac related products ) .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
Yes - you will want to start with the <URL> source code or compiled installer that Apple publishes and then pick whatever device you like that integrates to this infrastructure . Here is Apple 's starting point and a few more links that may help you in your search for a biometric authentication solution : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
375x667pts or 4.7 " ( iPhone 6 screen ) When running and iPhone only app in the iPad Pro simulator in Xcode 7.1 ( publicly available in the App Store ) the screen point resolution is reported as 375x667 or a 4.7 " screen . This also equates to an iPhone 6 or an iPhone 6 + in display zoom mode . See PaintCode 's guide for more details on display zoom mode . <URL>
What does the terminal command show you about the files have . It 's highly unlikely they are truncated <URL> , but that 's the only guess I have at the moment .
Yes , you can get educational discounts at a physical Apple Store -- I have done it , though it has been a while ;-) . They require verification of your status which can generally be done with a student id .
The closest thing I have found is Cubby . It 's a Dropbox competitor , but it has a feature known as DirectSync that allows you to sync one or more folders across computers ( Mac or PC ) without uploading them to Cubby 's cloud . The downside ? From Cubby 's FAQ : " Cubby always sets up direct UDP connections between clients unless your firewall or NAT configuration prevents it from doing so , in which case data is relayed through our data centers using a TCP based , E2E secure SSL tunnel . " IOW , it might run through their servers , which means it 's not a perfect solution for my situation . Still , it 's close .
There are really only two ways to back up your iPad . Both of them are comphrehensive and should transfer everything onto a new iPad . Chances are , the space difference is comprised of music , and movies , and such that you can re-download from iTunes . iCloud will handle that part automatically , and iTunes probably wo n't . But , it 's not hard to do . Option 1 : iCloud iCloud is likely the easiest backup solution . Configure it in Settings > iCloud , and make sure the initial backup completes before wiping your device . This is a <URL> including information that is backed up . The only thing is there is a 5GB free storage limit . After that , you will need to purchase more storage ( for a nominal fee ) . Option 2 : iTunes The traditional way of backing up iOS data , this way still stands strong and true . iTunes should backup all your needed data . Check out this <URL> . I did n't find a specific mention of iBooks PDFs ( which should be stored in iTunes , correct ? ) , but it did mention on the 3rd bullet : Application settings , preferences , and data , including documents . This likely includes iBooks PDFs . So , in summary , <URL> is likely going to be your best , easiest , and most user friendly way to backup . If it were me , I would do both . I have restored a backup from iCloud and found it remarkably easy and simple .
OS X , like most modern operating systems , uses a virtual memory system for managing memory . Among other purposes , this allows the operating system to treat the computer as having an unlimited pool of memory . To achieve this , the OS will page unused parts of RAM out to a disk store known as the swapfile . Of course , RAM is not unlimited , so OS X groups RAM into four categories : wired , active , inactive , and free . Wired memory is required by the operating system , and can never be paged out of memory . Active memory is memory used by currently-running programs . Inactive memory was used recently by programs which have now been terminated ( or have n't been unused in a long time ) . Free memory is , as the name suggests , RAM that is not being used . When you launch a program , it gets loaded into active memory . When you quit a program , however , it does n't get removed from RAM ; rather , it gets bumped into inactive memory . This is why it is often faster to re-launch a program -- it is still in RAM ( try this with a big program like Firefox ) . Once all your memory is used ( free memory is 0 ) , the OS will write out inactive memory to the swapfile to make more room in active memory . If a program gets paged out to the swapfile , and you re-launch it , it 'll get pulled from the swapfile into active memory . So in short , you actually should n't care if your free memory is low . In fact , you want it to be low -- free memory is wasted memory ( as the OS is n't using it for anything ) . When examining how much memory your computer is using , you actually want to pay attention mostly to Swap used , which tells you the size of the virtual memory swapfile , and Page ins , which tells you how often the OS has to pull memory from the swapfile into active memory .
Yes , you do have to re-buy to get updates via the Mac App Store . Via <URL> : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store . Honestly , I 'm really surprised by this . UPDATE : I 'd recommend reading <URL> about this as it provides a more comprehensive picture of what 's going on , and includes some developer-related information .
For me , Hazel works best when I 'm using it in conjunction with other tools . On its own , in can seem a little lackluster or underwhelming , but when combined with other applications or used as the ' glue ' between them it really shines . One of my uses is to automatically organize PDFs of schedules from work . I 've got a Dropbox account , and make use of <URL> to allow me to email attachments straight into my Dropbox . The issue is that they 're not always consistently named , and I do n't feel like manually renaming them . I have Hazel watch the destination folder , and when a PDF arrives , whether its named 7.30 , 7/30 , 07-30 , etc , it automatically renames it , moves it to folder with other already acted on files , and archives away old versions . The result is that I have a nice archive of schedules , all consistently named/sorted . I use Hazel to help out with video encoding/tagging tasks . After encoding a file , Hazel picks up on it in the destination directory , and automatically renames it based on a consistent naming scheme . Once it does this , it applies a label to the file , and moves it to a new folder where files awaiting metadata live . Any file here gets passed through an automator script that adds some basic metadata ( show type , year , etc ) before passing it into <URL> for the final touches before throwing it into iTunes . It also handles more mundane tasks . Some trackers list . torrent files with a . txt extension . Hazel will monitor the downloads folder , and if a file with a . txt extension shows up , it checks the file 's " Where from " attribute , and if it matches a trackers website , it changes the extension to . torrent and moves the file into my Torrents directory so that Transmission can add it . There are times when I do n't need to see my Bootcamp volumes mounted on the desktop . Hazel can check for this volume , and it if sees it mounted , it 'll run a shell script to unmount it .
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
end question
start question
How do I make Evernote always paste in the matching font ?
What you want can be achieved using Paste and Match Style Edit > Paste and Match Style Keyboard shortcut shift + ⌘ + V <URL> This will paste in your clipboard content matching the current style of text in your note .
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
CMD + n opens a new terminal window . CMD + t opens a new terminal tab . If you want to open something other than the default Terminal , use the techniques <URL> to open a pre-defined Terminal setup . You can also do CMD + n , i , Tab to bring up the Inspector , then use up/down arrows , or type the names , which lets you choose a pre-defined Terminal . If you want a setup hard-coded and not yet known to Terminal.app , follow <URL> .
Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : Further details : Open KeyRemap4MacBook - Mis &amp; Uninstall - Open private.xml Edit and Add the above snippet between and Go to the tab in the KeyRemap4MacBook and press Then select the " Powerpoint " box under
I actually asked a <URL> ( but more broad so this is n't a duplicate ) . I got this as an answer ( it works , I tested it ) : Write the below line in terminal : defaults write com.apple.Safari com.apple.Safari.ContentPageGroupIdentifier.WebKit2BackspaceKeyNavigationEnabled - bool YES Then restart Safari . Hope this helps !
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
I have done this many times since I posted this question . Create usb stick like this : Put the USB stick into your Mac and press the power button while holding down Command ⌘ + Option + O+F At the prompt , type the following : Note : If you are booting linux then use , but if you are booting a Mac OS use . Note 2 : If your stick is in the right side of the machine , then you need to do this : Note 3 : If these commands do n't work , then there is most likely a problem with your media or iso file . I have found that Ubuntu , Debian , and openSUSE work great . I can not get Fedora or Gentoo to boot this way yet . My optical drive does not work anymore , so this is how I install OS X on my machine . I made a live USB stick of the OS X install disc this way .
Personal Hotspot mode detaches the device from any network and is intended to make all data flow to and from the cellular account . If you pulled the SIM card your plan just might work as a stunt to connect two laptops in the absence of another router , but it certainly wo n't extend an existing wireless network in the manner you describe .
While it may not work in all applications there is a way of doing this for a large number . Certainly it works in , and but not Microsoft Word , where you have to do it within the application . All you need to do is open > > and select in the left hand pane . Click on in the right hand pane and the at the bottom . In the field enter then click in the field and press command-V . Then click on You will now see that your shortcut is added . When you open , for example , you will see that no longer has a shortcut ( you could add one using the same method ) and right next to in the menu is your new working shortcut,command-V . Oh , frabjous joy !
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
Take a look at Snippets <URL> or CodeBox <URL> or Dash <URL> or Clips <URL> or Clipmenu <URL> i used Clips for the last 2-3 years
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
Hold & #x 2318 ; and drag it out of the menu . If date and weekday are shown , they will also be removed . Alternatively , you can disable and customize the clock in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Date &amp; Time & #x 2192 ; Clock .
This is the current state of iOS . You 'll notice that incoming calls and pop ups ( the old style notification ) also negatively affect the performance of current app .
Just hover the cursor over the link for a few seconds . The full URL will spring up underneath . The down arrow that will also appear next to the link will open it in a Quick Look window rather than a browser - but if you want to check the link is safe first , do n't use that until you 're sure . <URL>
No , this is not possible unless Apple allows this in a future iOS update .
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
Per <URL> : Is there a way to see my sent history as well as to navigate around in the existing text with the arrow keys ? Sent history is controlled by the up/down arrow keys while holding option , switching between panes in a window with command-up/down , and scrolling with home/end/page up/page down ; you can use any other key combination to navigate or select text . Change this within the <URL> . So ; & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2191 ; or & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2193 ; gives you the last , or next message , respectively . And per that Hidden Preferences link , it would appear that you can change it to use up/down arrows only by opening ( either search for via Spotlight , otherwise you can find the app in ) , and enter : Restart Colloquy after entering this command if it was already open , and see if that works .
end question
start question
Does Tivoli Storage Manager for backup get the details right ?
I 'm not sure that Tivoli gets these finer details absolutley correct . In terms of backing up files and applications these are fine , but when it comes to passwords , attributes and preferences etc , then no , not always . I have just spoken to a pal who uses IBM systems in a Mac and PC magazine publishing environment and prefers his staff on Macs to use Time Machine as the standard back-up to their servers , rather than the PC users who use Tivol as standard .
The size of your package manager will be trivial ( 20 MB ) compared to the data it needs for your packages ( golang clocks in at 250 MB , node at 37 MB ) . I 'd say stick with Homebrew and work with it if you find some libraries are causing large space usages . My thoughts are what specifically are your HDD space concerns ? You could install brew and the files it needs on an external volume , but my guess is you have other files that could be co-located elsewhere - even on an SD card if you ca n't accommodate these files on the boot volume . Here are some target numbers for a clean install of OS X 10.11 with the store Xcode and homebrew installed . 5.4 GB for / System 5.1 GB for / private _ ( most of that is the RAM sleep image on a 16 GB Mac ) 2.4 GB for / Library 1.1 GB for / Applications ( and you could need an additional 5 GB for the full Xcode if you wish to carry that around - most of it is n't needed for command line and open source compilation ) 0.3 GB for / Users So between 14.5 GB of minimal filesystem usage to 20 GB if you carry all of Xcode simulators and SDK for iOS , tvOS , Mac OS that are easily thinned if you only want command line tools . Basically , even if you have a high cost/low storage capacity 64 GB SSD drive to boot your Mac , it 's likely not full of system or tools , but what you 've brought to run .
You could convert them all to ePub using <URL> . Add the ePubs to iTunes and they should sync with iBooks . As not all PDFs are formatted the same , some will show the generic cover while some will show the first page when converted to ePub . You can change the cover art for each book individually in iTunes , by selecting the book > Right click > Get Info > Artwork .
Hold Alt when clicking at the AirPort icon on the menu bar . It should say , where x is the type of connection . You can also launch Wireless Diagnostics from that menu to capture packets and graph signal and noise measurements .
Buy an <URL> from OWC or another vendor . Buy and put your SSD in the enclosure . Connect SSD/enclosure to your computer . Format the SSD with Apple 's Disk Utility . Use <URL> to copy your entire internal HD onto the SSD . Set startup to the SSD and boot from it to make sure it boots . Remove SSD from enclosure and install in MacBook Pro . Put MacBook Pro 's internal hard disk in now empty enclosure and use it as a backup . You also can use Disk Utility to image the drive if you do n't want to use a third party product like <URL> or <URL> . Some people also prefer a simple USB to SATA connector and you can usually get them for less than $ 5 from Amazon if you do n't need or want a drive enclosure for your old drive . However , the use of your old hard disk in an enclosure and a backup tool like SuperDuper ! or CCC gives you both an external drive and the beginning of a solid backup solution as well .
I did some searching and found <URL> ( the caveat being that this applies to 10.5 ) : Using the Restore feature in Disk Utility , you can " restore " the Time Machine disk to another disk and retain the history of changes . This could be useful if you 've outgrown your Time Machine backup drive , and want to migrate your existing backups to a new , larger drive . You should turn Time Machine off before doing starting this process , of course . Be aware that the disks will have the same name and information , so it might confuse Time Machine . For example , after I activated Time Machine on the newly-created disk , I plugged in the old disk , and it showed up as a Time Machine drive , but the backup failed . It 's probably best to avoid having both of them plugged in . At the very least , rename one of them . Perhaps more importantly , Carbon Copy Cloner 2.3 does n't work correctly for cloning a Time Machine drive ( I do n't know about 3 . x ) , as it does n't copy hard links but rather , copies what the links point to . This results in a lot of copies of your system when the Time Machine database has been around for a while . The common suggestion from that thread is for CCC is to a block-to-block copy of the old disk to the new disk .
What you can do is to check if you are running the right build . It 's just to check that you are not still running the developer preview . Lion is free for developers anyway , so that might be the reason you got it for free .
Install a copy of the OS X Server app on a spare Mac with a pile of storage connected to it . Create a share for each Mac that you need to back up , and connect each Mac to its own share . That way , each Mac only sees its own backups . You can also limit the size allowed for each share if you like . Another advantage of having an OS X server on the network is that it can serve as a cache for downloaded updates from Apple , so each update will be downloaded only once , and stored on the cache . There are other services that are available , and all you need is a spare Mac ( I use a Mac Mini ) to act as server , and a copy of the Server app from the App Store for $ 19.99 or so .
I asked myself the same question and searched the file system for Nix-related files . That 's what I found : Not sure if I missed some files or directories . Also , I did not remove it myself , so be careful ( and backup your data ! ) when removing stuff with sudo .
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
Just for reference , Spotlight index should n't get corrupted , but when that 's the case <URL> . You have to remember that spotlight is a database and as such is prone to corruption ; compared to relational databases for example , spotlight can only be deleted and rebuilt when that happens . There 's no " spotlight - repair " command ( one can only wish ) . All in all , it 's rare to see Spotlight failing in OS X 10.6 , it has been very stable compared to the first Tiger version . External applications , on the other hand , can make use of the APIs to store information in the metadata , and here 's where we lose control of what goes in there . If one external application is storing bad data , it could cause the whole index to go nuts . Since you have a healthy working index now , try it for a few weeks and pay attention to any application or utility that claims to support Spotlight . Good Luck !
For most of the " services " ( called Daemons or Agents ) you can check : In terminal : For example only MySQL you can filter the output of the command above , like . Note is to make the filter case insensitive . These can be controlled with a GUI named Lingon . There are some other " services " , that will install themselves in : For those , there is a command like to view whether it is loaded and running . But there is n't a generic mechanism to stop , start or restart . In which catergory your MySQL installation falls is impossible to say , as your question is lacking details on what exactly you have installed , what its source is , how it was installed , etc. .
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
FYI , iPhone 4 does have heat sensors and if it gets dangerously hot it will show a black screen with a yellow warning sign and shut down . It 's perfectly reasonable to be concerned and take the measures you have to increase heat dissipation , but batteries warming on charging is quite normal . I would n't worry unless the iPhone displays an overheating warning consistently .
Firewire 400 will be considerably faster than USB in this case , as FW has its own dedicated chipset , whereas USB requires CPU time and shares its bus with all other USB devices .
No . Erase all content and settings keeps your current iOS . As long as you do n't use an iCloud backup from a device with a newer iOS version you will be fine .
I do n't think this is possible on Terminal app . But , if you want this functionality you should try a Terminal alternative like <URL> , where you can do it with ⌘ + click .
There is not a native way to do this in iOS , but there are many possibilities for workarounds . Here 's one : Set up <URL> and install the helper app on your iDevice . Create a rule in Boxcar telling the helper app to get a push notification every time a message is received at the forwarding address provided . If you need help with this , see <URL> . Create a rule ( or whatever they 're called in your email service ) which automatically forwards folders ' new messages to the Boxcar address . If this fix does n't suit you , you may want to do a similar thing with <URL> .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
end question
start question
How do I remove a Lightning cable that is stuck in a USB port ?
I found a <URL> . I tested a few of the solutions , including using a plastic collar stay , but the suggestion that worked was using two thin cardboard strips to release the grip . What worked for me : Find a thin , semi-glossy business card , or similar piece of cardboard and cut it into two strips about the width of the USB port . You can use an un-occupied port to make sure the strip is narrow enough to fit . Insert the strips on the two wide sides of the USB port , between the outside of the cable 's plug and the inside of the USB port . You may need to work the strips back and forth to get them in . I had to insert the strips to about 2/3 the depth of the port . If you have difficulty inserting the cardboard , you may need a thinner material . Grasp the sandwich of the cardboard strips and the USB plug . Pull . The plug should come out as easily as a normal plug would .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
I have done this many times since I posted this question . Create usb stick like this : Put the USB stick into your Mac and press the power button while holding down Command ⌘ + Option + O+F At the prompt , type the following : Note : If you are booting linux then use , but if you are booting a Mac OS use . Note 2 : If your stick is in the right side of the machine , then you need to do this : Note 3 : If these commands do n't work , then there is most likely a problem with your media or iso file . I have found that Ubuntu , Debian , and openSUSE work great . I can not get Fedora or Gentoo to boot this way yet . My optical drive does not work anymore , so this is how I install OS X on my machine . I made a live USB stick of the OS X install disc this way .
I found a <URL> . I tested a few of the solutions , including using a plastic collar stay , but the suggestion that worked was using two thin cardboard strips to release the grip . What worked for me : Find a thin , semi-glossy business card , or similar piece of cardboard and cut it into two strips about the width of the USB port . You can use an un-occupied port to make sure the strip is narrow enough to fit . Insert the strips on the two wide sides of the USB port , between the outside of the cable 's plug and the inside of the USB port . You may need to work the strips back and forth to get them in . I had to insert the strips to about 2/3 the depth of the port . If you have difficulty inserting the cardboard , you may need a thinner material . Grasp the sandwich of the cardboard strips and the USB plug . Pull . The plug should come out as easily as a normal plug would .
Pull down notification menu . Tap " USB for charging / Touch for more options " Tap " Transfer files ( MTP ) "
You can hide it from from Finder by setting the hidden flag with Terminal and if you want to remove the flag
There can be no such thing . Thunderbolt is an active technology , Display Port is passive . Adding the required circuitry to one end of such a cable would be pointless - it needs both ends to work . Edit : Now I read your question again ... You have a Thunderbolt machine &amp; a Display Port monitor ... That 's Thunderbolt to Display Port not Display Port to Thunderbolt . In which case DP to DP would be sufficient ; the Thunderbolt circuitry would simply be inactive if you used Thunderbolt to Thunderbolt . Display Port &amp; mini-DP are the same thing , but different sizes .
These search terms : bluetooth mouse , os x Most Bluetooth mice work well with OS X.
With the looming possibility that any advice you get from here could cause damage to your machine , I 'll prefix my answer with a disclaimer that you should probably confirm with an official source or advice from Apple directly . So long as the visible damage is limited to the insulation , you should be fine with electrical tape ( as opposed to duct tape ) . The silver wire you see ( likely braided ) is used to prevent interference and is used as a ground .
Do you understand how to use the customization features in AdBlock to detect a specific ad and configure AdBlock to block it ? <URL> .
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
You should look for it in the following place , copy following and paste it in to the Go to Folder in the Finder . Know-how : * If you are wondering how I did it , since I do not use the Garageband : I used the in Terminal that showed me all locations for it . After that it was easy . *
I replaced the cable , and everything is now back to normal . So , as I suspected , the cable was the culprit . Instructions on how to replace the SATA cable is easily found online ( search for things like ) . The only tricky part was to connect the sleep LED to the cable , but if you just check how the old cable is connected you 'll be fine .
The Knowledgebase article <URL> contains some general guidelines and illustrates using System Profiler ( System Information in Lion ) to provide information about the output ( according to specifications ) of a Macs USB ports . If you want to test the real world voltage output of a given USB port on an individual Macintosh at a given load you will have to use a test device . ( <URL> )
Command & #x 2318 ; - drag them off your menu bar , then you should be able to trash them . You might also want to log out and log back in .
Select the song in iTunes and type & #x 21E7 ; + & #x 2318 ; + R to trigger Show in Finder . Alternatively , you can also right-click the item in iTunes and choose this option from the contextual menu . From there , you can navigate up the folder hierarchy by holding the & #x 2318 ; - key and clicking on the folder in the window title bar . You might also want to enable Show Path bar in finder .
This is difficult to do by design , and unless you have root access to your machine none of the following will work as they require root to setup the changes . Once changed , though , userspace programs will have access without having root . There are two common ways to accomplish this , and which you choose will depend on why you 're trying to work around the restriction : Point port 80 to another port , such as 8080 By reconfiguring your machine to pass all port 80 traffic to port 8080 , or any port of your choosing , then you can allow user space servers to receive root privilege ports in the area they are given access to . The process is straightforward : Step 1 : View current firewall rules . Step 2 : Add port forwarding rule ( 80 to 8080 ) If you want to remove your firewall rules run : sudo ipfw flush ( <URL> ) This is a temporary change , and will revert once you reboot , or flush as indicated int he last line . You can <URL> , or you could add the command as a startup line prior to starting your server , which is probably safer from the standpoint of security . Use Authbind Authbind was designed specifically to allow one program access to lower level ports without giving it full root access . There is an OS X port : <URL> It may still be limited to IPv4 traffic , though , you may have to do some additional investigation to find if it meets your needs .
I found this article , <URL> , and possible solutions : It has always been a challenge for IT administrators to find solutions and tools compatible with Mac OS X , but now securing the network and data Mac users access is also becoming a priority . <URL> ' Endpoint Protector 4 with Enforced Encryption on removable storage devices for Mac OS X solves these problems . It offers an easy , yet secure way for Mac users to encrypt data copied onto USB storage devices . With intuitive ' drag &amp; drop ' and copy/paste features , all information copied on the device is instantly protected by password-based military strength AES 256-bit encryption . The Enforced Encryption functionality also incorporates an additional security feature that deletes information if an attempt is made to tamper with the data , or when the device gets lost or stolen . Therefore , stopping users from taking classified information from Macs minis , iMacs , Mac Pros , MacBooks onto portable devices has become an imperative for the companies ' data security . Locking down and monitoring proactively the use of USB , CD/DVD , card readers , etc. is possible with Device Control by Endpoint Protector for Mac OS X and can be managed centrally from the intuitive web-based interface .
One solutios is to edit file and add : If you know more addresses let me know .
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
end question
start question
How can I disable kext signing in Mac OS X 10.10 Yosemite ?
To disable the kext signing security setting : After changing this setting you need to restart the computer to have OS X recognize it . It is important to note that the kext-signing setting is global , if you disable it you should be careful to only install system drivers from sources that you trust . To reenable again use :
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
This AppleScript code will toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox in Accessibility under System Preferences in OS X Yosemite ( tested under 10.10.4 ) regardless of what was last selected under Accessibility as it tells System Preferences to open directly to the location of the " Use grayscale " checkbox and toggle its state . The next issue is how you want to execute it . The problem surrounding setting it as a Service through Automator to use a Keyboard shortcut without the use of a third party utility is every application that receives the shortcut key combo will need to have permission to do so and that becomes a pain unless you only choose e.g. Finder instead of all applications . So without a third party utility I 'd either save it as a script in the Users Script folder and then access it from the Script menu in the Apple menu bar or as an application . The settings for the Script menu in the Apple menu bar are in the Script Editors Preferences . Then it 's just two mouse clicks anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . One to click the Scripts menu and another to click the script name . As an application it can be placed in the Dock and then it 's a single mouse click anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . In either of these two cases you 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
should do the trick . The flag specifies any application you want , so it 's applicable to any number of situations , including ones where TextEdit is n't the default editor . Other relevant options opens in the default editor ( i.e. if you use BBEdit , TextMate , etc. ) will open the file specifically in TextEdit
⌘ ] and ⌘ [ to increase and decrease indent level works in Pages too . These are the default shortcuts for the options available in Format → Text .
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
Currently this is how the Apple Configurator works - it does n't have a provision to load a certificate but instead generates self-signed ones automatically . If I run across a way to hack this , I 'll link it here , but if you need profiles to arrive with a signed certificate look into Lion server or another MDM solution . In practice - you only see the certificat warning when you are sitting in frot of your Mac and connecting devices via USB . I 'm not sure what additional layer of securyity a signed certificate can provide in this case . It 's not like you are connecting to some remote server when these profiles get installed .
I have a shell script that I run via a launchd plist every few minutes to automount an NAS drive . I use it from home to mount my NAS as it contains our shared iTunes Media folder . You can look at the script <URL> . I you have questions about the code I 'll be happy to discuss . It has a lots of error checking etc. . Using a shell script and a launchd plist has the benefit if the the mount becomes unmounted for any reason .
If you have a full keyboard you can use the pgup and pgdown keys on your keyboard , near the numpad . If you are not using a full keyboard , function , labeled fn on your keyboard , plus the up and down arrow keys will give you a page up and down .
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
I would n't go playing with kexts , they do n't like being dragged around . You 'll end up with a kernel panic &amp; have to pick it apart in single user mode - let 's leave that kind of thing to the hackintosh kiddies . LCC comes with an uninstaller , in Applications/Utilities which would be a far better bet .
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
When you do n't have the external hard drive hooked up , go System Preferences >> Time Machine , and switch it to OFF . You will still be able to perform backups , it just wo n't happen automatically . This is the technique that I use , and I do n't see notifications .
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
In iTunes 10.1 , there 's a setting for that : Additionally you can set a parental control that also disables Ping .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
end question
start question
Is it possible to grab a screenshot from the AppleWatch ?
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
Yes , The answer is positive . The power bank capable to charge a laptop needs to supply not only the USB standard charging port but also ( or only ) a DC output port , or a build-in power inverter with an AC outlet . Here i collect some power bank that can charge laptop : 1 . Anker ® Astro Pro2 Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 20000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 12V 16V 19V for iPad Air , Mini , iPhone , Samsung Galaxy , Note , HP , Dell , Acer , Asus , Toshiba Netbooks 2 . RAVPower ® Xtreme 3-Port Portable External Battery Charger with Multi-Voltage 23000mAh Multi-Voltage 9V/12V/16V / 19V/20V -- for Apple Macbook , UltraBook , Digital Cameras , Surface Tablets , Asus Tablets and more 3 . Poweradd ™ Pilot Pro Monster Capacity Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 32000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 9V 12V 16V 19V 20V for Tablet PC , Netbooks , Notebooks , Laptops , Smart Phones 4 . BiXPower 153 Wh ( 42500mAh ) Super High Capacity 12V &amp; 19V External Rechargeable Battery Pack -- BiXPower BP160 Made with high quality Panasonic Li-ion battery cells . Compact size can easily fit into a laptop/notebook carry bag 5 . Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones 6.Qi-Infinity ™ Powergrid External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 34200mAh For Laptops , Notebooks , Netbooks , Tablets and Smart Phones 7 . Lizone ® Extra Pro Super Capacity Portable External Battery Charger 40000mAh For Apple Books , HP , IBM Lenovo , Tablets , Smartphones and more 8 . Intocircuit ® Power Castle PC26000 External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 26000mAh 12 Connectors for Laptops , 10 Connectors for Phones and Tablets , AC Adapter Included There are power banks available with various plug in connectors for laptops , but they cost around 15,000 . I have seen one on ebay india , and the ad says that they 've even sold 29 units . These are not marketed by laptop manufacturers so I am not sure what your laptop warranty status will be if you purchase one of these banks and use it charge your laptop . Most laptops charges through its adapter only . Powerbanks on the other hand have only usb 2 output interface . Replacing laptop batteries with Extra cell batteries available in the market can help . One desi jugaad is using a UPS to charge a lappy but it wont make it handy and portable .
Cydia > Sections > Edit Turn the toggle to " Off " next to the " Theme " sections .
Based on how Time Machine consolidates it backups , unless there is an unpublished method to modify how Time Machine is coded to do this ( and I do n't think there is ) , I 'd say no , you can not prevent specific backups from getting deleted . That said , why are you trying to preserve specific backups , to what end and do you only need files from your Home Folder or the entire Macintosh HD ? Additionally , Time Machine backups are not bootable and if what you 're looking for is a full bootable backup of the systems at a given point in time , you need to make a bootable clone of the drive at that time . You can use <URL> , <URL> or from the Recovery HD , use Disk Utility or in Terminal from the Recovery HD use , etc. .
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
You ca n't recover from an iPhone backup , but there is other way . You can check your apps directory within you iTunes Media Folder Location ( under iTunes → Preferences → Advanced ) . This will tell you where your iTunes are located ( example : ) . If you go to you can find that this is the directory where apps are saved . Check this folder to see if the app you are looking for is there . Apps have version number in it 's name . If not exists what you want , or exists the latest version , you must use a backup to recover ( If you have it ) .
No , if it was not originally purchased/downloaded from the Apple App Store , you will not find it in the Purchased section . Usually , enterprise apps are distributed from that company 's ' app store ' only . If they are deleted from your iOS device , you can revisit the company app store and re-download the app again . It 's up to that company if they want to have a Purchased tab or some other way of seeing previously downloaded apps .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
In iOS 4.3 there will be Personal Hotspot integrated in firmware . Just wait
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
There is one way that I personally know of , and that is using Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> ( $ 29 USD ) . How to send between two iOS devices is outlined in this <URL> ( from 2012 , but the principle is the same ) . Brief version of the article : You first install Airfoil on your computer , and make it act as an Airplay server . From the iOS device playing the audio source , you then use the normal iOS AirPlay controls to pass audio to your computer . You then download Airfoil Satellite from the App store to your second iOS device , and use that application to receive audio from your computer . You just need to assign the Satellite app as a " client " and it will stream audio as usual . If you are thinking of streaming audio from video sources via this method , then audio will obviously not be synced in real-time with video . I have however used it for playing video on my iPad and then " taking the audio with with me " on my iPhone . The example would be if I 'm watching a TV programme on iPad , and I want to go to the bathroom and continue listening ...
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
end question
start question
Does my new iPad 3 have an audio input ... ?
The new iPad , like all iPads , have a combined audio input/output jack , like the iPhone and newer MacBooks . The Genius was correct : Griffin cable should have worked . If it did n't , either the cable or the iPad was faulty . One other possibility is that it was the software . This is n't very likely , but it 's possible that the software you were using had some sort of compatibility issue with the new iPad .
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
You can use the Universal Access preferences to play the same audio in both channels :
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
Tricky one , but you can rig up a solution - I 'm not sure about the final quality though . First , you need to allow your iPad to use AirPlay Mirroring with your iMac as the target device . To do this , you need to use a program like <URL> ( $ 15 for a single user license ) or <URL> ( $ 15 again , but has a trial at least ) or <URL> ( Free , but not as fully featured ) or <URL> ( Similarly beta ) . Mountain Lion will have this feature built in , potentially . When this installed , check you can get it to work - so ensure the iPad and iMac are on the same wireless network , and turn on Airplay Mirroring , pointing it at the correct host : You should get a window displaying the contents on your Mac . Note , than even if you are using the top of the line iMac , the resolution of the iPad will still be too large to view without scaling , so expect some downscaling , either by the airplay protocol or the receiving app anyway , simply to ensure it fits on your screen . Given a choice , a neat halving to get the original 1024x768 resolution should suffice . The method of doing this will be different depending on which app you end up using . Once you have a window running with out iPad screen in it , you can capture it with Quicktime . I note that you already use ScreenFlow ( which I missed at first ) , so you can do this your own way , but for everyone else you can do it with build in tools like Quicktime . I am going to assume you are on Lion . Open up Quicktime Player , and go Hit the big red recording button , and you get the message Drag a neat square over your Airplay receiving window , adjusting as required to get a neat fit , then hit the record button in the middle , and do your stuff . CAVEAT : Lots of things can affect quality using this method . Your wireless network may be slow , resulting in dropped frames or lag when recording . Your computer may be slow , or busy , resulting in dropped frames etc etc etc. . Quicktime ( if you use it ) is already by definition recording a compressed video , not raw , and it 's using an image source on your screen that is already displaying a video that has been compressed down from Retina resolution to something saner for desktop use . This method works , but the resulting video quality can vary wildly depending on your setup . You can mitigate to an extent with thoughtful configuration of your network and so on , or by using more expensive screen capture solutions that record raw etc , that but is up to you to decide how much quality you need . As it stands , the test video I put up was more than sufficient to be perfectly pleasant on YouTube . Now , time to own up , I can not get it to work with the free versions on offer , but I have in the past , so I 'm throwing the solution up anyway , in case it 's just me being stupid . I have used the trial version ( limited to 10 minutes ) of Reflector though , and created the following video as an example , proving it can be done , but you may need to cough up for paid software to do so : <URL> EDIT : Since this answer was accepted , many of the software solutions listed have included screen recording directly within the airdisplay software , negating the need to arrange a separate quicktime screen recording , and potentially improving quality .
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
According to <URL> The iPad Smart Cover is compatible with iPad 2 or later . Also at <URL> So , the answer , based what Apple has said , is yes , the original Smart Cover will fit both the iPad 2 and the iPad 3 . There are also <URL> <URL> linked in the product page that say that the cover will fit . Edit 9/1/12 : I did mean to update this when I found the link , but I lost it for a time and recently found it again . According to <URL> , some people did ( and presumably still are ) have some trouble with the magnets on the iPad 3 . According to <URL> , Apple changed the polarity of the magnets sometime in 2011 , because " some iPad 2 customers were having issues with their iPads entering sleep mode when they flipped Apple 's Smart Cover around flat behind their iPad 2 " . Marc also reports that " Apple is replacing older Apple Smart Covers at Apple Stores for customers who ask . "
Apple really designed the iPad as a 1-to-1 device ( one device to one person ) so I do n't think there is an EASY way . I know they have deployment products out there that might make it so you can remove and restore profiles , but it 's not on the fly and I think it 's very clunky . I also did a quick Google and noticed this software that is out in beta and is exactly what you want , but it looks quite experimental and your iPad needs to be jailbroken to install it : <URL>
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
Check this thread out <URL> otherwise you might ask directly on askubuntu . You can log in on askubuntu using your stackexchange credentials
I stream music to my stereo via my AppleTV all the time without needing to turn on the TV , and control it via iOS devices . My current setup is AppleTV - > stereo via HDMI , and stereo - > tv via HDMI . The stereo turning on wakes up the AppleTV , but if the stereo is left on , starting to stream something via AirPlay also wakes up the AppleTV .
Open Audio MIDI Setup from Applications > Utilities . Click the + button in the bottom left corner and select " Create Multi-Output Device " . Check " Built-In Output " ( this may already be checked ) and the Soundflower output of your choice . Right-click ( or control-click ) the device you just created and select " Use this device for sound output " .
There are cleaning kits targeted for the iPad that might give you a better result than just a damp cloth . I personally bought the Hama Premium Cleaning Kit for iPad and I 'm quite happy about it . The second parameter in the equation are ofcourse your hands , the dryness/greasiness of your fingers will influence the comfort of the moment . Personally , I 've found that just after washing my hands I feel some resistance when swiping the screen , and it works best with a more natural greasiness .
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
There seems to be a bug whereby if the headphones are plugged in when the MBP is put to sleep and are not present when it is rewakened , the headphones stop being recognized . The solution is to : Unplug the headphones Put the MBP back to sleep ( close the lid ; without an external display hooked up ) Plug the headphones back in Wake the MBP by opening the lid . This should fix the problem .
There are restrictions on Airplay in Mountain Lion . It has to do with your video card that comes on the machines that you are using . Your video card has to be powerful enough to do all the heavy lifting of streaming so that your CPU is unhindered and therefor you can smoothly still use your machine . This <URL> should help you out and explain things and find an alternative , such as AirParrot . Here is an <URL> on the subject , listing the restrictions and giving more information on how Airplay Mirroring works . Here is the excert from the article showing the compatible computers : As for a Mac Pro , they are not listed as a compatible model that supports Airplay Mirroring , as discussed in this article <URL> . You can still connect a cable and mirror in that sense , that has not changed in ML . The mirroring feature of using a separate display is a completely different process than Airplay Mirroring . I hope that this answer helps you out .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
Yes . With many methods of voice dictation , what happens is that your voice is recorded and digitized , and your speech is broken up into phrases which are uploaded over the Internet to a powerful computer server which translates your speech into text and then transmits the text back to your device . However , there is a long history of programs for Mac and PC which perform voice dictation and transcription entirely on your Mac or PC without using an Internet connection . I do n't know of any apps for iOS that perform voice transcription entirely on the device without using a connection to a server on the Internet .
Yes , the GPS does not need cellular data or cellular service to work . It will get better results when GPS is offline if it can poll the location database and trilateralate from both Wi-Fi and cellular towers , but GPS is generally better than the these secondary sources of location data . The phone should connect to Wi-Fi regularly to keep the location database up to date - perhaps while tethered to your iPhone 5 for optimal results . For most situations it will work almost as if it were connected to cellular data and the cellular data switch was off .
Page 27 of the September 2015 <URL> states that there is not a firewall on iOS . On other platforms , firewall software is needed to protect open communication ports against intrusion . Because iOS achieves a reduced attack surface by limiting listening ports and removing unnecessary network utilities such as telnet , shells , or a web server , no additional firewall software is needed on iOS devices .
end question
start question
Should I use my personal Apple ID for development or create a new one ?
There is n't a hard and fast rule , or many convincing arguments in either direction . However , if you eventually want to make money or work with others , or in general grow in that direction , you may find that the ability to keep your personal and work stuff separate to be helpful . A simple example may be that you have personal pictures on iCloud associated with your personal ID , and for whatever reason , you want to give someone complete access to your development account without access to iCloud . Yes , there are other ways to accomplish that , but having the option of two different Apple IDs might come in helpful down the road .
No . The credit shown in the Mac App Store or iTunes App Stores is not spendable from the retail stores or the online store . There is a physical gift card that can be bought for online store or retail store use , but it 's not the same bucket of funds as the iTunes store gift cards . See <URL> for more details ...
You do n't have to create separate Apple ID 's for the iPhone because iMessage also works by using the phone number . However if you have two wi-fi only iPad 's or iPod touch 's then you will just have to use separate e-mail address .
It a not possible to create a non-email address Apple ID any longer . As a matter of fact , they are becoming more and more inconvenient , as various Apple services begin to assume that your Apple ID is an email . If you have not started to notice it yet , trust me , you will , soon . I recently changed my non-email Apple ID to the linked email address . You can change the username of an Apple ID without starting a new account .
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
In your first question you ask : what should be done if there is currently 1 Apple ID ( my account ) that is used for all the purchases and also is used for my iCloud , and I want to add another user to the mix ? To enable you to share purchases the new user will use your Apple ID for the App Store and iTunes . This use would then create a new Apple ID or use an existing one for the iCloud portion . They would assign this Apple ID to iCloud by clicking Settings - > iCloud - > Account . Secondly you ask : What problems will there be if my Apple ID is used for the purchases on all devices and also used for my iCloud account for my user , while a different Apple ID is used for iCloud for a different user ? This is the solution I noted above , and the preferred method . By separating iCloud accounts for each user you 'll have less devices competing for the 5 GB of free space allotted by default . In summary : All devices use Apple ID for Store ( Settings - > Store - > Apple ID ) Your devices would use your Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) Other user 's devices would use a unique Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) There are no drawbacks to sharing an Apple ID and using individual accounts for iCloud .
There is no way to reset your Apple ID security questions online after the Mat Honan hack and its aftermath . I was able to reset my security questions by calling Apple Support on the phone , provided I could remember at least one out of three . However if you ca n't remember any of the three , you might have trouble .
Yes . Log in to the Apple ID that you want to use for iTunes and the App Store in the iTunes &amp; App Store section of settings , then log in to the individual Apple ID for the iCloud account . These will be kept separate and allow individual iCloud accounts but a shared iTunes Apple ID . Also , with the upcoming iOS 8 , you can use <URL> .
Unfortunately the only way to share apps is to use the same Apple ID for purchases on every device . You can use different IDs for iCloud , but you need to sign into the App Store with the same ID . If you 're signed in to the App Store with the correct ID you can download previously purchased apps for free , each person haven their own computer and iTunes library does n't matter .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
Since you did n't mention you had a backup of the system or if you are equipped to troubleshoot a driver issue , you should probably not update things unless you have a problem . Apple vets the drivers it provides to be sure they work well with Mac hardware - so although you are free to update drivers , you are skipping that vetting process . Unless the driver manufacturer messed up , you will should be as fine as any other user updating the driver so it 's more an edge case of them not testing the new driver on Mac hardware than something that should break . Apple 's drivers are typically for the screen resolution , trackpad , system sensors and it 's unlikely those need a change since your Mac hardware has n't changed in most cases .
I do n't think it 'll work . According to the Apple TV 's <URL> , playing protected content ( which I imagine means the one you 'll get from iTunes rentals and Netflix ) requires <URL> , so using a converter box probably wo n't work . At least the ones I 've found online after doing a quick search specifically say they wo n't work with HDCP .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
I do n't think there is any enforced limit for using one account on lots of devices if all you care to do is use Find My Phone . You will run into the 10 device limit if you try to install apps using this ID , but just entering it into iCloud and only turning on FMP ( FMi / FMiP ??! ) should scale past the limits people normally reach when using one ID for multiple devices . Even if you get away with this , your users might get confused or wish to use Find My ... / iCloud themselves and find you have locked their device You might want to reach out to your Apple account rep to avoid running into several anti-fraud efforts that prevent this sort of mass scale deployment if you try to use one Apple ID for say the App Store on so many devices . In addition to that specifically being against the licensing terms , you will face delays if and when this account gets locked , so plan to test things out with a small group ( say 3-8 devices sharing one ID ) as a pilot before you decide how to manage all 100 devices . There are quite a few MDM packages available , but without knowing your specific situation , it will be hard for you to determine if automating some of the management will be a good investment or if you can just use the Apple Configurator to set up your deices and depend on the end users to manage their Apple ID/iCloud accounts and not mess with your one set up to track all the devices .
There is no limit and having more is not necessarily better . Having all your devices registered under one Apple ID has the benefit of having all your purchases pushed to them without having to manage multiple accounts . So your wife can enjoy an app on her iPhone 4 just the same as you can enjoy the same app on your iPad 2 , without needing to purchase the app a second time ( once for reach device ) , or constantly logging in and out of various Apple IDs to install and update . I find it is always better to pool your purchases to one account and register your devices under that single account . Having multiple Apple IDs requires that one micro-manage each account ( iTunes will only check for updates for the current Apple ID ) , which can be bothersome at the best of times and a nightmare at the worst of times . One advantage of having separate Apple IDs , however , is that each account belongs to its respective owner and can be registered to their own payment methods . But if you share your finances , that is of little value to you . iCloud is bound to its respective Apple ID , so if you have just the one , all the features of iCloud would permeate through any device registered to that account . That means if you downloaded an app on your iPad 2 , it would appear on your wife 's iPhone 4 . You would also share documents , pictures , music , etc. ( anything supported by iCloud and expressly enabled by you ) across all your devices as well -- email as well . iCloud would essentially unify them and their content . Multiple Apple IDs are not required . You may also find this article on <URL> ( although somewhat dated when iCloud launches ) .
Firefox <URL> is a shell scripts that will install all major versions of Firefox on OS X , and set up separate profiles so you can use them simultaneously . Currently it installs : Firefox 2.0.0.20 Firefox 3.0.19 Firefox 3.5.9 Firefox 3.6.28 Firefox 4.0.1 Firefox 5.0.1 Firefox 6.0.1 Firefox 7.0.1 Firefox 8.0.1 Firefox 9.0.1 Firefox 10.0.2 Firefox 11.0 Firefox Beta Firefox Aurora Firefox Nightly Firefox UX Nightly You can set it up so it only installs the specific versions you want . Optionally , the script can install Firebug for each version of Firefox too . It will also set icons that contain the version number : Safari For Safari , check out <URL> . Chrome/Chromium For Chrome/Chromium , install any version you want , change the app name from to e.g. for clarity , then <URL> for that version . Opera Download old Opera versions here : <URL> IE Get VirtualBox and then run <URL> . It will automatically download legal Windows images for testing purposes and set up virtual machines for every IE version you need .
The mute-setting does not transfer from the phone to the watch .
Personal Hotspot mode detaches the device from any network and is intended to make all data flow to and from the cellular account . If you pulled the SIM card your plan just might work as a stunt to connect two laptops in the absence of another router , but it certainly wo n't extend an existing wireless network in the manner you describe .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
If it 's a certified apple reseller you will get exactly the same product as when purchasing at www.apple.com or the apple store . If it 's another shop that is not certified by apple , you should ask them ( how are we here supposed to know ? ) . You will get the same level of support . It 's <URL> with 90 days of telephone support .
end question
start question
Is there a complete list of all hidden keyboard shortcuts in OSX ?
Not sure if this is a complete list , but this is a pretty good start from Apple : <URL> Here is another link to an image of the shortcuts : <URL>
I 'm not on El Capitan yet . But if there is a menu bar entry in Safari to create a pinned tab , you can assign a custom keyboard shortcut . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard Select the Shortcuts Tab Select App Shortcuts at the bottom of the list Create a new shortcut : Application Safari The title is the exact name of the menu bar entry Choose a shortcut that you like <URL>
Answers above are old we are at iOS 10 . Google Drive did show and now it has disappeared just after successfully uploading from Photos to my Google Drive . I 'm signed in and can see my drive contents .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
Not sure if this is a complete list , but this is a pretty good start from Apple : <URL> Here is another link to an image of the shortcuts : <URL>
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
Doing Command + Tab will let you go through all the running applications , even if it 's hidden . More tricks are discussed at <URL> .
By default , no . What I 've done is drag folders I access frequently to the Places section in the left side bar . There is software to accomplish this though . <URL> does this , and more . If you 're in a save dialogue you can press / to get a file path dialogue , or press ⌘ + Shift + G to get a " Go to folder " dialogue .
I contacted the <URL> developer and he has added this feature to his tables :
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
There 's no way to do that , alas . <URL> shows an AppleScript that can make playlists from all complete albums , but if you have a lot of albums , it might be overwhelming .
Select the folder you want ( or command + A to select all ) and then press : Command + right arrow And the left arrow undoes what the right arrow did , should you want to close things back up again .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
I found this app . <URL> that allows you to setup email address to send copy of SMS content . SMS are purchased in app . Net Nanny are also bringing out an iOS app to monitor and restrict iOS devices in young persons hands . details <URL> NET NANNY FOR IOS includes Filtering ( 18 categories ) , Age-based Profiles , Safe Search , Profanity Masking , and supports Wi-Fi/3G/4G . NET NANNY SUITE FOR IOS includes all the features of Net Nanny for iOS plus Remote Administration , Reports , Custom Categories , Whitelist/Blacklist . Future releases within the next few months will include Time Controls , Custom Alerts , Reports , and device management tools such as Device Locate and Forced Ring . All new features will be auto-updated for existing users .
Apple provides a list of available keyboards here : <URL> Which ones are available depends on where you are located .
I did not test this myself , as I do not have a Bluetooth keyboard , but I 've seen a few article stating that to send an email you could type CMD - Shift - D.
⌘ Command + ` will cycle between windows of the current application when using i.a. US keyboard .
Perhaps an AppleScript like this one can help . Note that I 'm not really proficient in AppleScript , so I 'm sure this can be improved , but no one has answered so far .
⌘ R or ⌘ ↩ reveals an item in Finder ⌘ I shows an information window ⌘ Y shows a Quick Look window ⌘ D selects a dictionary result ⌘ B selects a web search result ⌘ K selects a Wikipedia result ⌘ T selects the top result ⌘ , opens Spotlight preferences Holding command shows a preview popover Holding option and command shows the full path of a file in a preview popover ⌘ ↓ moves to the next section and ⌘ ↑ moves to the previous section ⌃ ↓ , end , or page down selects the last item
Originally , I did not mean to have subtitles but change mistakes and correct them . My friend says the best tool here is Premier ( Adobe ) . He says that iMovie is difficult to use .
end question
start question
How can I get Nike + to play songs from Spotify ?
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
Things you 've purchased off the iTunes Store can be transferred off your iPhone by right clicking on your iPhone in iTunes and choosing ' Transfer Purchases ' . You might need to Authorise your computer first by clicking the Store Menu , and then choosing Authorise This Computer . For your non-iTunes Store content I 'd recommend <URL> ( read it backwards ! ) which lets you copy music from your iPhone or iPad back to your mac . Senuti costs $ 18 , but there 's a trial version , which can transfer up to 1000 songs . Neither of these require a jailbreak .
Many ports have a + nox11 variant , which you can add as a default variant in the variants.conf file that 's pointed to in your macports.conf file . However , in my experience , there are some X11-dependent ports that do n't have the + nox11 variant . I believe I 've also seen situations in which non-X11-dependet port A depends on port B , and port B is so deeply X11-dependent that it would n't even make sense for it to have a + nox11 variant . Overall , in my experience , it 's practically impossible to keep Xorg from getting installed . :-(
You could use iTunes DJ . Select the playlist that you want from the list in the left-hand corner . Then , you can right click on a song , and select " Play next in iTunes DJ "
It 's possible , but not without third-party software or scripting . You can use the <URL> to set this though : ( go to Vox → Preferences → Controls → Setup )
In Quicktime Player , go to Preferences . Under " Full Screen " , there is a picture of your screens similar to the Displays pane of System Preferences . If you click on a screen , a picture of the QT Player logo will be overlaid on that screen . The screen that has the logo is the active screen for Full Screen Mode . EDIT : I do n't know if you can still do other things while QT Player is full screen .
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
A friend just said : I 'm on a Mac but I shell into a remote server and run irssi in screen , most people I know do that . The second most common , and what I think you are looking for is : <URL>
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
I know that this is an OLD question , but I thought I would add to the answers posted back in 2011 . When it was released you could not open video encoded with ProRes in video players that did not support the Apple QuickTime playback architecture since ProRes was a proprietary Apple encoding format . But in late 2011 an open source decoder became available for <URL> as a compile in option . Just to be clear , ProRes was never intended as a playback format . ProRes was designed as an intermediate codec for use during video recording and editing , and was a replacement for Apple Intermediate Codec . As a result , it was never intended to be used as a " playback " format . That 's why you could only play it back with QuickTime or editing software . For optimal high quality video playback across a variety of video players ( that have the horsepower to play back your video ) you need to encode your video as a H. 264 MPEG-4 video . You will want to set both the temporal and spacial compression to minimum , and make sure that the playback bit rate is not capped in the compression software . H. 264 and MPEG-4 were designed for playback , and that 's why it 's the main format behind YouTube , Blu-ray , and virtual all playback systems in use today . While H. 265 is starting to become more common , it is not yet as widely playable across a variety of devise . If you do want to try and use ProRes as a playback format , then you need to make sure that the player you are using connects to the QuickTime playback codecs , and that you have the <URL> installed on your system . The only video player that I know that will handle ProRes ( other than pro editing systems ) is VLC , and you need to have the ProRes decoder installed to make this work .
There is not a native way to do this in iOS , but there are many possibilities for workarounds . Here 's one : Set up <URL> and install the helper app on your iDevice . Create a rule in Boxcar telling the helper app to get a push notification every time a message is received at the forwarding address provided . If you need help with this , see <URL> . Create a rule ( or whatever they 're called in your email service ) which automatically forwards folders ' new messages to the Boxcar address . If this fix does n't suit you , you may want to do a similar thing with <URL> .
Judging by this <URL> , it seems unlikely an iPhone can use the format directly . Since Opus is not compatible with most popular players and devices so far , it 's absolutely impracticable , no matter directly play Opus files on Windows Media Player , Android , PS3 , Xbox 360 and iTunes or sync Opus to iPhone , iPod , iPad via iTunes , or edit these Opus in iMovie and QuickTime . Under the circumstances , the best solution is to convert Opus to MP3 and other more compatible audio formats in order to play or edit Opus in the above popular players and devices . One of the posters mentioned that <URL> ( freeware ) can convert then to a playable format , MP3 , AAC etc. .
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
Your iPhone 4 supports iOS 5.0 , which can now sync photos wirelessly using <URL> . For setup instructions , see <URL>
Go to System Preferences > Security and check " Require password " There are several selectable time delays if immediate locking is n't what you prefer .
If you do n't mind or are sure your Recovery HD is patched to match the OS on your main system , you can snag a file and see if it works without needing to do a full reinstall of the OS and without needing a restart or an internet connection / saved installer . Use the Recovery partition Many1 system files are also included on the Recovery partition and can be copied over . Mount the Recovery HD Mount the BaseSystem.dmg Copy the file This process can be combined into a single-line command if you have to run it frequently ... Even if you have deleted the binary ( which could happen ) , there is , and several other commands that can stand in for . Reinstall OS X If you 've got the ability to reinstall OS X through the Recovery HD , Internet Recovery or an OS X install media then reinstalling OS X will ' repair ' your install and copy any missing/broken system files back to your system . I recommend that you do a permissions repair using Disk Utility after copying a file manually and then rebooting . If the fix works , now would be an excellent time for another backup snapshot . 1 Not all system files are on the Recovery HD , but many are . If the copying command does n't work , check that the file exists on the Recovery HD .
Upgrade to the latest version of VMWare Fusion , in your situation you will need manually download it as indicated below for the situation you describe in your question : I upgraded to Mountain Lion and now VMware Fusion 4 wo n't start . What happened ? Mountain Lion appears to detect some older versions of VMware Fusion 4 and prevent them from launching . To resolve this issue , login to <URL> ( free product registration required ) and download VMware Fusion 4.1.3 . It can be found under " Products &amp; Downloads > All Downloads > VMware Fusion " According to <URL>
If I understand your question correctly , in the ' music ' section , sort by date added , select the six albums worth of songs and create a New Playlist from Selection ( Cmd-Shft-N , or right-click on selection ) . From that playlist , you should have the view you want .
Straight from the <URL> for that model : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors Looks like that model does not support 4K displays
end question
start question
Can I hide the toolbar in Safari while in Full Screen mode ?
In Safari 10.0.1 on macOS Sierra it is quite simple - you have to uncheck View > Always Show Toolbar in Full Screen to hide the toolbar . <URL>
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
<URL> is the canonical bug reporting mechanism . Once you have submitted an issue , it will be given a " radar " number and you will be treated to possibly the most archaic customer-facing bug reporting interfaces on the planet . You will want to first select a developer account and agree to Apple 's terms . In your case , the free of cost Safari developer program might be very useful if you care to know what changes are in store for Safari . <URL>
Real FullScreen applications will normally run on the Primary Display and they will rarely allow you to configure that . Some applications , however , are running in a " false " full screen , and are just " maximized " applications on top of everything , including the dock and the MenuBar . Some of the latter can be moved by applications like SizeUp and similar ( note the usage of the word ' some ' ) . In order to change what your primary display is , you have to go to System Preferences - > Display and the click on the " Arrangement " Tab . And then you have to click and drag the white menubar to the display you want to make primary . Take a look at the attached picture . Remember you have to click on the white square representing the Menu Bar and drag it to the other . The consequences of doing that is that your Dock and your Menu Bar will be moved onto the other Display .
Not sure if you are asking what they are in Safari . CMD + [ Go back ( or cmd + alt +5 ) CMD + ] Go forward ( or cmd + alt +6 ) But you can make it work using Terminal with following ( Thanks to @Tetsujin research ) Terminal command to re-enable Backspace/Delete as " Back-Button " : Quit Safari , then copy &amp; paste the command in a Terminal window ( Applications → Utilities ) and hit enter . Quit Terminal and restart Safari . Terminal command to undo the set preference :
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
Indeed , the Twitter notifications will always redirect you to the web application , even if you have a native Twitter client installed . In fact , Twitter notifications also work without Twitter.app as long as you have your Twitter account configured . There currently is no way to change this behaviour .
No , but you can get the same effect as I use this app to keep my mac running for a back up at night time <URL>
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
Try <URL> . I replaced the built-in apps switcher with this utility which lets me to view full screen windows including a feature to search active windows by title .
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
No , you ca n't . The only way to achieve some kind of manual ordering is disabling the " Automatically rearrange " option in the Mission Control prefpane , and switching all your apps to fullscreen in the correct order from left to right ( new spaces get added to the right ) . That said , you wo n't be able to move anything left of the first desktop space .
No , however if you were already running ML , and you had a Flash-storage based Mac that supported PowerNap , then it would likely be able to do so as part of it 's ability to automatically download updates etc ( which are provided through the Mac App Store ) when in sleep . Bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy though ;)
Window Menu > Playlist ... Opt ⌥ Cmd ⌘ P
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
Command ⌘ + Down ↓ or Function ( Fn ) + Right → should both work . Fn Right is the built-in key combination that is most equivalent to the End key .
Go to Settings > Messages . There 's an option " Show Preview " there . If you toggle this to off , it will stop showing SMS previews on the lock screen . This will also disable the alert popup when a new SMS arrives and the phone is not locked .
I had this problem with Leopard and it continues in Lion . The only solution that works for me is to reboot . Changing the settings in system preferences does not work on my machine .
end question
start question
Icons for Facetime and the App Store keep re-appearing in my dock after a restart . How can I get rid of them ?
Go to / Library/Preferences ( root library , not ~ ) and locate the file com.apple.dockfixup.plist . Open the file with an application like Dashcode or Textwrangler . Locate the following part under the 10.6.6 section : Delete that section and then save the file ( make sure you keep a backup of the original ) , then either log out and back in , or try .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
The flag icons are located in the file / System/Library/Keyboard Layouts/AppleKeyboardLayouts . bundle/Contents/Resources / AppleKeyboardLayouts-L . dat . The . dat file can be opened/read with the <URL> app . The . dat file is a flag " database " . To access the single flags in GraphicConverter use the pages drop-down menu at the bottom right of the main window . Several input method icons ( e.g. PNGs , TIFFs ) can be found at / System/Library/Input Methods/Input _ method.app / Contents/Resources / ... with Input_method . app one of the various IM.apps in / System/Library/Input Methods . The Custom Input icon may be this one : / System/Library/Input Methods/PluginIM . app/Contents/Resources / Custom.tiff .
This appears to be a recent change to how purchasing functions , added for increased security . <URL> In the past 24 hours , Apple appears to have started prompting iOS devices owners and those with Apple IDs within iTunes to make their accounts more secure , requiring them to pick three security questions and enter their answers when they download a new app . The company is also asking users to enter a backup email address , in order to better protect their device but also their account ( which is tied to Apple 's Retail website and all of its media services ) .
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
Using the terminal , you can try deleting your dock preferences , then restarting the dock : This wo n't affect the contents of your dock , but it will reset the preferences that you 'd normally edit in the Dock panel of the System Preferences . EDIT : Per comments below , apparently this does reset dock contents for some people , but not for others -- not clear why .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
You can disable the XProtect updates in , and there uncheck the box " Automatically update safe downloads list . " Now you can change the version info in
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
Command & #x 2318 ; - drag them off your menu bar , then you should be able to trash them . You might also want to log out and log back in .
If you were running Windows 7 before the reinstall , look for the following folders : \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows Vista before the reinstall , you should look for : \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows XP before reinstalling , look for : \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications These are the default locations for your apps . If you had changed the location of your iTunes folder in your iTunes preferences , you could search your backup copy for a folder called " Mobile Applications " or for the app 's name .
Depending on how your System prefs are set , F3 will do a variety of window-juggling tasks ... If Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard is set to default , with " Use all F1 , F2 ... " unchecked then they will work as stated , if it 's checked you will need to add the Fn key to each of these commands . F3 will toggle Mission Control - all windows of all apps &amp; Desktops spread out so you can see them . Cmd ⌘ F3 will toggle desktop view only . Ctrl ⌃ F3 will show all windows of only the frontmost app * [ this is likely to be the closest to what you need . ] Shift ⇧ F3 will do the same as just F3 ... only really really slowly [ for presentations etc ] Opt ⌥ F3 will bring up Mission Control prefs , where you can tweak other behaviour . You can also go directly to a given tab by right-clicking the app icon in the Dock , though it only shows the frontmost tab 's title for each window .
The behavior you describe is inconsistent . In my experience , sometimes the podcast will continue and sometimes the iOS device will switch to the music app . I believe ( but have n't confirmed ) that this depends on whether or not the podcast app , be it Apple 's or third party , is still considered active by the system . When it occurs I just open my podcast app and playback of the the last podcast resumes ( unless I was streaming it in which case I may have to hit play . ) Because this is a memory management issue there is no way to force the behavior you seek using a dedicated podcast app . However , if you uninstall Apple 's Podcasts you can continue to download podcasts using iTunes and can move them over to your iOS device with a playlist . This solution is less than ideal -- for example you ca n't download fresh podcasts directly to the device . iOS 7 UPDATE : It is my understanding that under iOS 7 you no longer have the ability to listen to podcasts from within the Music app . Perhaps better memory management and multitasking will provide resumed playback more consistently , but it seems that a podcast client ( or listening via Safari ) will be required .
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
Apps are paused when backgrounded and resume when opened . If an app does not correctly resume to the state it was left in , this is something only the developer can fix . It 's not possible to run an app in the background as if it was in the foreground . Apps can only run a limited set of tasks in the background for a short period of time per Apple guidelines , or use structured backgrounding such as Background App Refresh . Also see <URL> .
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
end question
start question
How could one make an automator script to restore all hidden windows quickly ?
This AppleScript should restore all hidden windows . The first action unhides any hidden programs . The second action restarts the Dock , which has the effect of un-minimizing any windows minimized to the Dock . If you particularly want an Automator workflow , give it one action : Run AppleScript , and assign this AppleScript .
When you do on a file , it is immediately unlinked from the file system and gone for good . The Trash is a Finder Idiom that is not available in a unix terminal session . The only way to restore your file is by restoring it from a backup .
<URL> can change key combinations like control + c to command + c everywhere : You can add your own settings in <URL> . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> . You can change text editing shortcuts by creating a DefaultKeyBinding.dict . See <URL> and <URL> . Related questions : <URL> <URL>
Yes , all Safari extensions run equally on Windows and Mac OS , so you do not need to look for platform-specific versions . All Safari extensions ( that use the official extension API ) are required to be written in pure Javascript , so they will work on all platforms .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
As time goes by , you make various edits to a given file , and Time Machine will make progressive backups of that file . Backups continue so long as there is available storage space upon the hard drive . When hard drive space runs out , older file backups are discarded . To perform a restore , one can perform a full system restore , which returns the entirety of your Mac file system contents to the latest files and structure that had been backed up . Alternatively , you can browse through the progressive backups using a Finder-like interface , and choose specific files or folders to restore . For more in-depth descriptions , it is worthwhile to read Pondini 's <URL> .
<URL> can do this quickly . See ? Just click the blur button in the side bar and draw over your image to obscure things . Please note that this app saves files to Evernote by default which can be a problem for sensitive content . You may want to disable it by not signing into your Evernote account or by making the following setting changes : Set to Uncheck
Try this variation on what its stated there : Run bootcamp to allocate the space 2 - Install W7 Go back to OSX ( Install REFIT or similar as bootmanager ( optional ) ) Restore your DMG image over the W7 partition With this you dont need the fdisk commands as bootcamp should mark the partition as active ( bootable ) . This SHOULD work . The problem with the linked page process is that w7 ( just as osx ) is actually in 2 partitions , a small boot one and a large with the OS , your DMG only contains the OS partition .
It could possibly be harmful if the phone overheats , though I spent several months with an older iPhone between my pillow and the bed , plugged in and charging , and never had any problems . Other than that , no .
Both shell - and AppleScripts can be used just about anywhere either is appropriate . AppleScripts work better when talking to apps and user-level system facilities . ( For instance , you can say and it will , or . ) Shell scripts ( you referred to bash ) work better when talking to low-level system objects and Unixy stuff . They 're both interoperable : you can call a shell command from AppleScript with and you can call AppleScript code from the shell with . Further , there 's quite a bit of overlap between the two ( especially when it comes to file system operations ) . There are certainly more resources for learning shell scripting online than AppleScript and it does n't help that AppleScript has a reputation for being a " read-only " language ( i.e. , harder to write than read ) . In any case , the most modern way to do scripting is with Automator , where you can use either shell - or AppleScripting ( or both ) along with pre-built modules from various apps you have installed .
is a binary available in a set of tools <URL> . It can also be installed via Homebrew with . <URL> is a SH shell script that calls AppleScript to create an alias . I 'm including the shell script here for future reference incase it goes missing from the nets .
What starsky_70 is saying is that it is likely that the external drive is formatted NTFS , and out of the box NTFS is read only on Mac OS X . But if you formatted it exFAT then it would be read/write on both operating systems without the need for additional software .
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
The application ( or a third-party ) has to provide support for Automator . It 's not automatic .
With the minimized application selected , start holding the ⌥ alt key before you release the ⌘ cmd key .
I just solved my question . As it turns out , the password is stored in the Keychain Access . I just searched for the server and ticked the " Show password " checkbox on that particular item . Problem solved !
Go to the Window menu and un-check the Application Frame menu item . The palettes will pop to the edges of your screen and the documents will turn into floating windows .
You can add the System files and File visibility attributes to the filter bar : Files that start with a period are still excluded though . This makes Finder show hidden files : <URL> includes system files by default , but it does n't include hidden files unless you specify kMDItemFSInvisible = 1 .
Go to Settings Reset Reset All Settings and the process will start over . You 're not losing content this way , because that 's the 2nd option on that page .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
end question
start question
Does OS X 's terminal app support mouse ?
Indeed , OS X Terminal can receive mouse input through ⌥ - clicking : However , certain Terminal apps do n't receive the passed mouse input . You can install <URL> which will pass mouse events to the terminal . Mouse button reporting . Mouse scroll wheel reporting . Simulated mouse wheel scrolling for programs like ( i.e. any fullscreen program that uses <URL> ) . Terminal profile integration ( with preferences dialog ) . It 's a SIMBL plugin , so you 'll need to install <URL> to make it work . I recommend installing <URL> instead though .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
As stated by patrix : the personal files of other user 's on the same machine are generally stored in the folder for each user . The permissions on these folders are usually set such that they are private to the individual who owns the files . This means you need to use <URL> to elevate your own access levels in order to see their files . If you are truly an admin , using is something that 's ok , but do so with caution . If you are not an admin then you should n't have the proper privileges to do any of this and your repeated attempts to use are logged in the system access log . To simply list files in another user 's home directory ( let 's call them ) you do : The prefix is POSIX shorthand for " home directory of ... " . To browse freely , you can become that user with like so : This makes you , logged in as and in 's home directory . You can now move around , files , files , etc. as .
Running OneNote on Mavericks here , and right now it does not support tablet input in the way you have described ( I wish it did ) . A possible compromise is to run Windows and OneNote in a virtual machine ( or BootCamp ) , but it really depends on your needs and what you 're willing to put up with .
Try option-click , that is , click with option pressed . This works on the command line and also in screen editors , such as and . option-click just sends the appropriate escape sequences to move the cursor to anywhere in the terminal screen . ( To see this working , try it with . )
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
Mac OS X Reference Library <URL> states : CrashReporter performs two useful actions : When a program crashes , CrashReporter will record a crash log ( typically into ~ / Library/Logs/CrashReporter / ) , and inform the user by logging a message to the system logging facility . In addition , if the program that crashed is running as a logged in GUI user , CrashReporter will present the user with a dialog asking them whether they want to submit a bug report to Apple ( see Figure 1 ) . If the user clicks the Report button , CrashReporter displays another dialog that shows the details of the report ( see Figure 2 ) and allows them to comment it before submission . And not much further along , states : In this technote I explain how to interpret crash logs that you have obtained from end users . I believe this implies that the information is not automatically shared with the developer . The developer needs to " obtain " the crash logs from the end users ' ~ / Library/Logs/CrashReporter / folder .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
It turns out Yosemite enables mouse acceleration by default . it can be disabled by typing this in terminal : After changing this setting in Terminal , you 'll need to logout and log back in to your Mac . Relaunching Finder will work too ( option + right-click on Finder icon in dock - > Relaunch )
If you want to create an AppleScript application to put in the Dock you can use the following code in OS X Yosemite ( and latter , I believe ) . In Script Editor , save it as Toggle Grayscale changing the File Format : to : Application You can give the App a different icon via copy and paste into the icon of the App 's Get Info sheet and then drag and drop the App bundle onto the Dock . You 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully . If you 'd like to use a bash script using the code provided by IconDaemon , the following code will toggle between using color and grayscale based on how it 's currently set . <URL>
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
No the first Mac Pro with a USB 3 port is the latest ( 6.1 , late 2013 ) From the <URL> for your particular Mac Pro : Connections and audio Four FireWire 800 ports ( two on front panel , two on back panel ) Five USB 2.0 ports ( two on front panel , three on back panel ) Two USB 2.0 ports on included keyboard Front-panel headphone minijack and internal speaker Optical digital audio input and output TOSLINK ports Analog stereo line-level input and output minijacks Multichannel audio through Mini DisplayPort A quick Google search shows several PCI Express USB 3.0 cards , e.g. , <URL> <URL> <URL>
The simple answer is : Terminal is a terminal emulator -- it 's not an X11 server . It exists to provide a text-based communication end point between your Mac and other machines . Terminal is no more an <URL> server than gnome-terminal on Linux is or cmd on Windows is . Which is to say : it is n't an X11 server at all . You need to be running an X11 server on your local machine to be able to have tunneled , graphical , X11 applications draw their UIs on your Mac . This is n't actually different for Mac from something like Linux , it 's just that Linux , by default , is always running an X11 server for drawing your desktop so it 's handled a little more gracefully than it is on the Mac . You just have to open up your X11 server 's permissions and ssh tunneling and X11 forwarding on a Linux desktop seem to work . The <URL> you run on OS X simply gets you the missing X11 server you need on your OS X session to enable drawing the forwarded UI commands on your OS X desktop . This is n't something an Terminal application ever would , or ever should really , implement . It 's not part of being a Terminal . It 's a wholly separate thing . I also want to address something you said in your question : It would be great to be able to x tunnel over ssh I 'm assuming you mean " it would be great to do X11 forwarding from an ssh session started in Terminal.app to my running XQuartz server " . You can do this ! When you use ssh in Terminal.app simply include the option to enable X forwarding and your Mac will start XQuartz automatically . No need to use the terminal app in XQuartz , which pretty much sucks . You can also edit and add : to that file to enable X forwarding by default for all ssh sessions . You can even launch X programs on the remote machine in to the background like so : That works from Terminal .
ddclient is what I use on my Linux boxes . Works really well . You can find instructions details here : <URL> I think all you would need to do to get ddclient to run is to a @reboot line to your crontab and you 're set . then add this line :
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
end question
start question
Is the white MacBook suitable for software development ?
To elaborate on @ <URL> , a MacBook is perfectly fine for development , I use one myself and never had issues . But you could improve it . Switching to 4GB of RAM would be first thing on the list . Using a second screen could also vastly improve this setup . Another ( bigger ) investment would be to buy a SSD .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
Only the iPhone 5C has any theme support , in that they contain custom wallpaper to match the colour of the device which is selected as a default when first using the device . This themeing does not extend into apps , and is simply a pre-chosen wallpaper . It has no relevance for any other phone model , or iPad .
I use a program called <URL> to mirror my Windows PC to my Apple TV ( third generation ) . There is also a version that works on Macs . Note that the ability to mirror a Mac to an AppleTV is a new feature of OS X Mountain Lion .
A few months ago my organization made the decision to make docking stations a standard item to be ordered with all Macs . We 've evaluated the Belkin Thunderbolt dock , the Matrox DS1 , the Kwikdock , the LandingZone docks and had previously used Henge docks . The Henge docks proved to be a constant pain for both users and our support team . The connections in the bottom of the dock frequently came loose , meaning the end user would lose USB connectivity , network connectivity , etc even though from their perspective the Mac appeared to be docked correctly . The Kwikdock did n't have the build quality we desired . The Belkin Thunderbolt dock and Matrox DS1 dock are both very similar in that they 're a hub that you connect all of your connections to , then connect to your Mac via a thunderbolt cable . The downsides we found to these two were cost the necessity to order a thunderbolt cable in addition to the dock . Our end users are also much more accustomed to the traditional docks offered by Dell and other PC manufacturers , were you click it into place and go . This is the same reason we did n't pre-order a Zendock . We ended up going with the LandingZone . It offers the traditional docking style that our users are accustomed to , the build quality seems to be very good , it 's much cheaper than the alternatives and can be further reduced in cost by ordering in bulk . It DOES require a separate driver for network connectivity but it 's very lightweight and they seem to be committed to providing updates in a timely fashion . I 've deployed about 25 of the LandingZones so far and aside from two support calls where it had n't been locked completely in place I 've only heard good things from my end users . We have yet to receive our 13 " Retina MBP docks but we do have a tracking number so I 'm confident they 'll arrive soon . Hope that helps !
The color-specifc boot screens are only available on the iPhone 5 and later . On these devices , the boot screen will match the colour of the front panel e.g. a white iPhone 5 will display a white screen with a black Apple logo .
Apple 's website has a page dedicated to <URL> for systems earlier than 8.1 . ( They also still have <URL> , but the Downloads link on this page just links to the current OS X downloads page . )
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
If this is a hobby and you are not planning on releasing any apps to the app store , and you can tolerate the slow performance and do n't care about running on real devices , then do n't worry about it . However , if you are creating a business the it is essential to run on real hardware . Any low end Mac ( MacBook Air 11 " , is my current favorite ) will blow away any virtual machine . I have a fairly simple app that runs fine on my iPad and iPod Touch , but has all sorts of graphic anomalies in the simulator .
The Cydia FAQ is probably the best source of information on this topic . See <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : Q : Where do I get started with developing for jailbroken iOS ? A : It helps to know something about developing for normal iOS . You might also check out <URL> . The wiki it points to has several " Quick Start " articles : <URL>
The Mid 2012 MacBook Pro can support up to 16GB of RAM by using 2 8GB kits . Both the Retina and non-Retina models ( mid 2012 ) support 16GB of RAM . Per <URL> , you can have <URL> I have personally used the <URL> modules many times with great results . <URL> Since , you said that you already upgraded your drive to an SSD , I assume you know how to remove the bottom cover to access the memory .
No . The white iPhone 3GS does not have a white face , just a white back cover .
90 ˚c is typical for that system under high load ; anything > than 95 ˚c is when you might want to be concerned . If the CPU gets too hot , or starts to overheat , the system ( typically ) will clock down the CPU to prevent overheating . The fans should n't wear out , so I do n't really see any point in trying to replace what 's not broken . Intel Mac 's run hot , and the fact that the only fan is an output fan does n't help with heat dissipation . Something you could do to help alleviate some of the heat is to download <URL> ( free ) and adjust your fans RPM . Instead of the standard 1800 RPM set it at 3500-3600 RPM , which should help cool down the temp possibly 2-10 ˚c . You might notice more noise from the higher RPM , although you should n't worry about it -- MacBooks fans generally max out at around 6,000 RPM , and I 've cranked one up to 8,700 RPM before .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
It could help if you see kernel_task soaking CPU cycles . From <URL> Activity Monitor may show that a process named kernel_task is using a large percentage of your CPU , and during this time you may notice a lot of fan activity . This process helps manage temperature by making the CPU less available to processes that are using the CPU intensely . In other words , kernel_task responds to conditions that cause your CPU to become too hot . When the temperature decreases , kernel_task automatically reduces its activity . So if your case is more than 10 ° F / 5 ° C warmer than the ambient temperature and you are seeing high CPU/kernel task usage , cooling the bottom case or increasing airflow significantly might actually speed up your Air .
Most typically , it is used for the <URL> , which can control iTunes , QuickTime and various other built in software . Additionally , 3rd party software ( see <URL> and <URL> ) also makes use of the device and can tie in much more functionality . In the past ( prior to Lion ) , the Apple Remote was an excellent companion to <URL> , a media manager that some call the predecessor to the Apple TV interface .
There are a great many games that support 2880x1800 and most of them support 2560x1600 ( Cinema , Dell , and HP 30 " resolutions ) Windows 7 &amp; 8 do n't support the quad-pixel and dual-pixel modes of OSX , they do things a bit differently . You always have the 2880x1800 resolution , and simply select larger font size ( 150 % in my case ) . Most games will work out fine , but some will need some tweaking ( mostly selecting the option Disable display scaling on high DPI output on the compatibility tab . If you regularily use an external monitor i would reconsider the retina display . Having upgraded to it from a 17 " i5 I found out the hard way that neither OSX nor Windows can display different DPI to 2 monitors , hence my 30 " Dell is pretty much useless .
The built-in AirPrint does n't allow this sort of functionality as of iOS 4 , but if you get the <URL> , you should be able to do B&amp;W printing and manage other settings . This of course only works if you have an AirPrint/ePrint HP printer , it wo n't work with any other printer that you 've hacked to set up with AirPrint .
end question
start question
SSD Sleep or Shut Down ?
Unless you do some serious data crunching with your Mac , you should n't need to worry about SSD wear . It does happen , but any relatively recent SSD does a lot to combat it , both by minimizing write amplification , and by setting aside spare area to do wear levelling and compensate for bad flash . If you 're really worried about it , you can still sleep , but not use hibernate mode , meaning that nothing gets written to disk . Just open Terminal and run . You can then delete the sleep file to free up some space : .
Unless you do some serious data crunching with your Mac , you should n't need to worry about SSD wear . It does happen , but any relatively recent SSD does a lot to combat it , both by minimizing write amplification , and by setting aside spare area to do wear levelling and compensate for bad flash . If you 're really worried about it , you can still sleep , but not use hibernate mode , meaning that nothing gets written to disk . Just open Terminal and run . You can then delete the sleep file to free up some space : .
Currently , there does n't seem to be a way to prevent iTunes from pulling in the voice memos . The closest I 've been able to figure would be to have a script or launchd item that simply removes anything that it sees . Preferable copying them to another directory for storage .
You can place the Mac in whatever orientation you like during clamshell mode as long as it 's supported and protected from falls . I really like the Book Arc stand so that the trackpad area is by the table and all the warmer section near the hinge is up and exposed on all sides to airflow . If you really need maximum cooling , try the <URL> . Your proposed mechanism should be measurably cooler when you have the CPU generating maximum heat and for some reason the airflow / ambient temperature was n't cooling things as much as you had hoped . The air trapped in the LCD panel can have a fairly good insulation value and if the surface is soft , airflow under the feet is diminished . The Apple fans are high quality and likely magnetically suspended or have so little play it 's not a concern unless you have shocks or other accelerations .
You can safely leave your Mac powered on all the time . Safe and Harmless There is no practical damage or harm that will occur because the Mac is constantly running . Use your Mac as best suits your needs . Restarting is helpful every so often -- if only to install updates and clear out caches or temporary files . Environment As <URL> , environmental factors like dust and heat build-up should be considered . Keep your Mac away from sources of dust , like limestone or sandstone walls , where the fans can draw in <URL> of particulate matter .
If you have any interest in running shell script the following will work . Just set the " Display_Sleep_Time " and " System_Sleep_Time " as you want them to be along with the " App " you are choosing to prevent sleep on . By launching the script anytime you run your app your all sleep times will be turned to 0 preventing both your display and system from sleeping . TESTED ON 10.5.x 10.6.x 10.7.4 NOTE : WARNING THIS SCRIPT DOES CONTAIN AN INTERNAL LOOP . You may prefer to utilize the following script inside a Daemon rather than use the internal loop the script provides . However , the same concept applies .
Just managed to upgrade my Late 2012 Retina Macbook Pro using a Samsung mSATA 512GB SSD and an 7 +17 pin adapter like this one : <URL> WORKS ! PS . Use " sudo trimforce enable " in the Terminal , to get trim and full speed . PS1 . Newer Retina Macbook Pros use the 18 +8 pin adapter like this one ( do n't know if they fit , late-2012 Retinas have a lot of room unlike the newer models ) : <URL>
No , it 's only recommended when unplugging the cable . The reason why you eject is so that any processes reading and writing from the disk will cause OS X to notify you of the disk being in use and prevent data corruption that can occur by just unplugging the disk while it 's in use . Additionally the OS might queue different write operations to a cache before actually writing them to disk , and ejecting will make sure these are flushed to the drive before it is disconnected . Halting any processes from reading/writing to the disk and flushing the caches is implied when rebooting or shutting down the machine ( unless you do a cold shutdown by pressing and holding the power button to turn it off ) . When logging out , the OS can flush the cache at its own discretion .
FileVault 2 encrypts the filesystem at a block level . Despite the data being encrypted the cache in your disk should still be able to work out that particular blocks are being accessed more often and cache them in the SSD .
A simplified answer to SSD lifetime would be : SSD is a Semiconductor devices build to last minimum 10 Years . Some of us still have computers from year 2000 or even before , thus older than 14 years . With that said , looking closer at the SSD , it is a flash memory type semiconductor device and could develop leaking currents ( means the cells loose they charge ( memory ) . There is difference in life ( quality ) of SSD 's depending on manufacturer ( Intel , Samsung ect . ) . To my knowledge , Intel is still the front runner on quality = life time , but Samsung is chasing them . It is really difficult to say who is the best , but one can use the warranty as a guide . For example Samsung gives 5 Years on the 840 model . That means it will last minimum 7-10 years , otherwise they would be out of business replacing all dead SSD 's . Just to clarify , I am talking about the most common type of SSD ( using the Single layer memory cells ) , the dual layer lasts even longer but it is much more expensive . Apple , Crucial , OWC ect . do NOT make the actual memory chips . The buy them from Semiconductor manufacturer like Samsung or Intel ect . and make the SSD boards with they name on it . However , do not panic , the drives have a self repair capability ! They do that by simply replacing the dead cells . The problem is there is limited supply ( reserve ) of new cells . One of the biggest life limiting factor is the amount of data stored . Let 's say when the SSD is 90 % full , it will become a problem soon , since the drive tries to rotate the cells to preserve/avoid memory leakage . Second life factor is the daily usage ( read/write ) . Again , do not panic , a " normal " user will never see that problem . All in all the SSD should last you longer than your computer screen or keyboard ! SSD are sensitive to heat ( as any Semiconductor device ) and will loose life if operated at elevate environment temperatures , means they love cold environment . Does not mean you have to move to Alaska :) . Just to give you an idea . Why do you think Intel invented the so called " I " processors they call it Intelligent CPU . Great Marketing by the way . The actual reason is the CPU becomes too hot if it operates at 100 % all the time . Same applies to the SSD chips , so keep them cool and do not overload your drive and it will last and last . And ! , try not to use to much of the SSD health test softwares . That just stresses you SSD unnecessary . It would be the same if you would constantly go to a doctor to verify if you healthy and he would give you a xray scan each time , just to tell you you are fine ( but to much xray exposure will kill you ) .
Great question . This was one of my first confusions about the Finder when switching to Mac . Here 's what I think : On other operating systems , the program menu is contained in the active application window . As such , each window is in essence a full instance of the program . ( There 's not as much integration with Windows Explorer , as there is with Finder on Mac OS . It ' a tiny difference , but it really alters user experience . ( My proof is the fact that you 're asking this question . ) By contrast , on Mac OS X , the menu bar in the Finder is where all Apps ' menus go . All running programs are tied to the Finder in a different way than on other operating systems . On Mac , a program may have auxiliary windows and such . In other operating systems , you generally have similar " panels " in their own window . Also , remember that the yellow and green buttons only effect the window that they 're in , so it seems odd to group a control that effects the entire app with two that only effect one window . Therefore , the " red dot " only affects the active window . One notable exception is the Mac App Store . In that case , you are one hundred percent correct . Clicking the red dot closes the entire app . Notice how the App Store has no auxiliary menus or panes ? Closing that Window does indeed mean you 're exiting the app .
No , I have suffered some Game Center outages in the past , but could not find a source directly from Apple which stated so , not even the iCloud status page . The <URL> now lists the status for all Apple internet services , including Game Center .
Resume , counterintuitively , does not actually save anything itself . It simply relaunches all the applications that were running when you shut your computer down . It 's the job of those Lion-compatible applications to restore their windows . Safe sleep , on the other hand , saves a snapshot of your RAM to your HDD when you put your computer to sleep . In case of power failure , the machine boots from this file on startup . Safe sleep is the only time ( that I know of ) that OS X saves its RAM . You can use the command line utility ( specifically the command where is the sleep mode ) to change the sleep mode , although there is no significant benefit in doing this . The three main different kinds of sleep are as follows ( from the page ) : hibernatemode = 0 ( binary 0000 ) by default on supported desktops . The system will not back memory up to persistent storage . The system must wake from the contents of memory ; the system will lose context on power loss . This is , historically , plain old sleep . hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . hibernatemode = 25 ( binary 0001 1001 ) is only settable via pmset . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will remove power to memory . The system will restore from disk image . If you want " hibernation " - slower sleeps , slower wakes , and better battery life , you should use this setting . As I stated before , configuring the sleep mode is not recommended ( again from the page ) : We do not recommend modifying hibernation settings . Any changes you make are not supported . If you choose to do so anyway , we recommend using one of these three settings . For your sake and mine , please do n't use anything other 0 , 3 , or 25 . I do n't know about the script vs. user issue , although I highly doubt there is a difference .
It depends on your paranoia level . Because of the way SSDs handle writing data , doing a zero-once on an SSD is not as good as doing so on a hard drive . When you write a particular data page on an HD , the new data is simply written over the old data , replacing it . Write zeros over the whole disk and all the old data will be gone . SSDs , on the other hand , can not simply overwrite individual pages . In order to replace the data on a page , the old data must first be erased , and SSDs can not erase individual pages ; they have to erase entire blocks consisting of many pages . So what happens when you ask an SSD to overwrite , say , page # 5 , is that the SSD leaves the data on page # 5 alone , but marks it as invalid , allocates another currently-blank page ( say , # 2305 ) , writes the new data to page # 2305 , and makes a note that next time the OS asks for page # 5 it should get # 2305 instead . The original page # 5 data sits there until some later time , when the drive needs more space , moves any remaining valid pages away from the block , and erases it . SSDs have more physical memory capacity than they expose to the computer , so they can juggle blocks like this for a while before actually having to erase anything ( and when they do actually erase something , there 's no good way to predict which blocks of leftover data will be chosen for erasure ) . See <URL> for way more details ( warning : it 's fairly long , and the relevant stuff is spread around ) . Net result : if you write zeros over the " whole " drive , you have n't actually overwritten all the old data . You have updated the controller 's translation table so it 'll never return any of the old data to the OS ( those pages are all invalid ) . But if someone 's hardcore enough to bypass the controller , they could get some of your data back . Overwriting twice will probably work , but it depends on the controller 's allocation strategy . Overwriting twice with random data ( ) is a little more likely to work , but still not guaranteed . Both of these also have some bad side-effects : they uses some of the lifetime of the drive , and also increase the logical fragmentation on the SSD , decreasing its write performance . Note that recent versions of OS X 's graphical Disk Utility disable the secure erasure options on SSDs ( for the reasons discussed above ) , but the command-line version still allows them . BTW , I have also seen several recommendations to securely erase SSDs by converting them to encrypted format , but this is ( if anything ) slightly less secure than overwriting with random data . The best way to secure-erase an SSD is to invoke the controller 's built-in secure-erase feature . This should ( if the controller designers did their jobs ) truly erase all blocks , and also have the side-effect of resetting the logical page map , essentially defragmenting it and restoring its original performance . Unfortunately , most of the utilities I 've seen for doing this ( e.g. <URL> ) run under DOS , which wo n't boot on a Mac . I did find a <URL> with ( rather complex ) instructions for doing a secure erase from a GParted boot CD . It might also be possible to <URL> from a <URL> , but I have not tried this . Researchers at the Non-Volatile Systems Lab at UCSD have tested various ways of sanitizing SSDs by " erasing " the drive , then disassembling it to bypass the controller , and checking for remnant data ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Their results mostly agree with what I said above ( and also show that the built-in secure-erase command is n't always implemented properly ) : Our results lead to three conclusions : First , built-in commands are effective , but manufacturers sometimes implement them incorrectly . Second , overwriting the entire visible address space of an SSD twice is usually , but not always , sufficient to sanitize the drive . Third , none of the existing hard drive-oriented techniques for individual file sanitization are effective on SSDs .
There is no built in concept of a menu in the dialogs-alerts within the AppleScript language . The closest you could do would be to name some dummy files ( in a temporary folder ) with the appropriate action and have the user choose the file labeled with the action you wanted to perform . A horrendous " solution " to a problem that needs a cocoa menu - whether you make it in Xcode or someone else does - Xcode/IB is the tool that creates a menu . MacRuby is a nice way to script an app that needs a more full featured UI than AppleScript . You do n't need Xcode/IB to ruby up an app from pure script . You could create a NIB using Interface Builder and script it all using AppleScript , but the nib defines the menu itself - not AppleScript ( even if AppleScript can populate or delete the menu items at run time ) .
Encryption happens on-the-fly . If the data was written to the hard drive , then passed through an encryption algorithm that then deleted the written data and re-wrote it , encrypted , that would be hella inefficient , and would largely defeat the purpose . I think the answer to your question is no , but of course remember that if you 're going from a data set that 's not yet encrypted , then all of that data needs to be processed , so that initial process of reading , encrypting and re-writing data will have an effect .
Yes , it 's possible to replace your internal SATA drive with an SSD . <URL> guide to make sure you have all the tools/space to do that , it 's not hard , but it requires you to be careful and do it with patience , especially when removing the screen ( which must be done using suction cups ) . You can replace the Optical Drive with a Data Doubler and install any SATA drive in it . For example using the <URL> . Plan all this ahead , since you only want to do the iMac disassembly once . ;) Make sure that the Data Doubler is compatible with your model ( if not available you might have to wait a few weeks before they release a compatible model , it has always been like that ) . That way you 'll have an additional SSD Drive . Regarding the second part of your question , yes , you can either put the original drive ( 1TB ) in the Optical Drive and put the SSD where the original HDD was or you can install the SSD in the Data Doubler and boot from there . You can always install OS X in the SSD , boot from it , migrate some information from your 1TB drive and when you 're ready , format the old 1TB drive and use it as a secondary drive for whatever evil purposes you want , like to store your Home Folder ( search Ask Different for instructions on how to do that ) .
Shutdown vs. Sleep is a constant question . It used to be that shutting down the early OS X machines caused issues with timed log cleanup routines . That 's pretty much a non-issue these days as the OS recognizes when the routines have n't run and will reschedule them . Another concern has been restarting to free up memory or just make the machine more stable . This has been overcome to a degree by the sandboxing of apps so that they do n't intrude on each other 's memory footprint , etc. . The other big consideration is cost . Apple does a good job of making sleep efficient , but it is still uses 4x-5x more power than shutdown ( also known as idle ) . This is dependent on your Mac ( iMac = 4x and Mac Mini = 5x ) . You can read more about this on <URL> and select the report for your Mac . Also , shutting down a Mac still causes some power drain and is referred to as " idle " by Apple . Consider that it always needs power because you can set your Mac to automatically shutdown at a certain time and startup at a certain time ( System Preferences > Energy Saver > Schedule ) . For me , I set automated sleep and wake times and almost never reboot .
The Retina MacBooks use a format of SSD that can be replaced , but Apple does not make it especially easy for simple replacement . Rather than the more familiar 2.5 " HD format you might be familar with , the Retina use a newer blade style , somewhat similar to memory modules . Your best bet it to look over the ifixit guides , to see what is involved : <URL> As far as I know , Apple offers repair and replace service for a Retina laptop , but I have not seen them offer ' upgrade ' service . You could always complain about issues , and ask them to replace it with a newer , and larger size , but they would only do that if the part was orginally offered as an option on the Retina . Good Luck !
To turn off the power to your " self made USB cooling fan " ( nice one ) you need to put the mac mini to hibernate mode not to sleep mode . In Terminal ( found in ) type
end question
start question
Is there an app that will convert a movie to an image sequence ?
Yup , you still can do it with Quicktime Player . Download it from <URL> . I believe you can also install it from the Snow Leopard install disc . I 'm not sure about the Lion install download . Open the movie and click File > Export : Then you can select Movie to Image Sequence : Set your destination folder and watch Quicktime Player do its magic .
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
I dug around for quite a long time to find this answer and finally found out that under the info box , there is a drop-down menu in the Info box under Info > Options : And the drop-down menu allows you to choose where it will show up : All that converting was done for nothing ...
Not without a jailbreak . If you get a jailbreak there are various ways to do things such as switch airplane mode on/off , adjust screen brightness , turn wifi/3G on or off . The app <URL> is one such example . You 'd be better off diagnosing your AP problem than jailbreaking your phone for just this feature though in my opinion .
As of now , there is no API for Apple developers to use to connect to Siri . That may or may not be changed in the future ; see e.g. . <URL> for discussion .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
You can pause the download while it 's in the " loading " stage by tapping the app icon ( tap again to resume ) , but I could n't find a way to actually cancel the download .
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
MS Entourage <URL> , I do n't know if its replacement ( MS Outlook ) still does . Either way , you 'd need MS Office to use it , which probably is n't what you want . <URL> also suggests a way to achieve something similar to it with Mail.app and Safari , but I have n't tried it to see how well it works .
Edit : It looks like there is a solution described <URL> . I do n't know of a solution , but I 'd bet if anything could do this , it would be <URL> . Ukelele can assign multiple-character strings and can create " dead keys " , where a keystroke sets a new state that modifies the output of the following keystroke . Possibly combined with an Automator app . The initial keystroke C-x initiates the app , it captures the secondary keystroke ( C-s ) , uses a lookup table to convert C-s to CMD + s , and then passes that to the foreground app .
This seems like it would be a good solution for you . No installation required , it should run on almost any desktop . <URL> This product also may meet your needs . <URL>
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
Depending on the App on the Phone , there may be an export option for streamed files . An alternative might be to extract the desired file ( s ) from the iPhone backup on your computer . Once you have the ( large ) stream file on your Mac ( ? ) , you can extract the desired tracks from the file . For lossless MP3 editing you might want to try Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> or Macsome <URL> ( free ) .
You can alternatively try to insert your signature in a blank pdf document , crop to take only your signature and then save the document as a PNG file . FYI , it 's seems that the signature is stored in a . plist file . The file name is " com.apple.Preview.signatures.plist " and it 's in folder : / Users/YourAccount/Library / Containers/com . apple.Preview / Data/Library/Preferences / Hope this helps !
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
If you use Disk Utility to image an HFS filesystem into one dmg file , the resulting file is portable no matter what filesystem you store it on . Where things get complicated is incremental backups . If you want incremental backups and a DIY solution , choose a sparse disk image and use rsync to update the band files that you store on NTFS , just like Time Machine does to Time Capsule . If you really just want a painless backup solution , you might select a professional tool set such as ( in alphabetical order ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Since I listed some of the more popular incremental backup software packages ( some are hosted , some you can self host ) , the one that seems to fit your requirement the best is the free CrashPlan software that would be self hosted and need a computer connected to the NTFS drive to host the Mac data as a backup destination .
The application <URL> ( $ 5 , Many Tricks ) tracks the amount of time you spend in each application ( and each window within an application ) .
Safari downloads every file that it is not able to read ( which is pretty much anything but website-formats such as html , css , xml ) There are some plugins that open special formats . The first result from google is this one <URL>
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
end question
start question
Can the 3rd party apps be mirrored on Apple Tv ?
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
Yes - <URL> supports gestures . So do <URL> and <URL> . As you correctly realised the answer is no for Safari , unless you count the four-finger swipe up to get to the current app list , and other system gestures .
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
I stream music to my stereo via my AppleTV all the time without needing to turn on the TV , and control it via iOS devices . My current setup is AppleTV - > stereo via HDMI , and stereo - > tv via HDMI . The stereo turning on wakes up the AppleTV , but if the stereo is left on , starting to stream something via AirPlay also wakes up the AppleTV .
Really , the only difference is that the UI ( User Interface ) will be different between the Apple TV and the PS4 . UI is the arrangement of any virtual objects that the user interacts with , so virtual buttons , menus , etc. will vary from platform to platform . Honestly , if you want to use it JUST for Netflix , what you have is probably fine , at least not worth spending an extra $ 69 over . However , Apple is rumoured to unveil a new Apple TV very soon , which could have new features like a touchscreen remote , 4K support , a dedicated App Store , and more . So at least wait until Wednesday to make your final decision . You can read all all the rumours about a new Apple TV <URL> . And watch the Keynote on Wednesday , September 9 at 12 PM CDT <URL> .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
Unfortunately not , certainly not wirelessly . What you need to do is wait for iOS5 ( on the understanding that your phone will support this ) , for the implementation of the new " screen mirroring over airplay " functionality .
Yes it can . Only exercise uses heart rate currently to gauge effort . The accelerometer for standing ca n't really tell why your hand moves when it is checking for sedentary conditions .
Yes , however you will need to set up a provisioning profile and add each device you are installing you app on ( you are allowed to provision 100 devices ) . You do need to join the iOS Developers program for this to work ( $ 99 per year ) . Once you join the developer program you can set up your provisioning profile from the provisioning portal ( <URL> ) there is an Assistant to walk you through the process ( which IMO is a PITA ) .
apple.com , ipad for business : <URL> From disabling Safari completely ( ) to functional options : Enable autofill : When this option is off , Safari does n't remember what users enter in web forms . Force Fraud warning : When this option is off , Safari does n't attempt to prevent the user from visiting websites identified as being fraudulent or compromised . Enable JavaScript : When this option is off , Safari ignores all javascript on websites . Block pop-ups : When this option is off , Safari 's pop-up blocking feature is disabled . Accept cookies : Sets Safari 's cookie policy . Choose to accept all cookies , accept no cookies , or reject cookies from sites not directly accessed . Thereby you can limit the iPad to only apps ( and webapps ) installed by you .
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
This is one of the preferences that Server can manage using the managed preferences ( sometimes referred to as MCX on older servers and now called profiles on Lion and later for servers ) . Here is a short Apple document covering the high points on how to use managed preferences and the workgroup manager . This would be a good , safe item to test with in getting started with WorkGroup Manager and a couple of lightly used Macs . <URL>
No , previous versions of the AppleTV do not support the new Apple Music service . In order to use the service with AppleTV , you 'll need to either 1 ) stream from a compatible device , such as an iPhone / iPad / Mac , or 2 ) upgrade to the latest 4th generation AppleTV .
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
On your Mac , enable photo sharing in iTunes . Do n't know why you have to use iTunes - I guess ATV does n't know how to read the iPhoto library directly . I 'm not in front of my Mac , but you can Google the photo sharing menu command if it 's not obvious . On the ATV3 , go to the Computer menu/icon , click on your computer name if needed , then go to Photos . Your shared albums should be in there . From the main Settings menu/icon , you should be able to select one of your albums to use as the slide show . That said , it 's easier to use Photo Stream ! Let me know if you need help with that .
The standard iPad charger is 2.1 Amp at 5V . The 1amp is for iPhone and charges slowly , or not at all if you 're using it at the same time . The 2Amp one will charge it much faster . Works very well with iPhones too . <URL>
Even if the AppleTV functions without the HDMI connected , you will have no way to figure out what 's going on when you have problems or when the AppleTV pops up a dialog such as the " Update available , update now or later ? " dialog . I suggest you sell the AppleTV and buy an Airport Express , which is designed to do what you 're trying to accomplish . The Airport Express can be managed by any computer on the same network . Yes , you will lose a little money this way but you may find that it 's no more than you plan to spend on the converters and cables for the AppleTV .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
end question
start question
Are Macs vulnerable to the Bash shellshock bug ?
Yes you are technically vulnerable . So if you feel like panicking or billing a panicked client for a few hours of panic work , go for it ! But the reality is unless you allow SSH access from remote connections or a web server that runs server side scripting , you are not at risk . You are only truly vulnerable if someone you do not know can remotely access your machine &amp; do so in a way where a Bash command can be executed . Meaning your desktop Mac -- which really does not run server applications of any kind -- is not at any serious risk . I am willing to eat some proverbial " humble pie " here , but I do not think the majority of Mac users out there will be at risk at the end of the day . So this issue is mainly of concern to system administrators on Mac OS X &amp; Unix/Linux servers exposed to the world , not desktop users who do not enable SSH sharing . Perhaps there is an edge risk of a Mac malware or virus being created to exploit this risk , but I doubt it . EDIT : And just to elaborate how this issue is -- in my humble opinion -- not really an issue to most average users , yes I can run the following command from on Mac OS X 10.9.5 : And I see this : Guess what ? That is only terrifying if you do n't rationally think this out . I had to already have been logged into my Mac to even open the Terminal . And to negate what I said about SSH above , to even get to the point I can run this test even if SSH is enabled I would still have to be logged in to begin with . And then -- let 's say I get access via SSH -- the command does not allow me to do ANYTHING past my normal user rights such as this : Meaning if you truly are vulnerable to being exploited by this hack , your core security on the system would have to be so compromised that the fact that has a flaw is really the very least of your issues . This is a concern from an overall control &amp; rights issue as it as the potential to allow unintended access since the behavior extends outside of expected norms . But in my humble opinion , it is not a risk on par with OpenSSL or the garden variety " let me leave my password on a note taped to my screen " risks . At the end of the day I am still patching all of my Linux/Unix servers I run as standard procedure . And will happily patch the Macs I manage once a fix is out . But for practical day-to-day use I feel fine not worrying about this since I do not understand how a flaw that does not allow for elevated user privileges adds up to anything . UPDATE : Official word from Apple <URL> ; emphasis mine : " The vast majority of OS X users are not at risk to recently reported bash vulnerabilities , " an Apple spokesperson told iMore . " Bash , a UNIX command shell and language included in OS X , has a weakness that could allow unauthorized users to remotely gain control of vulnerable systems . With OS X , systems are safe by default and not exposed to remote exploits of bash unless users configure advanced UNIX services . We are working to quickly provide a software update for our advanced UNIX users . " Translation : What I said above about this being a server issue &amp; not a client issue ? Exactly . A FINAL UDPATE : For anyone struggling with compiling from source , as of September 29th , Apple has officially released patches for Mac OS X 10.9.5 , 10.8.5 as well as 10.7.5 : <URL> <URL> <URL> YET ANOTHER FINAL UPDATE : And now , Apple has just released a combination security update today that <URL> ! Note : Security Update 2014-005 includes the security content of OS X bash Update 1.0
I think this Apple support article has the list you 're looking for . It is updated as changes are made : <URL> And StartCom is on there .
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
That DL article works for me on 10.10 - Do you have another browser or computer to do the download ? If not , you might have to go to a friend 's or Apple Store and get help directly from the genius bar . There is no charge for in-store help and you probably can resolve this with a USB stick and a different browser/OS combination . Also , I 've put a <URL> , but you really , really should n't trust internet downloads unless <URL> and are confident it 's as safe as what you 'd get from Apple directly .
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
There is language saying you ca n't resell the sounds , but you are granted license to use them royalty free for some very specific uses and not at all in broad general terms . I am not a lawyer See the section below from the <URL> c ) Soundtrack Pro . You may use the Apple and third party audio file content ( including , but not limited to , the built-in sound files , samples and impulse responses ) ( collectively the " Audio Content " ) , contained in or otherwise included with the Apple Software , on a royalty-free basis , to create your own original soundtracks for your film , video and audio projects . You may broadcast and/or distribute your own soundtracks that were created using the Audio Content , however , individual audio files may not be commercially or otherwise distributed on a standalone basis , nor may they be repackaged in whole or in part as audio samples , sound files or music beds . Pretty much anything license related from Apple gets <URL> fairly quickly after launch ( FCP X cough , cough ) A lawyer would be needed to tell you if embedding them in a flash game would fall under " film , video and audio projects " . One would hope if your flash game embedded a movie sequence or soundtrack as part of the narrative , everyone here might call that as " in bounds " or " in the spirit " . Just taking the whole sounds ( or even samples of those sounds in isolation and not mixed down ) and using it for actions or events in a flash game seems to be more like repackaging as audio samples which seems clearly " out of bounds " . I would purchase a set of sounds that are expressly marketed as for use in software rather than something intended for original soundtracks unless my lawyer gave me the explicit go-ahead .
You can use <URL> to hide status menu items and menu extras . Many applications have options to disable opening them at login or to hide the status menu items . You can also remove login items from System Preferences .
You can use the AppleScript command to run a command in a new Terminal window : It does n't start a second process or instance for Terminal though . On OS X there is typically only one instance for each application , even though you can use to open another instance .
All versions before OS X 10.6 " Snow Leopard " have the year 2038 problem . Most installs of 10.6 and all installs of 10.7 " Lion " fixed the main cause of the problem . It 's almost gone , but the year 2038 bug might survive in a few apps . OS X is derived from Unix by way of BSD . Apps for OS X use BSD system calls for things like opening files and connecting to the internet . BSD has a long history and some of its system calls come from the 1980s . One of its system calls is <URL> , which first appeared in 4.1 cBSD . UC Berkeley <URL> , more than half a century before 2038 . I have an old PowerPC Mac . It runs OS X 10.4 " Tiger " , the last version with Classic . It has . Its is a signed 32-bit integer . This causes the year 2038 problem . A signed 32-bit has a range of -2147483648 to 2147483647 . This can only hold times from 1901-12-13 20:45:52 UTC to 2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC . When overflows , will inform programs that today is Friday the 13th of December 1901 , not Monday the 19th of January 2038 . The fix is to transition from 32-bit to 64-bit . For OS X , this transition happened along with another transition from 32-bit pointers to 64-bit pointers , but 64-bit pointers require a 64-bit processor . Apple has only provided 64-bit for 64-bit processors . It is possible for 32-bit processors to handle 64-bit , but Apple never provided that feature . Apple 's compilers have supported 64-bit integers on 32-bit processors since OS X 10.0 " Cheetah " . That version defined as 32 bits and as 64 bits . In Unix and BSD , is the size of a file , or an entire disk of files . A 32-bit would limit OS X to disks under 2 GiB . Apple defined as 64 bits , so OS X worked with larger disks . Apple defined as 32 bits in 10.0 , so a transition to 64-bit needed to happen later . For my old PowerPC Mac , the header file <URL> defines as . For Intel Mac , the header <URL> does the same . In OS X , has the same size as a pointer . So when pointers became 64 bits , also became 64 bits , and also became 64 bits , fixing the main cause of the year 2038 problem . Apple 's <URL> says , " Prior to OS X v10 .6 , all applications that shipped with the operating system were 32-bit applications . Beginning in v10 .6 , applications that ship with the operating system are generally 64-bit applications . " I know from <URL> that 10.6 required an Intel processor and 10.7 required a 64-bit Intel processor . A Mac running 10.6 on a 32-bit Intel processor must have had 32-bit apps . I conclude that most Macs running 10.6 and all Macs running 10.7 have 64-bit apps with 64-bit pointers and 64-bit . Apple released 10.7 in 2011 , well before January 2038 . With 64-bit , the year 2038 bug is almost gone , but it might survive in a few apps . Old 32-bit apps might still run on newer systems . Also , 64-bit apps might contain coding mistakes or outdated designs , causing them to convert a 64-bit to 32 bits . This is a problem for all systems , not only macOS . The kernel of OS X is a hybrid of BSD and Mach . The BSD part of the kernel handles files , internet and such , but the Mach part handles time . I guess that some apps can bypass BSD and get the time from Mach . This would avoid the year 2038 bug . Apple 's Carbon and Cocoa libraries probably get the time from Mach . I know much less about Mach than about BSD . ( This last paragraph is probably wrong , I need to correct it . )
Synology DiskStation The Synology DSM software has built-in support for Macs including Apple Fileshare Protocol ( afp ) and Time Machine support . It has an iTunes server in addition to a regular DLNA Media server . As it is Linux based it is easy to configure the NAS to do rsync backups ( ssh login ) . It has a great web-based desktop-style interface that is very easy to understand and use . The DSM software is constantly being updated and improved . They have solutions from 2-disk on up to 15-disk . You can find the 4-disk DS411j without drives for less than $ 400 .
Yes , retina optimized apps will typically ship with both versions of graphics . You can easily have a look at the retina graphic files yourself by viewing the package contents of the app . They should be located in AppName.app / Contents/Resources . At least for the Apple ones , the retina versions seem to have ' @ 2x ' appended to their base name , for example badge-info-N@2x.tiff is the retina version of badge-info-N . tiff . While you probably could delete these files , it probably is n't a good idea as it will break the code signing , which in it 's turns makes KeyChain access impossible without signing the code again , for example . As to how much overhead or ' burden ' the retina graphics are , I had a quick look at iPhoto.app ( I do n't have iMovie installed ) . In total , the retina graphics seems to add about 10 % to the total app size ( or in iPhoto 's case , about 124MB ) . I think for a typical user , when most apps are retina-optimized ( not sure when/if that will happen ) , this will not amount to more than 1GB in total .
According to <URL> , an Apple spokesman stated that the touch-screen iPod Nano does not run iOS .
I use <URL> to get information like this . In the right sidebar of every page , it shows the total stats of all the app stores . For example , as of 18 Sep 2011 at 5:10 pm GMT , the sidebar shows : Total Apps Total Apps Approved : 595452 Total Available Apps : 462144 Total Available iPhone Apps : 411134 Total Available iPad Apps : 132388 Total Available Mac Apps : 6939
When IOS is updated the old operating system is replaced . the same is true for MacOS . So Tetsujin 's comment is correct , if less than helpful ;-) . But understand the caveats . IOS sometimes does not delete old temporary files and the file system fills up with junk that is difficult to delete . If you back-up the phone in question to your computer , erase all content and settings and then restore from the backup just created those temp files will be gone . So trying this might give you some of your " missing " space back . For MacOS when a new version is installed ( EG Yosemite to El Capitan ) the installer is usually left on the computer in the / Applications folder . I will usually make a restore USB key with that installer and then delete it as they are often fairly large ( 5GB or so ) . With the Mac temp/cache files may also build up with time and utilities like the ( free ) <URL> will clean up those files and often free up some space .
After testing one router configuration at a time , I finally fixed it . I had to change the wireless access point frequency from 5Ghz to 2.4 Ghz . The option is called " 802.11 Band " in the web interface . I hope that nobody else has to go through this .
Apple <URL> the following Macs will run Mountain Lion : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) So the complement of this list are not supported to run Mountain Lion ( as far as I can tell ; edit this list to add or subtract models as appropriate ; you may be able to get it running on an unsupported machine ) : Macintosh 128K Macintosh 512K Macintosh 128K ( revised ) Macintosh XL Macintosh Plus Macintosh 512Ke Macintosh Plus ( Platinum ) Macintosh SE Macintosh II Macintosh IIx Macintosh SE/30 Macintosh IIcx Macintosh SE FDHD Macintosh IIci Macintosh Portable Macintosh IIfx Macintosh LC Macintosh Classic Macintosh IIsi Macintosh Portable ( backlit screen ) Macintosh Classic II Quadra 700 Quadra 900 PowerBook 100 PowerBook 140 PowerBook 170 Macintosh LC II Quadra 950 PowerBook 145 Macintosh IIvi Macintosh IIvx PowerBook 160 PowerBook 180 PowerBook Duo 210 PowerBook Duo 230 Macintosh LC III / III + Macintosh Color Classic Centris 610 Centris 650 Quadra 800 PowerBook 165c Workgroup Server 80 Workgroup Server 95 PowerBook 145b PowerBook 180c Macintosh LC 520 Workgroup Server 60 Centris / Quadra 660AV Quadra 840AV PowerBook 165 Macintosh Color Classic II Macintosh TV Quadra 605 Quadra 610 Quadra 650 PowerBook Duo 250 PowerBook Duo 270c Macintosh LC 550 Macintosh LC 575 Power Macintosh 6100 Power Macintosh 7100 Power Macintosh 8100 Workgroup Server 6150 Workgroup Server 8150 Workgroup Server 9150 PowerBook 520/c PowerBook 540/c PowerBook 550 PowerBook Duo 280 PowerBook Duo 280c Quadra 630 PowerBook 150 Power Macintosh 6200 / 6300 Macintosh LC 580 Performa 5200 Power Macintosh 9500 Power Macintosh 7200 Power Macintosh 7500 Power Macintosh 8500 PowerBook 190 PowerBook 5300 PowerBook Duo 2300c Workgroup Server 7250 Workgroup Server 8550 Performa 5260 / 5300 Performa 5400 Power Macintosh 7600 Performa 6360 Performa 6400 Power Macintosh 4400 PowerBook 1400 Power Macintosh 5500 Power Macintosh 6500 Power Macintosh 7300 Power Macintosh 8600 Power Macintosh 9600 PowerBook 3400 Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh Workgroup Server 7350 Workgroup Server 9650 PowerBook 2400c Power Macintosh G3 desktop Power Macintosh G3 minitower PowerBook G3 Power Macintosh G3 AIO Macintosh Server G3 PowerBook G3 series iMac G3 Power Macintosh G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) Macintosh Server G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) PowerBook G3 ( " Lombard " ) iBook Macintosh Server G4 iMac ( slot loading ) Power Mac G4 Graphite PowerBook ( " Pismo " ) Power Mac G4 Cube iBook ( FireWire ) PowerBook G4 Titanium iBook ( white ) Power Mac G4 Quicksilver Server G4 Quicksilver iMac G4 15 " iBook ( 14 " ) eMac Xserve iMac G4 17 " Power Mac G4 MDD Macintosh Server G4 MDD PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 12 " ) PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 17 " ) Xserve slot loading Xserve Cluster Node Power Mac G5 PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 15 " ) iBook G4 ( 12 " / 14 " ) iMac G4 20 " Xserve G5 Xserve Cluster Node G5 Xserve Power Mac G5 FX iMac G5 17 " iMac G5 20 " iMac Mac mini Power Mac G5 dual core iMac Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 15 " ) Mac mini Core Solo Mac mini Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 17 " ) MacBook ( Late 2008 plastic ) Xserve ( Intel ) ( Late 2006 ) MacBook ( Late 2006 ) Mac mini Core 2 Duo MacBook ( Late 2007 ) Xserve Harpertown MacBook Penryn 1st generation MacBook Air ( early 2008 )
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
This is a tough one to answer . I have seen discussions on <URL> about just this subject . And if you keep up with news online about such tings you will find that opinions vary from " Chicken Little " to , " nah , do n't worry about it on a Mac . " The truth likely lives somewhere between the two . Generally viruses of all types have a bit of a harder time on the Mac . I run without an installed virus scanner on all my Macs . But I have been working , professionally , supporting Macs since System 6 . So , with care , recent backups and an alert mind ( yeah right ... ) you are fairly safe without a virus scanner . That said I always recommend that you have a virus scanner installed and kept updated . Ransomware usually ( like many other forms of malware on the Mac ) requires that you enter a username and password to give the malware installer rights to do it 's dirty work . However there are vulnerabilities on Mac O/S that supposedly do n't require administrative authentication to root your computer . There is also malware that tries to masquerade as ransomware . A co-worker recently opened a link to a video that then infected Safari on his Mac with what looked like some malicious javascript . But starting Safari in Safe mode , resetting to defaults and then a thorough cache cleaning ( we used Onyx ) removed the so called ransomware from his Mac . he was annoyed with himself for falling for it saying , " I knew better and never should have opened that video . " Yeah that does not fully answer your questions ( parts of 1 and 3 ) but an online search for articles on ransomware on Macs and a search of MacInTouch , might help educate you further . Or maybe someone here has some more experience with it .
These are U + fb01 and fb02 , Latin Small Ligature Fl and Fi . They are in Unicode really only because they were contained in legacy 8 bit character sets like MacRoman , but should no longer be used for anything . In modern technology such ligatures are created by fonts on the basis of the underlying codes for the separate characters , which is what should aways be input in place of option shift 5/6 .
end question
start question
How to completely disable auto-save and versions in Mac OS X Lion ?
I intentionally was searcing for hidden defaults1 and fortuitously stumbled across a setting that disables Auto Save , Versions and Resume , all at once . If you have a tolerance for potentially breaking things ( joke ) , try the following Terminal command ( for Preview in this example ) : Replace with the name of whatever app you wish to perform this on . Alternatively , you can configure this globally with this command ( but beware that this causes slow logins , so not recommended ) : I can confirm that this works for TextEdit , Preview , Automator and Safari ( for disabling Resume ) , but it should also work for other Apple applications like iWork , Xcode , iPhoto etc. . It also works for some , but not all , third party applications . My machine has n't gone up in flames ( joking again ) but as long as you have a good backup system , these settings seem stable to change and test . For TextEdit , you must additionally run the following command , in order to avoid sandbox errors : [ This effectively disables the old-style , pre-Lion autosaving completely , so the sandbox wo n't complain anymore about TextEdit trying to automatically save stuff without your " consent " . ] Another option , is a TextEdit fork called " TextEdit + " , that thankfully is n't sandboxed ( surprisingly , TextEdit is actually open source ) . It can be downloaded <URL> . Disabling also restores Save As in most apps , except in Preview , iWork and maybe some others . In those cases you can use the menu item instead . This is almost identical to Save As , except that you have to manually open the document after saving it . Just <URL> Command-Shift-S to in these applications , and you 'll get something very similar to Save As there too . To restore normal behaviour , run : 1 Thanks to <URL> for his excellent <URL> for finding hidden settings .
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
The company should have an Apple ID set up . I would recommend that this is registered to a member of the IT team who is most responsible for software purchasing . Then they can download OS X Lion from the app store , and have the license . Is there a business requirement to be running Lion or is this user preference ?
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
If you 've successfully installed Fedora on a free partition , the rest is easy . Just download an ISO copy of <URL> and burn it with Disk Utility to a blank DVD . Then , while booting , hold down C after the chime to boot to rEFIt . It will give you the option to boot to Linux ( this is indicated by a Tux icon ) . Additionally , rEFIt is able to install itself to your system without a DVD boot every time , but I could n't recommend it as I had some issues with this personally .
Step one - try the free trial of <URL> ( 30 $ ) . Step two - buy it . These is no step three . It 's that good .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
Well , I like jaberg 's answer , but time has passed and no security configuration guide was published . So , 14 months after Lion 's release , and now that a new major version of Mac OS X was released , it seems that they do n't publish these security configuration guides any more .
The PowerPC and Intel Macs are totally different architectures , so you are correct , you could only really emulate a PowerPC install on an intel machine , versus virtualize Windows/Mac OS/Linux on a intel machine . There are some PowerPC emulators , but the one I know of for OS X would be <URL> . I have used PearPC a very long time ago , and do n't know how well these work on newer machines . Up until Lion however , at least PowerPC software was emulated using <URL> . This was dropped in Lion though . If you really do need a PowerPC machine , for dedicated work , I would personally buy a used older machine from ebay , which would be rather inexpensive depending on what kind of power you need . Note : Removed iEmulator because its made more for emulating windows or linux on a intel OR PPC mac .
In Preferences , select Messages and check " Save history when conversations are closed . " Now when you quit Messages , it will create a collection of chat transcripts . You can easily access these in your Library folder . From Finder , select Go > Go to Folder and type : . If you are on Mavericks or Yosemite , the location is . This will take you directly to the appropriate folder .
While Apple stock OS X apps can not be deleted , you can remove the your Apple ID 's association with the Messages app by opening Messages and clicking Messages > Preferences > Accounts . From there you can remove your Apple ID ( and therefore the phone numbers associated with it ) and your problem should stop .
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
Open System Preferences > Mouse to speed up or slow down the mouse . Go to System Preferences > Trackpad to change trackpad speed . I do n't believe acceleration is native to OSX . I have Kensington Trackball Works installed ( for my kensington trackball ) which has acceleration , and your Logitech Mouse center may have the same . If Logitech Mouse center is System Preferences chances are it will be under " Other " .
Apple documents the open source components for each release at the web page : <URL> Internally , they clearly do work before it 's publicly documented as we have 10.9.2 out today but only 10.9 is listed publicly with the versions .
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
The short and easy answer is no - you ca n't just flip a switch to point all the Lion tools and scripts to the same ( or similar ) programs at a different path . The longer answer , is yes - you can of course replace binary files , and test to make sure all the scripts work and patch any issues that arise either out of changed functionality or in the event that the Apple tools depend on a specific version of your web or database server . Everyone I know that wants to install different software on top of Lion just turns off the Lion versions and controls the deployment with other tools like explicit paths , controlling the $ PATH variable and alternate control and reporting structures .
Is this what you 're looking for ? <URL> : Disable Autosave and Versions on Lion - Setting Go to System Preferences > General Untick " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " . Then reboot .
end question
